ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I welcome the leaders: the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as the Minister of Justice and Security. I would also like to welcome the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members that in the first term there is room for four questions and/or comments to each other and five to the directors. I would ask you to keep it short and firm. Then everyone comes to their senses. I see Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. By e-mail procedure, with the support of almost the entire Chamber, we had asked for an update in the Chamber letter on medication, now that the European Medicines Agency has approved the first effective medication against corona and several are also in sight. We had asked how we respond to this, how we deal with it and whether we are ready for it. There was nothing about that in the letter of inquiry, so I would like to ask whether this update can be made in the second period, without having to start in my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	The cabinet is present, so this has been passed on to the cabinet to come back to this in the second term. Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find four and five questions and/or comments very little, but perhaps I am the only one in them. There's a lot going on at the same time. I would like to ask colleagues here whether they would like to raise that to six and eight. Personally, I can ask at least 12 questions, and then I'll limit myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	I understand your request, but at first instance I would like to limit it to four and five. There is also a second term. This has to do with the fact that the interruptions are often on the longer side. Let's see how far we can get with that. If there are really urgent questions or if questions have not been answered, then I am flexible in that, but let us try with this. Well, then I guess it's good to start right away, given the time. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, it was necessary to introduce new measures last Saturday, measures that we would have preferred to avoid. But last week it turned out that the number of infections was higher than ever, so I understand that unfortunately the cabinet had no choice. Yeah, we're in a different situation than we were a year ago. And yes, a large part of the population has fortunately been vaccinated. And yes, that makes fewer people so seriously ill that they end up in the hospital or even on the ic. Unfortunately, this does not mean that the consequences are not serious, that nurses who have been working so hard for so long do not fall over, that care should not be postponed again because there is simply no place and no time for it, and that the virus is not still dangerous for the group that has not been vaccinated or has been vaccinated any longer. Mr. Chairman. My party had hoped that we could have avoided last Saturday's measures by sticking to the basic rules, such as staying at home and testing in case of complaints, including for the vaccinees, by preventing the use of the corona access card worse and by convincing the last group to be vaccinated anyway. But it wasn't supposed to benefit. This means that we are now in a situation where we are once again being restricted in doing and letting go: restaurants that have to close earlier, events that are cancelled, workers who have to work at home and more people who have to show access tickets in more places. Mr. Chairman. That's acidic, especially since most of the people have kept their side of the bargain. They've been paying attention, sticking to the rules and getting vaccinated. And yet we have to tell them again until what time they can eat out, that they can't go to work and receive up to four people. Mr. Chairman. There are no easy solutions, because all the new possibilities for handling the virus are not nothing; we can see that, of course. We are certainly not jumping. It's complicated dilemmas and it's choosing between two evils. This means that we look positively at the announced proposals to use the Corona Access Card in more places. We also understand that the cabinet is going to propose a law that will allow people in certain places only when they are vaccinated or cured, or 2G. Because no matter how difficult: if we have the choice between restricting everyone or restricting unvaccinated people a little more, then we choose to spare those who have vaccinated. Of course, we will also look critically at the law. For it is not nothing; we see it. But the alternative, even longer and further limiting the people who have taken responsibility for themselves and our society, finds the VVD worse and more unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. There are a number of interruptions, first of all by Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA, then by Mrs Agema of the PVV, Mrs Van der Plas of BBB and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mrs De Vries refers to the extension of the corona ticket, even for non-essential shops, but I assume that Mrs De Vries has also received many e-mails from industry organisations, who ask whether this is really something that can be solved. In any case, the CDA wants to know whether it can't be done again by limiting the number of visitors per store and taking a shopping cart, with a mouth cap and gel on your hands. 'Cause that's what they'd prefer to ask for the corona pass anywhere first. I would like to know what Mrs De Vries really thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	We're gonna get the law. We are in favour of putting a number of instruments in that toolbox of the cabinet and also of the House of Representatives. If there are less stringent solutions, we may not have to put that in, but I also want to put this possibility in the toolbox, with all the ifs and buts that are there naturally and with the note that we still have to look at the legislative proposal. I see that there are problems and indeed questions, many questions, of the entrepreneurs. We have included them in the treatment of the law that is now under way. I hope that practical solutions can also be found, perhaps with wristbands, such as now in the catering industry, which means that you only have to check once more, for example in a shopping area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mrs De Vries chooses to limit vaccinees just a little less than unvaccinated. That is quite a bold statement for a liberal, as Mrs De Vries is. If you already see that children are outside after swimming to change there or that children are already standing behind a gate and look through the gate at the sinterklaas entrance, that goes very far. I would like to ask Mrs De Vries how many fewer infections the expansion of that coronapas leads to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	What I think we should do now is get the number of infections down, because that is hugely high. For that we have a different type of measures than just the corona tickets. That is why we need the measures that have now been put in place. These are severe and very restrictive measures, both for people in the country and for entrepreneurs, but we need them to bring down the infections. If you want to be able to open up again and maybe give some more space, then you also have to make choices: what is the most responsible way? We believe that this is an important way forward. We also believe that we should take a close look at the cabinet's proposal. We are also really looking at the vaccinees, which we do not want to limit too much in their freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	No, neither do we, but you also give the vaccinees more freedom without the coronapas. And since the introduction of that coronapas, the number of infections has increased more than tenfold. On what basis does the VVD now come to the conclusion that expanding that corona pass leads to less contamination? That is not the case with the question of whether a division is desirable, which we do not think is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	I repeat myself a little bit: I think it is now a matter of getting the infections down. Those infections are way too high. They are also far too high to offer more space with 3G or 2G. So you have to look at the effects of the measures that are going to take place over the next three weeks. I hope that we are also going to follow the basic rules very well, because I think that is also crucial to give a big blow to the virus, as the cabinet calls it all the time. Then we can see how we can give some space again in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	The VVD just falls through the basket really hard. The Minister, too, has been in a bad way over the past week. It is simply stated here that we need to expand the coronapas in order to give people a little more freedom. Those were also the words of the Minister. But we're fighting a pandemic, aren't we? The aim of the measures must be to reduce the number of infections. But Mrs De Vries has so far failed to answer Mrs Agema's question on what this coronapas is going to do to reduce the number of infections. Because we have indeed seen that since 25 September the number of infections has exploded, with coronapas. So what does Mrs De Vries want to do so that the coronapas will ensure that the infections fall? What Columbus egg does she have in the top hat?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	We have also seen recently that the enforcement of the corona access card, as well as the basic rules that we have agreed with all of us and which are very important for keeping the contamination low, are being poorly respected. I don't have a magic wand that we're gonna automatically do that again with all of us. I am sorry that we have to take the measures that have now been announced to bring the infections down. Because that is really necessary if you want to be able to use the corona tickets in a responsible way again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'll ask the question again. The coronapas caused the number of infections to explode at the time of its introduction. That's because people saw the green tick for the V of freedom and not for the V of responsibility. We have just seen that; so does Mrs De Vries. How is an extension of that corona pass going to cause a decreasing number of infections? And then you don't have to talk about enforcement all the time. How is the use of the coronapas itself going to reduce the number of infections? I just want a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u17	I feel like I'm talking to Frisian, but I don't think that's the case. I have indicated that we must have those infections down first. And certainly, the corona tickets have also contributed to more infections. But that has also contributed to the fact that we have not complied with the basic rules, that we have not kept that 1.5 meters away if we could and that we have not stayed home and have been tested for complaints, even if we were vaccinated. That's really the base. We are now going to impose a number of restrictive measures for the next three weeks, which is intended to bring down the infections. The corona tickets are especially there to enable society to open up again in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u18	Look, now I hear something concrete: the basic measures. If only we had always followed the basic measures, especially from the introduction of the coronapas! Because we see that the basic measures can reduce the number of infections. Then why does the VVD not want to take full advantage of these basic measures, ensure that they are respected and see what that results in, rather than simply excluding a large part of society and cooperating in a division in society? Why does the VVD necessarily want to choose that, when we all know that basic measures are just a way towards fewer infections? What's with the VVD that this has to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u19	I think I started my speech by saying that I would rather not take this kind of action either. I don't want this either. I'm sick of these measures like everybody else. So I understand people are having a really hard time with that. If we could get everyone to comply fully with these basic rules, I would rather do the same. Then I'd rather do the same. But I just see that there... we can really live in a fairy tale country and want it to be so, but it's not happening right now. That is why we have unfortunately taken additional measures. I'd rather not take those measures either. I'd also rather we just go back to the old normal, that we have the virus under control and that we don't have any of that anymore. That would be my greatest wish. I think that we need the basic measures for this and that as many people as possible should be vaccinated. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we have also taken other measures that I really do not want to take. But it's gonna have to be right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u20	Up to four times, the most crucial question is not answered. So I won't ask again how that 3G or 2G system or the QR pass will reduce the number of infections, because that clearly doesn't answer. Anyway, the VVD is a liberal party, at least that is what I have always thought, and is therefore in principle against discrimination. The 3G regime was already discriminatory, but now we are moving to the 2G regime and that is apert discriminatory. Moreover, it is not effective. We just saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u21	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u22	My question is: why does the VVD really cross an ethical line here? Does Mrs De Vries understand that 1.8 million unvaccinated and many vaccinees now see the VVD as a discriminatory party that seems to have lost the moral compass a bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u23	I find these very big words from Mr Van Haga. We are indeed a party that stands for freedom. But we are also a party that is in charge of taking responsibility. The freedom of the individual is not unlimited either. That freedom is limited when you start restricting the freedom of others. That's what's happening right now. The freedom of others is also restricted. Mr Van Haga always says to stand up for the entrepreneurs, and that is fantastic. But also the entrepreneurs are currently limited in the exercise of what they are good at: just keep their tent running, earn their money, ensure that they can look to the future and develop their business. I know that Mr Van Haga does not want any more measures. I wouldn't be in favour of that, absolutely not, because I think the care is overflowing. But I think you should look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u24	Of course, the individual's freedom is not unlimited. I couldn't agree more. As far as we are concerned and as far as the importance of the Netherlands is concerned, it is much greater than apparently with the VVD. But still! If you're going to limit that freedom, you have the choice to do it generically, so through restrictive measures for everyone. The Christian Union has even proposed 1G. This is also a stupid measure, but it is at least more logical and less discriminatory than the 2G or 3G measure. However, it seems that the VVD always chooses to introduce discriminatory measures. That's a pattern. I would now like to give some examples. Our own Prime Minister was convicted of discrimination against Somalis in 2003. Someone's calling 2007. Yes, he was convicted in 2007 and in 2003 that measure was. You're right, thank you. The supplementing affair has also been a major discriminatory affair in which the entire cabinet has resigned. Now we have 3G. That was already discriminatory. I even reported it. And now we move on to 2G. That's even more discriminatory. I see a pattern. With me, 1.8 million unvaccinated people see that pattern. Fortunately, we also see that a lot of vaccinees feel cheated. They also see a pattern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u25	And what is your question to Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u26	My question to Mrs De Vries is whether she feels a little responsible for these discriminatory measures. Doesn't she feel like the VVD really lost its way? You're a Member of Parliament. You have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u27	I think that my group certainly takes responsibility and does not run away from difficult decisions either. I understand that these measures are very serious for people in the country and that there is anger and frustration. I can see that on all sides of the spectrum. But when it comes to discrimination, it means treating equal cases unequally. There is no equal situation here, because those who have not been vaccinated are more contagious. They can catch the virus; they are more comprehensible for it. They make sure that hospitals are flooded to a greater extent. That's why I think this is a passable road.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u28	This is certainly cross-border. So the people who are unvaccinated aren't really people anymore. Those are lesser people and you can limit them in their ways. This is going so far! I'm really glad I left the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u29	I'll distance myself from words like this. I think we are faced with difficult decisions. I'm saying it's not easy decisions. There are no easy solutions anymore either. We are indeed looking at giving more space to a group that has taken responsibility for itself and others and has chosen to take that vaccination. We think it would be more responsible if you put it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u30	If Mrs De Vries of the VVD finds these measures appalling and at the same time thinks that they do not need to be taken, then she, as a Member of Parliament, can also choose not to do so. I found it very interesting that she just said that people who have been vaccinated are not actually equal to people who have not been vaccinated. We see from the figures that people who are not vaccinated are also at risk of infecting others. They also run the risk of ending up in a hospital. Let me ask you again: do you still think that there is a situation in which vaccinees are not equal to unvaccinated people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u31	At the beginning of Mr Kuzu's story he said that I would rather not take these measures. No, I didn't. But I do think that measures need to be taken, and I also think that these are very difficult measures. Why do you have to? 'Cause we see that the care is flooded and the ICUs are flooded. We have to do something about that. I just don't understand how a lot of parties in this parliament say, "No, let it go. We're gonna let things go and we're gonna be fine with enforcement and stick to the basic measures a little bit." That just doesn't work. I'm gonna get to the difference. I think we should look at the figures. For vaccinees, vaccination effectiveness against transmission is -50% to -63%, against infection -75%, against serious disease -95%, against hospitalisation -93% and against ic intake -96%. Those are the differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u32	Responding to the first part: I think it is quite a caricature that is said here that, for example, my party would say that nothing should be done at all. We have proposed many measures in the past. We say from the very beginning, "Keep those basic measures going." This caricature by Mrs De Vries is a far cry from me. That's what I want you to say. Second. When we look at the figures that Mrs De Vries lists, we see that it is not about the full 100%, while it was our Health Minister who said a few months ago that vaccination is the only way out of this corona crisis. If you list the figures of 75% and 95%, 5% of the vaccinated people may still end up in hospital. Then 25% of people can still transfer the virus. One of the measures that is now being taken is, for example, the booster shot. After six months, the degree of protection of Janssen is 13.1%, of Pfizer 43.3% and of Moderna 58%. I have these numbers from the CDC of the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u33	I hear chambered people react, but it is a question for Mrs De Vries. Mrs de Vries can respond herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u34	It comes from this website: www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/booster-shot.html.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u35	I find it very disturbing and frustrating that these figures are mentioned here. That makes people following this debate at home or perhaps seeing it in the media even more worried. If there are figures, I certainly do not want to close my eyes to that, but these figures simply do not add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u36	This is a source...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u37	They've been disproved. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u38	My source is the American RIVM. I'm here quoting American RIVM. It's a good thing you're denying it, but my point is as follows. With regard to virus transmission or hospitalization, can Mrs De Vries not insist that a vaccine is waterproof? People can still infect and end up in a hospital. Why the fetishism of steering on a coronapas that increases the division in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u39	It's not just steering on a corona pass. I did not say at all that people who have been vaccinated are not affected by anything at all. We just saw that. They have much less trouble than people who are unvaccinated. I do not think we should close our eyes to that either. Apparently, the DENK Group does. I'm sorry about that. I think it makes a very good contribution to getting the virus under control, in addition to the basic measures and the use of corona tickets, so that we can all get some more freedom. I think that's the way out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks and then to Mr Stoffer van de SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u41	Let me return to the beginning of Mrs De Vries' speech. There it seemed as if she was suggesting that we are in this situation because people do not comply with the basic measures, while it was, of course, conscious policy that the cabinet relaxed more than the OMT recommended at the end of September. That was also supported by Mrs De Vries' party. I want to ask her how she looks back on that now. Shouldn't they have supported that policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u42	I don't ever want to point fingers at all, because I don't think there's any point at all. I think we should all do this together and do this job together. Quite frankly, mistakes have indeed been made. Nor have we denied that a number of relaxations were too fast. We have already talked about the Janssen vaccine and how it has been handled. I still think we're learning how to deal with people's behavior, how to deal with this virus. It just surprises us once in a while, too. I think we should learn from that and look to the future. But I am not in favour of maintaining measures much longer if they are not really necessary. Nor do I think it would be appropriate to explain it to people in the country if we say that we do not have the courage to do it, while the experts advise us in part to do things. Then I think we should give the Netherlands the space again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u43	I just said the cabinet went further than the OMT recommended. The virus isn't so erratic at all. It's pretty good to calculate. I am not asking for this to be pointed out either, but I am asking for this because, of course, as a Chamber, we must be very critical and, with all the information we have, we must be able to control the cabinet as closely as possible. But then all the information must be on the table. I heard Mr Van Dissel yesterday say that the OMT is going to talk on Friday about 1G, 2G or 3G and that they are going to put what they recommend on the table. But I can already hear Mrs De Vries say that they can support a 2G policy. Then what's that based on? How are we gonna contain that virus? Why does she support this if all the information is not yet on the table for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u44	Then I can also mention a lot of parties that reject it before it is clear. If you look at the argument given in the technical briefing, we think you can explain in a good way that it is safer to do it with 2G than with 3G, because both vaccinees and unvaccinated can be infected, but the vaccinees suffer less from it. They're spreading it less. I think you should just take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you. Let me look at Mr Stoffer of the SGP and then Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u46	The SGP says no to 2G. We're doing that already. The VVD looks at that differently. That's a difference, but I think it's good to understand each other in this. My question is whether Mrs De Vries can go into how long 2G should apply in her eyes if it comes soon. What should be the scope of that? And above all, what goal should we achieve? Is that a percentage vaccination rate? Is that a certain hospital occupation, et cetera? Could she go into that a little deeper?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u47	I have learned in this rollercoaster ride that we are going through with the coronavirus to mention all kinds of guarantees and all kinds of deadlines. I hope as soon as possible. I do not think these are easy measures. I do not think there are any easy measures at all anymore at this time, but I do think that we should look at these measures in the toolbox in order to combat the virus. I know they're heavy, but I think the alternatives might be even heavier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u48	The scope was also asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u49	Sorry. Can Mr Stoffer explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u50	Yes. Of course, you can apply this to limited parts of society, but it may also be that you take it very widely, for example for non-essential shops or perhaps also for well-essential shops. That goes even further. How far is that supposed to go? Could Mrs De Vries say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thanks for the clarification. Of course, we are going to talk about the law. I also don't know what the law is going to look like or how the cabinet is going to do it. But we believe that there are a number of important preconditions. First of all, enforcement must also be properly applied at that time. But we think that 2G in education and in work will be very difficult to explain. That's what we like to discuss with the cabinet in the legal proceedings. I don't know how they're gonna include that in the bill, but I think that's really hard to explain when it comes to where you should be using 2G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thanks for the answer. In any case, it gives a little bit of a look at how far that should be in terms of scope. We shall then perhaps come to that discussion tomorrow or in later debates. A lot of scientists also indicate that corona will remain among us for a very long time and that we must learn to live with the virus in that respect. That's what I've been telling you in recent years. Isn't the VVD please willing to stretch 2G even to infinity? And I understand that Mrs De Vries cannot say exactly whether that will be a month or two months, but can she say that this should not be something that could last for a year, two years or three years in our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u53	Well, I think I started by pointing out that we also think it is a complicated measure and a complicated dilemma. I think the other measures are much more complicated, so as far as we are concerned, that will be again as soon as possible, really as soon as possible. But that actually applies to all measures. I'd really like to go back to the old normal tomorrow. I don't want these measures anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u54	1G, 2G or 3G, I think we're all here for an inclusive society. We are, of course, facing a difficult dilemma in this respect. Mrs De Vries has just spoken about enforcement. The basic measures are of course very important, but they are no longer being complied with. It's also badly maintained. This also applies to the corona tickets. I am also preparing that law for tomorrow, and I can already see, for example, a huge lack of clarity about non-essential services and essential, non-essential shops and essential. I can't even remember it, so how can an ordinary citizen remember that? That seems extremely difficult to me. We're dealing with a little communication here. That goes wrong every time. And if, for example, you give catering entrepreneurs the choice...................................................................................................................................................................................................... How can you do that communication in such a way that everyone, regardless of the outcome, will comply with the measures we are going to take with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u55	Of course, we are going to discuss the law, but I can already say that we are very much opposed to that choice, because then you will lay down the responsibility of the entrepreneur: does he want 2G or 3G? In ourselves, but also in other politicians and experts, we see what the reactions are. For us, therefore, it is certainly a question of whether you should have that choice in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u56	Even so. Even if you do not give an option, it is not maintained, as with 3G. Then how do you intend to bring the number of infections back after all? Shouldn't something really happen about that communication? Should not something really be done to maintain all the measures we are taking together here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u57	Sure. As far as we are concerned, enforcement is crucial. At the end of my story I will come back to a number of points in this respect. We really need to bet on that, I think. But I do not believe that we have arranged overnight for everyone to follow the rules. I hope so, because I think that could be a huge help to get those infections down. That's what we need to do. And if there's any communication suggestions, I'd say, let's do it here with all of us. In fact, I think that this can only help the cabinet in its communication, and perhaps also ourselves in its communication to the outside world: how can we do that even better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u58	Let me get this straight. A number of legislative proposals are being discussed. Tomorrow there will be the WHO on the bill broadening corona admission to non-essential retail and non-essential services in public places. Then there will be a number of legislative proposals to the Chamber on 22 November, including the bill Widening use corona access card to employees and visitors, and the bill Bet Corona Access Card based on 2G, as well as the law amendment and AMvB Bet Corona Access Card in education (mbo and ho). I say this in order to point out that there are at least a number of specific treatments for a number of legislative proposals that will be sent to the Chamber shortly. This as an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find that the answers given by Mrs De Vries do not satisfy me entirely. In answer to the question why the VVD is for 2G, Mrs De Vries comes up with the epidemiological model that, I think, is from TU Delft, in which that could work, but reality is more than just making a choice for the epidemiological variable, the epidemiological side of the story: it is also about the legal and social side. I would very much like to know from Mrs De Vries how the VVD looks at this important component and how it takes it into account in its weighting. Legislation must be given time so that it can be properly assessed as to whether it is correct, acceptable and legally sound at European level. 'Cause I haven't heard that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u60	I think we should certainly look very closely at all the fundamental rights we have agreed on, such as freedom, physical integrity and also the promotion of health. Because it says in our Constitution that we also have to take care of that. That's a tricky trade-off, because they just collide here in a number of cases. I'm aware of that. That's a very difficult trade-off. This is not a measure that we, as the VVD Group, take lightly. No, I would rather not take it; I really would rather not take it. That's what I said a few weeks ago: guys, I think it's so important that the testing is there as an alternative. But I feel compelled by the current situation to make a choice: either you opt for 2G, or you look at whether or not you need to lock down a number of sectors more or more. In that, you make an assessment as a fraction. We have not done this lightly at all; we have discussed this very extensively as a group. This is what we end up with. We'd like to put this in the toolbox and make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u61	It is nice that the VVD group has done that internally and is quite quick about it, but that debate is already going to have to take place here too. We in the Chamber must take more time together so that we can come to a proper balance. I miss that quality in communication, too. It is said structurally: I do not want these measures. In my opinion, 17 million Dutch people agree on very few things, except that they are talking about that. In my view, we should now start to say realistically, as was done at Buitenhof, that this pandemic is likely to last another year and that we are going to make much more of an appeal on how we are going to last at least another year. I would therefore like to ask Mrs De Vries whether she would like to emphasise in her communication that this is a marathon, even in her language, because words matter. That must also be taken into account, so that we can all become more tolerant to each other and watch this pandemic sing out with 17 million people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u62	I totally agree that we should do this with 17 million. We have to do that together, absolutely. It is not for nothing that we have asked whether we could have a long-term corona debate with each other. That's what we agreed. But we get surprised and refreshed every time by how the virus develops. I wish we could talk about that for weeks, maybe months. They are fundamental choices; I am well aware of that. They are not easy choices, but the alternatives are not easy either. That's a choice if you made it. That is possible, but we are making a different choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u63	Well, there was only one easy thing! But I think that after 20, 21 months of pandemic, we can see that this is one of the most complex considerations, with constantly conflicting interests. But then I would like to know why the VVD did not vote for my motion last time to see how we deal with this pandemic at least until Q2 next year. If you wish, I am going to retable that motion today, and I assume that the VVD Group will vote in favour today. At least the votes are tomorrow, but I assume that you, like me, are interested in looking at this pandemic at least in the medium and long term, not day to day, based on week status or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u64	I fully agree with Mrs Gündoğan that you should not look at week status, but at the longer term and the next winter, and by that I do not mean the winter that is coming. You gotta have a good eye for that. But that doesn't mean that you have to say: I want to secure all the measures now and we have to keep them going for a few months. I have just argued that I think it is important that we scale down the measures if they are no longer needed, because they are all freedom-limiting measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u65	I note that Mrs De Vries is fully associated with this great lie that all these freedom-limiting and discriminatory measures would be necessary to protect our public health. She's talking about the ic capacity we need to protect. But if that were really to be the case, it would be much more obvious to argue for a substantial and structural expansion of ic capacity, which Forum for Democracy has been advocating for 20 months? Why can't we hear Mrs De Vries about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u66	I'll get to that in my story. If it would help and we could do it, I'd like to scale up the ic. But we just see that the limitation at the moment is the staff. We are also working hard on ic nurse training for nurses, but that takes time and it has to be done by the same people who are now standing by the bed to treat all corona patients and all other patients and hopefully improve them. So it's not a magic wand you're gonna take care of for a while. I wish it were that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u67	Indeed, it takes time to train ic nurses, namely 18 months. We have been in this so-called crisis for 20 months and nothing has yet happened in this area. There are currently zero additional ic nurses trained. No recruitment campaigns have been launched. There have been no improvements in working conditions. No calls have been made to the many hundreds of ic nurses who have been cut off in recent years to return. How does Mrs De Vries assess the steps that have not been taken so far? Does she think that everything is being done to increase ic capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u68	Of course, we discussed this yesterday during the technical briefing. At that time Ernst Kuipers also explicitly indicated what steps had been taken and whether the courses could be organised in a different way. There are currently people in training courses. But once again, those people need to be trained by those who are now on the ic buffaloing to make sure that people get off in a good way. Of course you can also look at the ic, it has to be and that has happened, but it is not something that you only manage with a cut of the finger. I do not think we should awaken that illusion either. We see everywhere that measures need to be taken, including in countries where there are more ic-beds per inhabitant, because in the end there is also a border on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mrs De Vries is now pretending that she would like to see the ic capacity increased but that it is a question of incompetence. So why did Mrs De Vries vote against the motion calling on the government to increase its ic capacity considerably and structurally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u70	Well, I don't think I've mentioned incompetence, but let's put that aside. We did not vote in favour of this motion because you do not deal with it with that motion. You're also throwing people in the face of the fact that a motion like this is gonna make it happen. We're working on it. We are looking at how we can use these courses in a broader way. I'm about to say something about the flexible shell. They're looking at how to train people, but we don't have them automatically yet. Putting it in a motion doesn't settle it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u71	Your last question? You're sure? Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u72	It is factually wrong that everything is being done at the moment to provide extra training for ic nurses. Nothing's happening. The argument that we cannot open a can of ic nurses was very good 20 months ago, but we are now 20 months away and nothing has happened yet. The excuse that a motion is not going to make it is bullshit, because the motion only calls for an effort to do so. The fact that Mrs De Vries is voting against this motion and therefore nothing is happening in the area of increasing ic capacity can only lead to the conclusion that there is no incompetence, but unwillingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u73	I think it is very easy to ignore what was also said yesterday by Mr Kuipers during the technical briefing. It has also been said: money is not the problem, the beds are not the problem, the material is not the problem. The problem is we don't have enough nurses and staff to do it. Again, they're pretending it's fun to lie on the ice. It's horrible! People have to be there for three weeks and you don't know how to get rid of them. That's just terrible, so I'd rather stop them from getting there. Let's bet everything on that. It would adorn Mr Van Meijeren's party if he said: let us bet on vaccination. I don't hear that. That's really an important way to make sure people don't end up on ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u74	What a beautiful little bridge makes Mrs De Vries here to the question I wanted to ask her. I am extremely glad to hear her say: let us bet on as few infections as possible. That's a sound I haven't heard from the VVD before, so I'm really happy. Mrs De Vries said earlier in this debate that she cannot indicate when we should be rid of any measure. But I'm assuming the 2G she's so passionate about. I can imagine that Mrs De Vries does not have a glass ball and cannot therefore say: so many months and then we are out. But I can also imagine that she could outline some frameworks for if you wanted to scale down such an enormous and discriminatory measure as 2G again, what the environment should look like and what conditions are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u75	First of all, I would like to distance myself from suggesting passionate 2G or other measures here, as if it would be very nice to scale something down and limit it, and as if that decision were taken easily. That is absolutely not the case. That's really not what we want. I have just said that I would really like us to be able to say with a line and a measuring bar: then and then we can do it. But we have also seen in the past period that we are simply surprised in a number of ways. We are surprised by the virus, surprised by the developments, and sometimes by how vaccination works and how people's behavior is. We can't control all that for a while here from this House of Representatives. I just don't have that illusion. So I find it complicated to say: on that date and that date. As far as I'm concerned, it's happening as soon as possible. I really don't want all these measures because I like it or something. There's no one who likes to do this and keep it in the air, is there? I think everyone in this House wants to get rid of that as soon as possible, especially my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u76	I can see that Mrs De Vries and the outgoing Prime Minister follow the same training courses within the same party, because I did not say at all that Mrs De Vries is passionate about these measures. I have said that I have just heard her speak passionately to Mr Van Meijeren in favour of reducing contamination as much as possible. That's what I was talking about. Secondly, I have also explicitly stated in my question: 'All these costly interruptions are always lost, because everyone is saying what they are saying instead of answering the question 'I fully understand the fact that none of us can look into the agenda and say: 'then it will be over'. That's an advice I'm giving to the cabinet along this road. I've asked about the frameworks, about the circumstances. Is that with an x-number of infections? Is that an x-number of ic-recordings? What are the frameworks? My question to Mrs De Vries, so that there is no misunderstanding, is: what should we send on before you can scale down a measure which is very far-reaching and discriminatory, such as 2G, which she is advocating? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u77	I have already indicated that I cannot indicate with a measuring sheet: then, then and then. You don't want to use it first to get the infections down. Unfortunately, we need these measures, which need to be taken for the next three weeks. I think that 2G is an opportunity to open up society a little more, with a little less limitations and on some points perhaps a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u78	I'm really trying to... I would ask you, Mr President, if I could please repeat my question one more time, without costing me any interruption. Answers are always given as if I were asking for a date. I'm asking about the circumstances...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u79	You may repeat your question, but without introduction and very specific. I think that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u80	I ask about the frameworks and the circumstances. I'm just asking for your advice, Mr. Chairman. If you think "you're not clear, Mrs Simons," I'd be happy to hear it. So I'm explicitly not asking for a date, but I'm asking at what point do you say... If that moment is not there, I hear: up to the length of days 2G. I'd really like to know what time we're talking about. Are we talking about an x-number of infections? I repeat myself... an x-number of hospitalizations and an x-number of ic-raptures? If you are going to implement something, what is the framework on which you say: now it is no longer necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u81	I think we're talking past each other. For my part, I have already given the answer. I understand that Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u82	Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mrs. Simons, excuse me. I understand that Mrs Simons is not satisfied with this, but I do not know how to make it clearer. I think it's a matter of seeing how it's easier to open up society a little further. That's why you have to look at the situation. You have to weigh all kinds of things for that. I can't mention one moment. Apparently, that's what Mrs Simons is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u84	I'm not asking for a moment. I'm not asking for a date. I'm not asking for September 8, 2023. That's not what I'm asking. You are in favour of 2G and you are also trying to convince my group of its usefulness. Then I'd like to know under what conditions you want to implement that. Those are these conditions and these conditions: we have an x-number of hospital admissions and we have an x-number of ICU admissions. Those are the frameworks within which you want to implement that. Then there will be frameworks for the moment you want to scale that down again, won't there? Then there will be frameworks for the moment you want to scale down, won't there? That's not about a date. Perhaps the answer is very simple: a little less ic-recording. It could just be an answer. In any case, it's an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u85	In my view, I have indicated in my speech that this is an alternative to other, perhaps drastic, measures, for example, to keep things locked longer. That's what we want to look at as a VVD. These are not easy measures either, but we will weigh them against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u86	I shall come back to that reflection that Mrs Westerveld has already mentioned. On the contrary, I found Mrs De Vries' answer disturbing: I prefer not to look back, but I do look forward. It is precisely in this crisis that I believe that looking backwards is essential in order to avoid problems in the future. That's why I'm curious. I think it is precisely our job to control here as representatives of the people and to look back and see where it went wrong and where we could have done other things, so that we did not get into this situation. So once again, I wonder whether Mrs De Vries does not agree that looking backwards, seeing where it went wrong and putting it back in the cabinet is essential to prevent us from getting back into this situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u87	If Mrs Van Esch was given the impression that I would say that we should not look backwards, that is absolutely not my intention. That is absolutely not the case, but I do think we need to look ahead to what we need to do in order to manage this virus in the medium and long term and to get back to normal. I'm always in favour of looking back, but I also think you shouldn't stick around. You have to learn from that, and it is not for nothing that we have said in the previous Corona debate with a number of parties that we want a parliamentary survey in order to learn from it. So it's really not like I'm saying, no, we never look back at what went well or what didn't go well. No, you have to learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u88	If Mrs De Vries thinks so, I would like her to do so at the moment, looking back at the past few weeks and over the past few months. Would she like to do that reflection herself as a Chamber? My second question is: does Mrs De Vries agree that we should ask the cabinet for that same reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u89	I think Mrs Van Esch is perfectly capable of asking the cabinet herself. I understand Mrs Van Esch wants me to look back at the past few weeks. Each time we weigh a few things. That is the epidemiological situation, but as a VVD we also consider it important to see what is still portable for the people and what impact it has on the economy. Well, we always weigh that package. To be honest, I would have preferred not to come here either, but the question is whether you should respond 'then I will leave all the measures in place as long as possible'. That's not what we're looking at either. And something will go wrong: you are too early or too late; it is too little or it is too much. That's just a very complicated process, because we sometimes have to deal with how the vaccine works, how the virus spreads and what we run into. So that's what you have to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you. You will continue your speech. Oh, no, take it easy! Mrs Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u91	Sorry, Chairman. Just a little bit longer. There is now about an hour about 2G and extension of the CTB. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and my group think differently about this, but what Mrs De Vries and I think is the same is her comment just now on 2G or 3G. It's going to be about 20,000 infections a day at the moment not helping us get off the peak. This requires other measures, the circuit breaker the OMT is talking about. I'm actually a little afraid that at the end of this we've only been talking about 2G and we've forgotten that we're gonna have to take action these three weeks. I should also like to hear Mrs De Vries on this point. Do you expect the planned measures to help bring down that big spike we're on right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u92	I think they're gonna help, yeah. Absolutely. Otherwise, I wouldn't take them. It would be very unwise for you to take measures that you already think aren't going to help. I'm gonna take what the OMT has advised on that. I think this should be a big blow, but that also depends on enforcement and how people are going to follow the measures. They don't automatically do that all directly for one hundred percent. I'm aware of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u93	Is this really my very last interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u94	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u95	Okay. We are talking about 2G all the time, but of course other measures have been introduced, for example that the essential shops must close at 8 p.m. and the non-essential shops at 6 p.m. The damage caused by that measure is enormous. You might wonder how many fewer infections it's gonna cause. Can Mrs De Vries explain how this will lead to fewer infections? It seems to me that if you want fewer people per unit of time in the shops, you want to keep your stores open for longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u96	I'll look into what the experts are advising us on. They were even a little tighter for the catering industry. They had to close at 6:00. That's stretched out. I understand that too, given the economic impact on entrepreneurs and other people in the country. I'm gonna go by what the experts are advising us on where to take action. You have work at home and this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u97	This really isn't an answer. I specifically ask about shop closing times: wouldn't it be better to extend shop closing times precisely, so that you have fewer people per unit of time in your shop, so that you get fewer infections? That is a specific question. Do you agree with that, or not? What the experts say, I think. But this makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u98	I know you believe that. I still value what the experts tell us. Apparently, Mr Van Haga doesn't. If you keep a store open longer, people will go to that store after that time. I really understand that sometimes things can get more crowded in a shop, but there's the advice to avoid crowds and make sure you figure that out for yourself. Please observe the basic measures. You're not for mouth caps. You're not for the five feet either. Those are the things you have to take into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mrs Van der Plas, this is your last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. I now note a number of times that there is no answer to questions that are being asked. We are losing valuable interruptions. We want to debate the substance of the matter. The questions we ask are not rocket science. These are simply very simple questions that can be answered in a very concrete way. I would therefore like to make the point of order that if the questions are not answered and we have to repeat the question, that is not an additional interruption. I've done that before. I think that's what's killing the debate. What we're talking about here is just very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u101	I'm gonna say a few things about that. First of all, of course, the person behind the chair is talking about his own answers. Sometimes I find you disagreed. Then there is an answer, but there is just a difference of opinion. I will certainly be careful when the cabinet is questioned and I am trying to take it into account now. For example, Mrs Simons has two questions left because she had to ask the same question four times. So I'm definitely trying to take that into account. Finally, Mrs. Van der Plas, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u102	Finally, yes. Same goes for me. I have now lost three interruptions, so I would appreciate it if at least one of them would be removed. Well, then I'm cool, 'cause it could be two, but I'll settle for one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u103	I think that's a good deal, but I'd like to appeal to you and all the other colleagues. Interrupts must be brief and concise. That's part of it. I notice that sometimes there is confusion due to a long run-up or a branching. Yeah? Deal. Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u104	I'm trying to answer the questions as best I can. Apparently, in a number of cases, that doesn't quite work. It's possible. I'm trying to do it my best way. Sometimes there are a lot of elements in the questions that are asked. Sometimes you have to react to four things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u105	That's right. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u106	There is a group that has no choice and cannot be vaccinated. How are we gonna deal with this group of people later? Does the Minister have a solution for that? Mr. Chairman. I understand that it's hard for entrepreneurs, too. They had just started earning some more money again and they started to get used to using the QR code. What support will this receive over the coming period? Can the Prime Minister also indicate how this will respond to good compensation for those entrepreneurs? What's the status of enforcement? These measures stand or fall with them. In large cities such as The Hague, the control of the QR code is minimal, but we also do not understand the approach in Breda. There's gotta be another way. How do we ensure that individuals who choose to enter the catering industry without a QR code or anywhere else can be fined? Apparently, that's very complex. Is there anything we can do to simplify this and to prevent only the entrepreneur from being dealt with? And can we also look at the option of two or three strikes out for entrepreneurs who stubbornly refuse to cooperate? Mr. Chairman. Then the booster shots. There is concern among people around me who are old or vulnerable. When can they expect a call? When will it become clear to the people who received Janssen or AstraZeneca? And when is the shot available to everyone? I appreciate the earlier start. Is there still an acceleration possible later on in the trajectory? Mr. Chairman. Regular care must unfortunately be postponed again, care that is urgently needed. Because even if something isn't directly life-threatening, it can still be very horrible that you have to wait months for surgery or treatment, especially if you are in a lot of pain or live with the fear that your situation will get worse due to delay. With these measures, can we prevent a great deal of concern from being postponed? I am surprised that I get signals that hospitals that do not have time for that regular care do not always refer to independent treatment clinics that still have room for regular care. How's that? Mr. Chairman. There's still a shortage of ICU nurses. This is reinforced by the fact that care for covid patients takes more time and therefore needs more nurses. The VVD has previously asked to make it easier to train qualified nurses to become ic nurses. How's this going? And what about the so-called flexible skin of, for example, retired nurses or people who are now working in other fields? Are we working to recruit these people to be ready for a next winter or a new pandemic? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few brief points. Can we look again at the voluntary vaccination of children under the age of 12? There's a lot of contamination sites in primary schools. What about the approval and purchase of drugs against corona, such as MSD and Pfizer? The bill on closing public and private places is still on the shelf. We would certainly need that to come to the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u107	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. There is another interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u108	Now that we have agreed that questions will be answered as concretely as possible, I have a very specific question: what is the strategy now? Should we send for contagion numbers or hospitalizations? And what does 2G contribute to the purpose of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u109	I think we should protect the vulnerable and make sure the hospitals and the ICUs can handle it. That's what the infections are a very important indicator for. It is one that varies, because we now have many more infections and the relationship with hospital admissions is, of course, lower. I think that 2G can also help to protect the vulnerable more. As I said, it is also an opportunity to see how, as far as we are concerned, you can take less draconian measures to open up a little more and, for example, not close whole sectors or limit them very much in their activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u110	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr. Chairman. Today I don't really want to talk about 3G, 2G or 1G. Today I want to talk about cancer patients, heart patients, patients waiting for a kidney, aunts, uncles, sisters, brothers, grandpas, grandmothers; people who are in danger of death. Their right to good care is under pressure. That's a very hard, painful reality. 'Cause imagine for the third or fourth time you'll be told that your life-defining operation isn't gonna happen again. That as a heart patient, full of excitement after hours of not eating or drinking, you already have the infusion in your arm and that you are told: sorry, there has been an emergency recording in intensive care; we have to postpone your surgery again. You get pain in your belly when you hear that and when you consider that most of the recordings of corona patients on the ic could be prevented with two simple shots. Mr. Chairman. In our country, everyone is equal. If you end up in a hospital, you'll get the best care you need, regardless of whether you've been vaccinated or not. All doctors took a doctor's oath for that. It's from Hippocrates. He said, in every house I enter, I will come only in the interests of my patients. Doctors shouldn't have to choose. That is why it is right that action should now be taken. But let's face it: they are again very tough, heavy measures. Just like last year, entrepreneurs lose sales, students have to take classes from their room and we can invite fewer people at home. Our freedoms are being restricted. And the shadow side of this kind of lockdown-like measures is also known: learning disadvantages, depression among young people, loneliness among the elderly. Let's all get this right here together. Mr. Chairman. Like many other politicians, I also struggle with this dilemma. We are now faced with choices that we do not really want to stand for. But at the same time we politicians are precisely to make a careful choice, weighing everything up, listening to science, listening to the people in the country and bearing in mind the experiences in other countries. In doing so, let us look for reasonable alternatives. I hear others asking: should we not respect the basic measures better? Shouldn't we get a higher vaccination rate? Shouldn't we bet on medication? Shouldn't we test more? Shouldn't we booster faster? Shouldn't we get better enforcement? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I call on everyone to stay at home with complaints, get tested and open that window. I'm also saying, please, get vaccinated. Do it for yourself and do it for each other. I ask the Minister once again to make every effort to get a higher vaccination rate. Because there are still too many people unvaccinated in the Netherlands, especially those 50-plussers. For example, what does he do with the UMCG study that shows that people are still waiting for an invitation to vaccination, and that there are a lot of people who think that vaccination costs money? And will the Minister also ensure fair patient distribution, including in catching up and regular care? Is the test capacity scaled back to over 130,000 tests a day, so the GGD can handle it again? When do all 60-plussers have boosters? Will parents be given freedom of choice if, somewhere in the coming weeks, the EEA assesses a vaccine as safe and effective for 5- to 11-year-olds? I ask the Minister of Justice whether, with the extension of the corona ticket, additional money will also be provided for compliance and enforcement. Mayors say it's necessary. What does the Minister think about the fact that in the last two weeks the rules were simply ignored in protest? And JenV's own investigation actually revealed that it is not going well with that enforcement. Mr. Chairman. For the majority of the members of this Chamber who do not get their information out of the fable newspaper, these are all points we quickly agree on. But let us also be honest: it is quite conceivable that the intensive cares will continue to be under pressure. Then we must dare to talk about how we can guarantee freedoms as much as possible and at the same time protect the health of as many people as possible. Access only for people who have been vaccinated or cured is an emergency hold. It is an emergency grip for the moment when we have to choose between closures for everyone, or a temporary restriction for those insufficiently protected. Because people who are not protected are now at too high a risk of getting infected and entering the hospital. That is at the expense of their own health. And it is also at the expense of access to care for everyone. I would ask the Minister: are we going to make an exception for those who are not able to be vaccinated? Mr. Chairman. These are difficult choices we have to make here. I hope that we will have the debate on the substance today. That is our job, the job of politics. We have to weigh what is proportional and weigh what the alternatives are. We don't want winter with lockdowns. The right to health is also a fundamental right. But the alternatives are scarce.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u112	Thank you. Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21 has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u113	I have a brief question for Mr Paternotte. He was talking about the people who can't be vaccinated. I think that is a very important point. I also get a lot of messages from these people in my inbox. They say, "Joh, I feel put away like someone who doesn't want to vaccinate when I want to, but I just can't." At the same time, I wonder where the limit is for Mr Paternotte. Are we talking about people who, for clearly identifiable medical reasons, cannot be vaccinated? Or, for example, does this include people with prick fear? Which groups is Mr Paternotte thinking of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u114	Of course, there are a lot of people for whom it is possible to be helped in another way, so that they can be vaccinated. So I am talking about people who are told on doctor's advice that it is not wise for them to do it if they hear that it is simply not possible. Those people have no other option. Then my question is whether we can't make an exception for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u115	As far as I am concerned, I hear Mr Paternotte putting down the same false opposition that the Minister also indicates, namely that it is either 2G or 'everything closed'. That's just not right, really. If we look at what the tickets have done in recent months, they have been a catalyst in spreading the virus, especially among people who have been vaccinated. Through vaccinated people it has then returned to the rest of the population in many ways and we now have 20,000 infections a day and more than 250 hospitalizations a day. So if Mr Paternotte says that everything doesn't have to be closed if we work with 2G, that's a promise he can't deliver. He doesn't have the information on that either, because the OMT still has to investigate it. It is also not proven by what we have seen over the last few months, namely that more hospital admissions and more infections follow on from the use of tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u116	In fact, throughout Northern Europe you see the same thing now, namely that the infections are increasing. But there are also some countries that see this happen much less quickly or that do not see it translated into hospitalisations. In Denmark there are far fewer people in the hospital, because there are many more 50-plussers vaccinated, while there is also a very rapid increase there. That's a big difference there. But also look at France, which had a coronapas like we had. We have now extended it much further. In France it was maintained very well and very tightly, while here surveys show that people were not even asked for it in many places, especially in the catering industry. Last Saturday, two OMT members on the radio said whether the coronapas works that the image was in a large part of October that it was barely maintained in many places and that you can't really make a statement about it either. But a country such as France, in which the pass has been kept very tight, has so far at least not needed the stricter measures that we have already introduced. I prefer to have as little corona measures as possible, but let us respect and enforce them with each other as best we can. Then you don't need any more stringent measures. This applies to 3G and this will apply equally to 2G, if we have to introduce it. Your question is, of course, why do you think that works? Then I'll just go to science. The OMT says this could be a possibility. Reference is also made to TU Delft research, which shows that it leads to fewer hospitalisations. In September, the OMT said that someone who has been vaccinated has a half less chance of infecting another person than someone who has taken a quick test. That's what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u117	The OMT also said yesterday: in fact, we need to examine whether 2G can actually work. So Mr Paternotte cannot make that statement at all. I find it very interesting, for example, what the Council of State says, namely that precisely the use of tickets makes people less comfortable with the basic measures, not only where the QR code applies, but precisely in full width. It's really weird that, if you've been in a cafe where you can do anything and anything, you're walking down the street with those same people and suddenly you have to keep a foot and a half away. People don't understand that. It's about behavior. We're not robots that suddenly start acting differently. It is all in the mind of D66 and also of the cabinet that, if you have those tickets, you can control the pandemic. That's just a misconception. We would let go of the strict measures now, but if this happens, we can sort of take the calendar and see that in January we will again have to deal with a package of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u118	Let us indeed wait for the OMT opinion before we discuss that law with each other. Let us therefore be open to that. You have already said that you exclude 2G from finding an option. Well, I don't think that at all is "listening to science." I heard from Mr Hijink in September that he said: that 1.5 metres can be taken off, but I also do not want a corona pass. Let us also be honest about the alternatives. I read that the Labour Party is about to argue that more things should be excluded as a precaution. I like that. I think it is fair for the parties to say that they see a serious alternative, because opening the window a little more or saying that we should all stick to the basic measures is not, of course. Mr Hijink knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u119	Mr President, I am being challenged here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u120	That's a debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u121	In the previous debate, two weeks ago, I and some other parties made proposals that went beyond what the cabinet proposed, for example when it comes to homework. When I started talking about events, the coalition stormed forward to say, "Does Mr. Hijink want to take people's fun things away?" That was the tone of the coalition two weeks ago, so don't tell me that we didn't come up with proposals to move forward and take more action. That is exactly what we did two weeks ago, but then you gave me the wind in front of it, because it would all come off with the tickets. That's how it's been over the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u122	Two corrections. You didn't get the wind out of me at all; I had been through my interruptions a long time ago. Mr Hijink is right about what he said about working at home two weeks ago. But I would like to refer to the fact that we asked the question here in September: what exactly do you want? And then the answer was, you can take that five feet off. We didn't hear any measures that should be there, but that coronapas shouldn't be there. But those corona tickets are of course just really safer than if you don't have a check in the front, no one has been tested and you don't know if people have been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr Paternotte says he wants to introduce 2G to apply an emergency grip, but if you pull the emergency brake, you want to make sure the train stops. Where does he base it on the fact that such a 2G can lead to significantly fewer infections, especially in the light of the fact that even today, in the case of those 20,000 infections, 44% of people are fully vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u124	We also see that unvaccinated people go to the test street much less often. That means it's hard to make up a lot out of the 20,000. Let's just say to everyone: whether you're vaccinated or unvaccined, please get tested if you have any complaints. Why do I think that train stops? Mrs. Agema, that's science. We really do have a clear model. The OMT's still gonna talk about it on Friday. Let's see what it says, and let's take that seriously. I hope you're open to that, too. Science says, if you only put people together who are protected from corona, the chances of someone getting infected and entering the hospital are of course much less. That's why the pressure is so incredibly high right now, and that's what I started with. Operations are being cancelled. That is simply because most people entering the hospital, especially when it comes to intensive care, are not protected from corona. If you have an event...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u125	There is no scientist who is currently burning his fingers at the thesis that 2G or a corona pass leads to fewer infections. No scientist burns his fingers on it, but apparently Mr Paternotte is the scientist here in this room. That is precisely why the OMT is still investigating and comparing things, because the OMT can't handle this either. The OMT also sees that 44% of positive tests are taken in people who have been fully vaccinated. If you give them all access without a foot and a half, then of course you get even more infections, because even if you are fully vaccinated, you can get and pass on corona. I also hear Mr Paternotte talking with dedain about opening a window, but let's face it: almost 80% of the infections take place in some kind of home setting. So, please, let's all ventilate well. Probably more than Mr Paternotte's 2G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u126	The OMT advises the cabinet to prepare 2G. Many parties, including yours, are strongly opposed to this. However, I find it a little weird that you say: the OMT has not said enough about 2G and therefore you cannot indicate that this should be a serious option. I think that's a little crazy. As far as opening a window is concerned, I think we have said together that it is very important to pay more attention to ventilation. That little icon has been added. In the last press conference, the Prime Minister stressed the importance of ventilation and what people should do. I thought it was good to hear that one really extensive time. But you have also read what the RIVM behavior unit writes, namely that more people have just closed the windows, probably because it is winter. If the answer from the PVV is that we need to open the window a little more... That was Mr Wilders' reply in the previous debate, when he says time and time again in every Corona debate: lift all measures. I do not think you take the situation in the care seriously and then you cannot say: we have an answer to the huge wave of infections and to the situation in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr Paternotte is staring blindly at the corona ticket and at 2G, while yesterday we saw in Mr Van Dissel's presentation that the percentage of contamination in the catering industry is 2%. In the home setting it is almost 80%. I think Mr Paternotte has little sense of proportion. Let's face it: if by better ventilation of spaces we can prevent about 20% of the infections in the home situation, then the R comes under 1. That's how important it is to ventilate. That has nothing to do with not taking the measures seriously. Sometimes measures are so simple, so obvious and so at your fingertips that you do not have to create divisions in society. Then you don't have to make sure that little kids who swam have to dry off in the cold outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u129	A large majority, including the PVV voters, have chosen to be vaccinated. Perhaps the signals from you and your party leader have contributed to that. They say in interviews: I don't want us to get back into a situation where there are a lot of lockdowns, where a lot of things are closed, where there are aid packages and where entrepreneurs can't open their business when that's actually not necessary, because you might be able to let people who are protected from corona in there. They'd like you to take 2G seriously. I hope that Mrs Agema will be open to the advice of the knowledge that there will be next week and that she will not say: we prefer to have a winter in lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u130	That doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u131	Finally, Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u132	I may have an opinion on that, but I also have another question for Mr Paternotte. His party leader called at a conference last weekend to close the divide in society. I was wondering what role Mr Paternotte sees for himself in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u133	There are many contradictions in society. If Mr Kuzu says that what we are discussing here today raises a lot of feelings among people, I recognize that. That is a discussion we are having everywhere and we are also having in the group. Because it's not nothing, it's something I like to say that you're right: the choice you've made to get vaccinated means that you're not going to enter a number of places for a while. That's not nothing. But I do think that this division can be seen in many other places and that we should also be aware of that. That's why I brought up those heart patients and those cancer patients. Because, of course, there's a little pressure on you if you really want to go to the disco and you can't because you've made the choice not to be vaccinated. But I'm also thinking about the pressure that's now on the patients who can't be helped. 12% of hospitals cannot now deliver the care they need to deliver within six weeks, and that is becoming more and more. Of course, these people have no choice at all. I think that is something we should also consider. I am really surprised that this has hardly been discussed in this debate since we have been working for an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u134	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u135	Well, Mr Paternotte has brought it up. That has indeed been his contribution. Other MPs, from other political parties, are opting for a draconian measure launched last Friday at the press conference. That's the 2G measure, where you don't have access to parts of society if you haven't been vaccinated. Doesn't Mr Paternotte find it somewhat hypocritical that one day later during the congress his party leader called for the division to be reduced in society and not to do it, and then declared himself to maintain that division in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u136	No. And let us also be: in a lot of places it is now suggested that 2G means that you can't go in anywhere where the corona evidence applies if you haven't been vaccinated or just healed. The idea the cabinet outlined on Friday is that it will only apply to the catering and events, where the organizers and the operators could also have the choice between using 3G, so also with a test, with stricter rules, and 2G with looser rules. That's what we're talking about. That is really different from what a lot of people say, namely that a very large part of society is closed to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u137	Thank you. There's another...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u138	Of course, I have not yet answered Mr Kuzu's question. I just wanted to correct this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u139	Can you be a little shorter in your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u140	We believe that there is a great deal to be done about equality of opportunity. We think it is very important that in this society it does not matter for your chances in the life you come from, what your faith is or what your gender is. We believe that as a government we must do a great deal to improve that. But vaccination is a free choice. It is a free choice that also comes with responsibility. It is a free choice that not only affects yourself, because you protect not only yourself but others as well. I'm very glad you made that choice. I stand for the freedom of choice of everyone, but there is no society that can afford to say that freedom of choice is completely without obligation and in no way has any consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u141	I hear Mr Paternotte saying several times that he is following science. I wonder if Mr Paternotte is following behavioral scientists. Nationally and internationally there are many behavioral scientists who indicate that a coronapas or the introduction of 2G increases the division in society and will not contribute to a higher vaccination rate, because people are only going to put their heels in the sand. I wonder if that science is also taken by D66 and by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u142	I don't know about you, but there are all kinds of things closed and there are students who are being taught at a distance. I also received emails from both students and parents who say what that means to them. There are a lot of entrepreneurs again who had to close down their business. We've also seen the anger that comes with that. We also saw the unrest in the cultural sector when the news showed that the theatres should be closed again. And we see that tonight the stadium at the Netherlands Norway is completely empty, while people had bought tickets. We also see the group size and we see that entrepreneurs are experiencing this. Lockdowns and these kind of lockdown-like measures have massive effects. Above all, I get a lot of signals from people who say: don't do it to us that we're back in there all winter, because we've been vaccinated a lot and for those who don't need it, there should be as much freedom as possible. I don't want any coronal measures at all. If it has to be, it has to be with that coronapas, and if there's no other way, it has to be with 2G, but I don't want us to be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u143	Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u144	That is a very nice answer, but it is not the answer to my question. My question concerns the following. Mr Paternotte has repeatedly made it very clear that he is following science. We have medical science here, but we also have behavioral scientists. They indicate that the moment you go to 2G is not going to contribute at all that a larger group of people are going to be vaccinated. That's what they said at 3G. They also indicate what the longer-term consequences would be for our society. I'm just curious how those statements by behavioral scientists, whatever science, are taken into account in the considerations of D66. If that was the answer to my question, I'm actually hearing: we don't care. That's possible. That's the answer. But if we follow science, this is an essential part of science as far as the Party for Animals is concerned. I'm just curious. If that's not the case with D66, then it's not. But I'm just curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u145	Yes, your question is clear. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u146	We have to consider all the science. I also mentioned RIVM behavioral units, but you yourself say that behavioral scientists indicate that 3G and 2G do not help to increase the number of vaccinations. In the end, that's not the point either. The aim is to ensure that we can organize things safely and prevent it from being closed. That's the science I think is most relevant. If people are very opposed in principle, I believe that they will not be allowed to cross the line. I also think we need to do much more to make it easier for those people who haven't even had an invitation or who think that vaccination costs money. That is something we absolutely must do. That's a very important responsibility, especially when you're considering putting in 2G. I see that countries that have more vaccinations, especially the 50-plussers, do not yet have that choice. I'd rather not have been in front of that choice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u147	I understand, when I hear Mr Paternotte in such a way, that he says that the scope of the 2G measures should really be limited to pubs and perhaps large festivals. I hope I understand him so well. Can he say anything about that? Is that a picture? Is it easy to distinguish between wet and dry catering? It's been a little disappointing in the past. What I really want to know is what purpose does that have? And how long will it take us to achieve that goal? Can Mr Paternotte clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u148	You mentioned pubs and festivals. I also think it's about discotheques that many people call dancing or clubs and that kind of place, the unplaced hospitality. That is how I understood it from last Friday's press conference. I think that is quite logical, because we saw in the disco peak of June/July how incredibly fast it can go there. That was about a disco in Enschede where one person managed to infect 200 others. Of course, it's ticking very hard. How long do you want these measures? Well, as short as possible, of course. What I'm saying is, I'd rather it could open with 3G, because that means that people could also go in with a test. And I think it would be best if we could do it without a pass at all. That is also what we must all strive for, so that it is as short as possible. How long is that? I think it's hard to say now that it's just for this winter. I think you're gonna say something that you might think about later: are we sure? Because we are currently having a debate, while it was said in September that on 1 November we might be able to lift all the measures: Freedom Day. In other words, let's make sure that, like the Corona Act, we keep seeing if it's still necessary, and we stop it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u149	Thank you. Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u150	I'd like to try again anyway. It is said: as long as it is necessary. How long will it take? Where's the end? What's the target? Where's the border? Does that end with a certain degree of vaccination? Where, what's that? That was actually my third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u151	That was actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u152	But, Mr. Chairman, if you pin me on it, I'll stick to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u153	You know, at a time when we are no longer at risk of causing a healthcare attack, we are of course at a very different point. I find it very difficult to define exactly how that is done. I look at countries like Portugal with a 100% vaccination rate among 50-plussers, and think: well, they won't need this. It doesn't look like that either, probably not all winter. That seems to me to be a winking perspective, but we are really far from there. In other words, there have been quite some people who have said at some point: this and this will never happen. But I think the corona crisis has also taught us that the virus can surprise us time and time again. From the delta variant, RIVM said in September that it is twice as contagious and that people get to the hospital twice as fast. Then you actually have a completely different virus to catch. I therefore hope that we can get rid of this as soon as possible, because as far as I am concerned, this is an emergency grip to prevent the country from closing and that you will be faced with lockdown-like measures throughout the winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u154	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a high vaccination rate and a low number of corona patients on the ICUs. And yet there is a great panic. The question is, why? The answer is that elderly people are breaking through massively in hospitalizations. The line we saw yesterday in one of the tables of Professor Van Dissel's presentation is flying up fast. Today's much more. The elderly are breaking through in hospitalizations. In the foreseeable future, we will be on the same number of elderly people with corona in hospitals as before the start of the vaccination campaign. The only thing that can stop this is it's in one week boosters of everything 60-plussers who want to and hope you've averted the disaster. However, the cabinet does not start the booster campaign for 60-plussers until January. Our government prefers to divert its attention by blaming unvaccinated people and resorting to horse drugs such as the coronapas and 2G. But the government doesn't rule. Look at the United Kingdom. They've had code black. Hundreds of people couldn't be admitted. But they were moving fast. The ic-capacity was increased, there were already 10 million booster shots, there are half a million doses of molnupiravir in order, and all without coronapas. Corona's almost out of the news there, that's how I read. All this doesn't mean that it can't go wrong again, but there is a rule there. There is no rule in our country. Operational ic capacity has become even less. The hospitals will be at a 0% volume growth limit next year. There's no money reserved for catching up. The booster pricks are late and the coronapil molnupiravir is not even allowed, let alone ordered. Our government is failing. Instead of recognizing one's own failure and doing something about it, very, very far-reaching measures are being taken which no one can prove to be working. I repeat, no one. The number of positive tests since the introduction of the coronapas went from 1,600 to more than 20,000 per day. It's not working. But it does tear up families, families, associations, groups of friends and the regular clientele in the tribal bar. Little children are outside shivering in the cold to dress after swimming lessons and healthy athletes are just excluded from their gym. There is also tension between colleagues at work. I ask the Minister if he is now familiar with contagion parties of young people and teenagers who are afraid of 2G and who want to arrange a coronapas quickly. That too could increase the number of infections. What an absurd situation we have found in our little frogland. Again, this has to be fixed. Clearly, Minister De Jonge can't do that. Besides, he's not being fair. On 10 March he said: "Of course, you don't want a kind of two-stream society to emerge. You don't want that: a distinction that will arise between people who have been vaccinated and are all able to do things again, and people who haven't been vaccinated and who still can't do a lot of things. We don't want that two-stream society." Afterwards, the Segers/Wilders motion on not setting up 2G Chamberwide was adopted. The Minister is now putting these aside. That's impossible, isn't it? Earlier, during the Corona crisis, PvdA-er Martin van Rijn became a temporary minister. I propose to ask PvdA-er Marcel Levi to become Minister of VWS. He clearly shows that he's keeping his head cool.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u156	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u157	We've been listening for three minutes. We know that the PVV debate after debate, from before the summer to after the summer, said 'all corona measures away' and motion after motion to ensure that. I have been listening for three minutes now, but I have not actually heard what Mrs Agema wants to do, while she indicated last week that this wave of contamination should be contained. I am fine with looking back, blaming and saying that there should be another minister, but my question is: what exactly does the PVV want to do to deal with this wave of contamination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u158	Apparently, Mr Paternotte has not been listening to me, because I have said very clearly that this breakthrough in hospitalisations among the elderly is now taking place right in front of our eyes. That means you need to booster now. That must be done next week, not only in January. Let it not be the case that we will be debating again in January and Mr Paternotte will ask: what are Mrs Agema's ideas? Nothing happened. The ic capacity hasn't been increased. There won't be any money for the hospitals next year. There's no money for catching up. Every time after that, we have to conclude that nothing happened before that. I say boosters this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u159	I also asked RIVM yesterday: what if we want to boost faster? Then it was explained what that campaign was like. Their answer was that this is not possible at all. Of course, most people in the hospital are not vaccinated at all. Then you can't stop them from getting there by boosters at all. They're gonna have to get their first shot at all. So this is a bullshit story from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u160	Whoa, whoa, whoa.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u161	It's just an excuse not to want to say what should happen. Of course, that doesn't help people at all. Everyone understands that only the elderly give a booster and try to do that a little bit faster is going to be lucky that they are also accelerated, and rightly so is not the answer to the infection wave, which is now so high that the GGD can't even handle the testing anymore. So she thinks this infection wave should be contained, but actually has no answer to how it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u162	In the United Kingdom, 10 million boosters have already been put in place. This is where they're gonna do it in January. Why does the cabinet fail every time? Why does D66 still support that failing policy every time? It can't be! That's where they put 10 million, and this is where it has to start. And when it comes to that breakthrough... Mr. Paternotte said I was full of shit. Sorry, but yesterday Mr Van Dissel showed us those two balls again during his presentation. Those balls are two weeks old. He showed it to me two weeks ago. Mr Paternotte was then able to see that 44% of the people in the hospital with corona are currently fully vaccinated. We didn't get the freshest numbers, but this is today's NICE report. Here you see that the elderly, the 60-plussers, the 70-plussers, the 80-plussers and the 90-plussers, are almost at the level of the entire vaccination campaign. So what should happen now? At the beginning of the year we were waiting for the vaccines. That is not the case now. We've got the vaccines. We know how to do it. I'd say do it next week, not just in January. Let's not wait until this gets in the soup.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u163	I think we'd all like to use that booster as soon as possible. I asked the Minister about that, too. I hope we can put another gear into that. But there are also experts who say that it only contributes a little bit and that you're not only gonna be okay with it. So I am really curious what other measures Mrs Agema would like to take, because I also have in mind that she voted against the Approval Act for the Temporary Law measures covid-19. If there were a majority for that in the Chamber, there would be no possibility at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u164	2G is not going to prevent this. 2G targets teenagers who haven't been vaccinated yet. 2G targets healthy athletes who have not yet been vaccinated. 2G does not target the 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s who have been vaccinated, but who are now in hospital with breakthrough infections. Again, the United Kingdom has already put up 10 million booster shots. How can the VVD support the fact that it will only start somewhere in January in the Netherlands? That's incredibly important. In addition, I have just said this to Mr Paternotte, Mr President, with this whole 2G event, you are dealing with, for example, the number of infections in the hospitality sector and other occasions, but almost 80% of the infections take place in some kind of home situation. Only at the last coronaper conference did the Prime Minister spend some time venting rooms for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u165	I am fine with being asked that I do not answer questions, but this is also not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u166	Well, what I clearly...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u167	I asked you... you voted against the Approval Act for the third extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. If that law had been rejected, there wouldn't have been any possibility. Then the legal basis for a large number of measures was gone. How would you have done that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u168	Again, a corona pass or 2G does not prevent these breakthrough infections among 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s. As far as the measures are concerned, we all know that the basic measures are very important. Washing hands is the holy grail when it comes to anti-infectious disease. But in corona, it's not very effective. That is why I think it is also positive that the amendment law we are discussing tomorrow uses the word 'breath circle' for the first time. You may have washed your hands so well, but if you're in each other's breath, you could still get infected. So that's the kind of thing that's gonna have to come between the ears. It's about the good airing of spaces, right in those places where most of the infections take place. The basic measures are also extremely important. Perhaps Mrs De Vries thinks that if you take very serious, very mean measures, it will be all right, but that is not true. We see that with the coronapas the number of infections is extremely high.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u169	In the point that the basic measures are very important, I can only support Mrs Agema. Ventilation is indeed important. We have tabled motions on this subject together with Mrs Agema. But I'll come back to Mr. Paternotte's question. Because Mrs. Agema says she doesn't want 2G and the boosters have to go faster. Well, if the boosters can go faster, that's fine. That is only very desirable. But Mr Paternotte is right to say that most of the people in the hospitals have not had vaccination at all. We know that a 95% vaccine protects against serious illness and hospitalization. I can therefore hear Mrs Agema say what she does not want, but I do not hear her say what she is going to do to ensure that a. the basic measures are better respected and b. the vaccination rate increases. In Portugal it is 98%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u170	I'm fine with vaccination. That has always been made clear by my group and by my group chairman. We have a very divided constituency. 30% hasn't been vaccinated and about 60% has. But, of course, I am defending both interests here. I would like to correct Mrs van den Berg if she says that the majority of the people admitted to hospital have not been vaccinated. The table we saw yesterday by Mr Van Dissel is two weeks old. We didn't get a newer table. As a result, 44% had been fully vaccinated. I find that even more alarming: people who have been fully vaccinated account for 44% of the people in the hospital. Apparently, there's something wrong with those vaccines. I find that even more alarming. So Mrs van den Berg does not know whether the majority of people in the hospital with corona has not been vaccinated at the moment. She doesn't know, because we didn't get the numbers. We also know that's gonna happen. It seems to me that if we don't get those numbers, the turning point is already there. Again, I think it is okay if people are vaccinated, but it is also the right of teenagers or young healthy people not to. Because the people under 50 don't make sure the open heart surgery can't go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u171	I do feel called upon to make an interruption, because we also advocate that everyone should be able to choose whether or not to be vaccinated. But by saying "yes, but there are also a lot of people who have been vaccinated in the hospital," Mrs Agema suggests with the current percentages that the vaccine would not work properly. I've lost what the theorem is, but I know Mr. Eppo Bruins of the Christian Union has put on Twitter: if you take a small percentage of a very large group, it may be a lot more people than a large percentage of a very small group. I would like to emphasise that here. If you have a vaccine, you're 95% protected from hospitalization. And if you don't, you're much more likely to get into the hospital, 33 times more. I would be pleased if Mrs Agema could explain that to all those who are listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u172	On that last point, I know that our Minister keeps repeating that if you are vaccinated, you are 20% less likely to be hospitalized and 33% less likely to be admitted to the ic. You know what I find so amazing? Our southern neighbors, in Belgium, not a distant and exotic place or anything like that, count as a reduction in the risk of hospitalization of a fully vaccinated 65-pluser of 2.9%. That's less than 3%. Those figures from Belgium and the Netherlands are very far apart. That creates a lot of noise on the line. But what I see in actual, concrete hospitalizations is that breakthrough infections are among the older age groups. The numbers are rising by the sixties, seventys, eighties and nineties. They're flying up! The number of people who are fully vaccinated and end up in the hospital is also rising significantly. I find that very worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u173	Of course, I share with Mrs Agema the concern for the people who are now entering the hospital. That's very exciting, because there are a lot of older, vulnerable people in there. At the same time, we are fortunate to see that for a very large group the vaccines are working and working sufficiently. I support Mrs Agema's call for a timely booster. At the same time, we are now in a time of enormous numbers: as many as 2,000 hospitalizations today. I am curious to see how the PVV is looking at the measures put forward by the cabinet: do you support them or do you oppose them, otherwise the number of infections will only increase in the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u174	I don't support the coronapas. Nor do I support the expansion of the coronapas. We see a large tenfold increase in the number of infections since its introduction. We do not support 2G either, because it leads to a very common division in our society and because it is demonstrably not working. What you have to do is set those boosters. Anyone who does not want that from the cabinet this week or next week is simply co-responsible if things go wrong with the elderly in the hospitals, with the huge rise that we are seeing now. We can't say afterwards: we should have started these boosters sooner. How can it be that in a country like the United Kingdom 10 million have already been committed, and they will not start with the 60-plussers and the risk groups in this country until January? That's impossible, isn't it? That's not government, is it? That's a bunch of wankers, isn't it? That is creating a division, against young people, against teenagers and against healthy people, and not just doing what you have to do: giving that booster shot in time to the people, to the risk groups that want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u175	A fervent plea, but Mrs Agema's answer is only boosters. If you set a booster, it will take at least two weeks before it works. None of that can be done with a fingernip; it takes time anyway. So even if Mrs Agema's solution works, it doesn't come through this time and doesn't slow down the number of infections. At that point, I am still looking for the PVV's answer: what should the PVV say we should do extra, on top of what is already happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u176	Apparently Mrs Bikker did not listen, because I am going to say for the fourth or fifth time in this debate that a coronapas or 2G measure is particularly important if you go out and go to the catering industry. We see that there is an increase in the number of infections, but the percentage of infections occurring in public space is not very large. In the catering industry, it was 2% last week. But the number of infections in the family and home situation last week was again almost 80%. That is why I am very pleased that the Prime Minister, for the first time at the last Coronaper Conference, has spent a little longer on ventilation. That is not a panacea for all problems either, but it should not be pretended to be inferior. Researchers at TU Delft already showed test settings last year for what happens to such a coronavirus in a room when fresh air gets through it. The point is that we can bring the R under 1 if we can capture about 20% of the infections. This must be achieved with proper ventilation during visitation. That is not such a very harsh, mean and strong measure, but it is very effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u177	I note that Mrs Agema is therefore not taking any additional measures. She'll agree with me that those infections in the house come from somewhere. They didn't come up from the bathroom. So that's coming from somewhere, because people come across the virus somewhere else. That's in meetings, that's in contacts, that might be in visiting home. Which of these measures does the PVV want to offer an alternative? All I hear is the same story. I love the ventilation story; I share it with you. A very good story, but it is not a solution to the crisis situation we are currently in, not enough. At this point I challenge Mrs Agema and I regret that she chooses the free lunch we do not have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u178	Well, look. The PVV not only has a good story, but we have been bringing it up here for more than twenty months. Let's face it. Take the list I just mentioned of the points on which the government has not ruled. Suppose she had done so, for example, as the United Kingdom has increased the ic capacity, which the Netherlands has not done, but has already put boosters, which the Netherlands does not do. They don't even have a coronapas there. They acted there. This minister is mainly obsessed with young teenagers who are afraid that they are no longer allowed to shop, but do not take care of our elders. It's all gonna be older people coming into hospitals with breakthrough infections. He's not gonna take care of that. If the Chamber accepts that it will not do so until January, then the Chamber will be jointly responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u179	I think Mrs. Agema's story is very clear. I think she's very clear. I note that the coalition parties seem to have made an alliance to ask someone who is asking critical questions: what is your solution? That's kind of becoming fashionable right now. How does Mrs Agema view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u180	We saw in the budget debate VWS that all coalition parties kept exactly the same story about sustainability. I find that very worrying too, because precisely the sharp cuts in the care of the past few years, decades, have brought care to the brink of the abyss and also in the situation that it could go so wrong. But, yeah, if they have to group to do something against you, they're obviously not individually strong enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u181	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is nice that the Prime Minister, during the Coronaper Conference, for the first time discussed the importance of ventilation in home situations. Also last week, almost 78% of the infections took place there. It has to come between the ears that it doesn't really matter with how many people we are inside, but that it does have to be aired during the visit and not after. Good is the term "breath circle," which was introduced in tomorrow's law amendment. I think that is an understanding on which I would like to hear more often from the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS. You might as well have washed your hands, you can't hug each other, you can't touch each other, but if you're in each other's breathing circle and there's poorly ventilated, you can infect each other. In order to get the R below 1 again, we only have to catch about 20% of the infections. Then we can say: together we get corona underneath. Finally, it is important that those who have corona stay at home; also the vaccinated roommates, because vaccination transmission does not stop. What's the status of the Agema motion in custody on this? This is, of course, an extremely important point. If you have corona, the roommates should just stay home. I also think that this is one of the points in the direction of Mrs Bikker, Mrs Van den Berg, Mrs De Vries and Mr Paternotte. Whoever's sick stays home. If there's corona in your family, you should just stay home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u183	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u184	Mr. Chairman. In all areas of care the weather is all hands on deck because of the increasing number of infections and hospitalizations. To get them back under control, additional measures are needed. For although the people in the care work their way around, there are again many people whose important operation is being postponed again. But what measures are these going to be? The partial lockdown touches the entrepreneurs in the heart, but also affects the young people, who are again curtailed in their social activities. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis means that we have to constantly choose in difficult dilemmas. We want to take good care of people in need, whether you're vaccinated or not. We therefore have a duty to relieve the burden of care, but we also want people to keep the freedom of choice whether they want to be vaccinated or not. We also want entrepreneurs to be able to continue to undertake as much as possible. The uncomfortable truth is that in this crisis there is tension between these fundamental rights. Corona demands a lot of our strength and solidarity. We all have complicated choices to make, but let's deal with them with respect. To the left or to the right, we have to keep doing this together. With polarization, we can't get out of this crisis, because of community spirit and holding each other together. Mr. Chairman. I'm talking about the elephant in the room: 2G. Frankly, the CDA is still struggling with this, because 2G is far-reaching. We need the Minister's scenarios and alternatives that we can weigh against each other. Because, frankly, in this crisis, there is no easy choice and no choice without pain. Those who give the impression that they do sell sweet sandwiches. That's nice and it's easy to tell people what they want to hear, but this whole crisis isn't easy. Fortunately, the vast majority have been vaccinated. But there is a small group of people who can, but do not want to, vaccinate and at the same time do not want measures, such as a corona pass. As far as we're concerned, we can't do that. The CDA also prefers not to have a corona access card, but as far as we are concerned, we prefer to have a corona access card and as much open as possible to prevent sectors from closing down. Can the Minister explain why he thinks that the only alternative to 2G lockdown-like measures is? With the extension of the corona pass, it becomes extra urgent to have a solution for those people who want to be vaccinated, but cannot be vaccinated, such as a medical QR code or any other solution. When will that be arranged? I'd like a response. In the technical briefing it appeared that the corona pass is often not checked. That is regrettable, because our behaviour determines our freedom, and also determines whether stricter restrictions will be needed. In the meantime, we have a partial closure. The Minister states that companies will be supported. We also saw a publication about this just before the meeting. Can the Prime Minister explain what that will be? Mr. Chairman. It helps to support actions that are unambiguous and simple. I have a few questions about that. People don't understand why you can go to a show, but there can't be an audience at a sports game. Why doesn't there also have a limit of 1,250 attendees? Can the Minister also indicate what the call to work as much as possible at home means for MBO and HBO students in practice? The CDA is pleased that the booster shot is being used for vulnerable and healthcare workers, but why aren't childcare workers and educators involved in primary education? They are also at extra risk. That brings me to the ic-beds. Mr Kuipers confirmed yesterday that the bottleneck is not beds and equipment, but lack of staff. The CDA has been advocating half the administrative burden for a number of years. Now, yesterday, ic nurses released a manifesto for fewer rules and more participation. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u185	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u186	Beds aren't the problem, hands are. At the same time, I have to say that there has actually been too little action to relieve at least the ic-workers, the nurses and the people in the nursing homes. With just a call to reduce bureaucracy, which is indeed a problem, we are not getting there. So I'm gradually looking for a bit of rude artillery on measures such as free childcare, laundry services, delivery and fetching services and a caretaker who's going to perform. We're not gonna solve this in a week, but we've been talking about this for a year and a half. Nothing really fundamental has changed. I would like to take steps in the coming months. So what are we going to do more than just call for less bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u187	I think the nurses with their manifesto have very clearly called for fewer rules. The institutions themselves are the first to discuss this issue. The call for more participation is also very important. They say: we now see all kinds of doctors talking about us on TV and how our profession is doing. I think they're right to ask for a better position. I'd like to know from the Minister how he's going to stimulate that. As far as we are concerned, this has to do with the employership in health care. Even before Corona arrived, we talked about the need for steps to be taken. I hope that this manifesto is really an appeal to the employers in the care to get this started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u188	I do not doubt Mrs van den Berg's intentions either, because I know they are genuine. Just, what do employees have in the care that we have had to steal a year and a half to get a salary increase at all? What good is it for employees in the care if they still fall down in the bushes? What do employees have in the care that there is not yet any say in hospital boards in which a nurse takes up his place? In short, I am looking for a stick to strike with to ensure that we are actually going to take steps in the coming months, so that we do not have to have this discussion again with each other in a year and a half. Corona or not, care workers are overloaded. It can't be just fine words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u189	In my view, there are a lot of rules that are now being said: we cannot simply abolish them unilaterally. The CDA stands for all the help necessary for this. So precisely this situation with those ICU beds shows that if you had much less administration there, you would immediately get a reduction in workload. On the radio I even heard the example that one has to indicate the patient's condition before starting his shift. Well, there's all kinds of equipment that that patient's following, and so you really have to ask yourself what the point of that kind of action is. If urgent legislation is needed to adapt things there, then the CDA is very willing to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u190	Thank you. You were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u191	I was working on the last few things. Mr. Chairman. That people are prepared on time: what will happen to Black Friday? I'm just gonna ask before we get another huge walk on all the stores. And what are we gonna do with fireworks on New Year's Eve? Can the Minister also give an update on the state of play regarding the 800,000 migrant workers who are very difficult to reach, often also due to language problems. How do we ensure that they are vaccinated? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has a credibility problem. If every time you announce the end of this crisis and that end doesn't come, then... If you keep declaring new means sacred, the CoronaCheck app, the tickets, the vaccine, and you don't make that happen every time, then... If you wait too long each time to take action, so that you only have very rude measures left, then you have a credibility problem. And only a third less so: 30% of the population have some confidence in this cabinet and in dealing with the corona crisis. The SP lacks a story with which this cabinet wants to tackle the virus. How does this cabinet intend to survive the winter with the rising figures we see, not only in infections but also in hospitalizations? Our caregivers can't handle an even greater flow of corona patients. Every day we hear the stories about the hospitals, where perhaps this week all the scheduled operations will be cancelled. We hear stories about ambulances driving around with a patient for an hour, because there's no place left in the emergency room. We hear stories about general practitioners who have to work overtime and extra services on weekends to arrange care for the corona patients. There are patients who often have to wait a year or longer for surgery to be postponed each time. That's the situation we're in right now. The SP therefore wants to hear from the cabinet what the strategy is and what the goals are for it to work on. Yesterday in the briefing, Jaap van Dissel said that the measures taken should at least lead to a reduction in the number of ic-beds filled to below 300 corona patients. 300! He talked about stabilizing the pressure on care. I would like to ask the Minister, the Cabinet, if they agree with this number. Is this the real goal now? Because 300 patients on the ic means a multiple of these in other departments in the hospital and many more patients who report to home care, to the general practitioner or institution care. And the care is already jammed everywhere. Are the measures taken now sufficient to prevent us from being back here in two weeks, because the pressure on care has become much higher? And what is the story for our caregivers who, like some kind of ball-boys, have to pull the shrapnel together every time after this cabinet's beatings? Do they not deserve a cabinet that is going to invest seriously in the training of more caregivers, in reducing the workload and in stopping the abundant bureaucracy that they have been running into for years? I also ask the cabinet what other sectors can expect from the cabinet today. Are they sufficiently compensated for the measures taken? Are wage costs being compensated? What does the cabinet do for thezzp'ers who are now the victims again? Mr. Chairman. It is precisely in times of crisis that it is important to keep an eye on the relations in our society. These relations are strengthened by the government by opting for measures leading to exclusion, without contributing to the reduction of the number of infections. I said the same in the previous debate two weeks ago. The cabinet is staring blindly at the entrance of tickets. That's not smart. Tickets don't stop the virus spreading. Too often they provide false security. The Council of State is warning us about this, too. The use of tickets can result in people releasing the basic rules everywhere, keeping their distance from anyone and not being tested by people with complaints. Tickets can work counterproductively in this sense, writes the Council of State. We all know people in our own environment who have been vaccinated and yet have contracted the virus. I think that's true of everyone now. Of course, it's fantastic that thanks to those vaccines, a lot less of these people end up in hospital. That's the profit of vaccination. But remember that Ernst Kuipers said yesterday in the briefing that out of more than 250 people who are admitted, at least 100 people have been vaccinated. You don't have to explain to me what that means in relative numbers. That's crystal clear. But those 100 shots of people who have been vaccinated is in itself far too high a figure. So let us not pretend that vaccination and tickets are enough at the moment to prevent the pressure on care. This whole division created with 2G is not a solution to the rapid rise we see. If Minister De Jonge says we have to choose either 2G or close everything, then he doesn't tell the honest story. He doesn't know that at all. The effects have yet to be calculated. I'm afraid that with 2G we'll just get another lockdown messed up. Mr. Chairman. The SP wants to convince people rather than rule them out. The unvaccinated is very diverse. The investigation has already been cited. 10% think there should be another invitation from the G.D.D. There are people who are afraid it's under their own risk. A large part is afraid of possible side effects, which may not be there at all. There is still so much to gain if we succeed in informing and convincing those who have not been vaccinated. This cabinet doesn't do that. Even with the high vaccination rate, the cabinet is committed to repressive measures such as 2G. This puts the cohesion of society under pressure, and the SP considers that very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u194	There is an interruption by Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u195	I understand the SP's plea for targeting the remaining proportion of people who still want to be vaccinated. I have every support for that. I am still a little looking into what other measures the SP would like to take to solve this problem. Are the existing measures being taken supported? How does the SP see that without the Temporary Law measures covid-19? The SP voted against it last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u196	I'm getting a little tired of this. This happened two weeks ago. The SP was one of the few parties that came up with proposals to reduce the number of infections and the number of withdrawals more quickly to do more to stop the increase in the number of infections. Even then, the coalition came forward and asked: what does the SP want? I mentioned a few at the time. The cabinet itself is now coming up with measures that go beyond what I mentioned at the time. If only we had done that two weeks ago. Perhaps we could have prevented a doubling of the contamination rates. You know, I'm not some kind of OMT that's gonna decide on which measures to go through or not to go through. I address the cabinet to the objectives it sets. Is the target 300 ic-beds filled with corona patients? If that is the objective, then we have a big problem, because then the pressure on care remains very high for months to come. I want there to be a package of measures that steers less pressure on that concern. What measures are best suited to this is not my expertise. That's what virologists and epidemiologists are for. That's what I'm relying on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u197	Finally, Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u198	I'm fine with it. I have now asked a question twice that has not been answered. My question was how Mr Hijink intends to do that without the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The SP voted against that law. You can argue for more action, but then you will have to have a legal basis for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u199	We were against the Corona Act a year ago, because we felt that this law would give the Cabinet, and in particular the Minister of Health, far too much room for ad hoc decisions. We have seen ourselves confirmed in that and what we predicted has happened. Because the Minister of Health is constantly calling for emergency procedures. That's what we didn't want. We wanted a cabinet that would look forward. That's not gonna happen now. We want a cabinet that is now looking forward to the coming months. At that time we wanted a plan: how are we going to deal with this pandemic? We don't want Friday nights making up what we're gonna do next week. 'Cause that way we're always late. That is precisely the problem we have seen recently: the contagion rates are running up, the cabinet is waiting far too long, until we are on the verge of having to intervene hard. And then the SP is asked: oh, but what do you want? Two weeks earlier, we proposed that measures should be taken in good time, so that we do not have to use the most crude measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u200	My question was about the voice of the SP. I have not been able to enter into the debate on this, but I understand that smaller parties cannot always be present everywhere. But in order to be able to take action, do you need that law, in any form?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u201	The SP is a consistent party. If we were against the introduction of the corona law at the time, then we are not going to agree to an extension of that corona law; that seems quite logical to me. We wanted to set it up in a different way then, and we still want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u202	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u203	Mr. Chairman. The number of corona infections is record high, the hospitals are full, heart operations are delayed, the pressure on care workers is unacceptable, the GGD is at its maximum test capacity and the cabinet clunst. The basic measures are not in order. There's no proper source and contact research. Boosters are given too late, which also happened earlier with the vaccinations. After a year and a half, there is no plan to relieve the ic's and the nursing. Again the cabinet sends on care capacity instead of on infections, which makes it too late each time. The cabinet has now announced lockdown-like measures for the next three weeks. I fear that this has happened too late, but I also fear that it is completely too little. Responsive intervention is now needed, even if measures are not popular. If we continue to muddle like this, we will still be in the same situation until March. We know that from last winter: two weeks became four weeks, four weeks became almost six months. That is why we are now calling for decisive action. In this way, we can reduce the number of infections more quickly. We therefore call for a harder and more decisive lockdown, for the closure of more non-essential sectors, with, of course, generous support packages, up to 100%. It's the only way to prevent a harsh winter. It's just not a fair story when people are previewed that the last kilometers of the marathon have really run. No one's gonna believe that. That also undermines confidence in the corona policy. And for support, a fair story is needed. That strategy is still lacking. The cabinet seems deaf to experts who have been advocating short-term and long-term scenarios for months. So that's different than going for another road map. And why is there still no envoy for care, to really relieve the burden of care and to ensure real measures? Why isn't massive, on every street corner, every place where people work, used for voluntary testing? Why doesn't that happen here too, at the entrance to the House of Representatives, so that anyone who wants it can be tested? And why are we not talking about infections in schools, among young people and among vulnerable children? That's where most of the infections take place right now. Why not go door to door to inform the vulnerable 50-plussers in particular about the importance of vaccination and the need to keep themselves safe? That's really essential. Yes, the delta variant was erratic and a crisis is always difficult. But for the reasons I have just mentioned, I really miss a self-learning ability of the cabinet. If you're making a mistake on error, can't you just charge yourself that trust is so low? Then it is too easy to point to people who have chosen not to vaccinate, or to parties who feel that corona is not a problem? They live up to the promises that the cabinet does not deliver. At the same time, I also appeal to those people who do not want to be vaccinated and to the political parties who are against all measures. Twins are also created by false information or inciting. Whether you are vaccinated is your choice, but make it on the basis of the facts. In addition, take responsibility for protecting others. Protect healthcare workers by having yourself tested and by keeping to the measures. And acknowledge that more measures are needed than at present to maintain care. Mr. Chairman. For the same reason, I want to constantly look at measures that are needed, both at 2G and at 1G. But we are critical. Why should 2G be better maintained than the coronapas? And are the measures effective and proportionate? That is why, as a group, we consider the opinions of the OMT and the Council of State very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u204	I have a question for Mrs. Kuik about 2G. As far as I'm concerned, she has a very clear story about where to go with the infections. I don't know if I agree with everything, but it's a clear story. The SP also always worked together with the Labour Party when it came to controlling the virus and preventing you, like the Cabinet, from always being too late. I find it difficult that the PvdA was against the law at the time in order to be able to work with corona tickets. The corona pass is actually a means of doing more than epidemiologically wise. So the cabinet actually says: we want to do more, when it really can't. In this respect, it is not a means to contain the virus. So I'm kind of wondering what the consistent line of the Labour Party is when it comes to 2G. Why would you be for a very hard lockdown and open the door to 2G at the same time, which is the opposite of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u205	In the short term, for the next three weeks, I will indeed argue for a harder and more decisive lockdown, because otherwise the infections will not be sufficiently met with the R factor we constantly name and the care simply cannot take it anymore. So that's one. For the longer term, of course, we are constantly looking for ways to keep our society pleasant and liveable. Then I keep an eye on those entrepreneurs who say: please do us 2G, because then we can at least earn a little bread, because we cannot sustain the model of earning that is now in front of us. At the same time, I also see the other dilemma. Isn't that too much exclusion? Doesn't that put you off too many people? Is it even effective and should you implement this measure at all? That is why I look with an open eye and I do not say that I am in favour of it, but at the moment when something is being proposed, I always look very seriously at whether it can make a contribution to keeping society pleasant for the years to come. Because that's also the honest story: Corona won't be gone in a month or two months. It's something we'll have to live with as well and as angry as we can over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u206	That's a nice story from Mrs. Chicken. I know that struggle a lot. It is a search somewhere for how we can keep this up and what the appropriate measures are in the long term. The wave must be definitely lower by now. How does it think that it can be properly weighed that the long-term measures are acceptable to society, even if they are longer, longer than we might all want at the moment? Should there be more to that? Does she have any thoughts on how we can do that? I think that's one of the big questions now that we're going through another wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u207	I think it's a very unfocused question, so that makes targeted answers quite difficult. Let me summarize him as follows. If I assume that Corona will stay with us for a long time, how do I see that for me? In any case, I can see that the cabinet should also tell us and that we should continue to be used to basic measures for a long time, such as a mouth cover, such as ventilation, such as taking account of each other, such as mass testing, more than we are now. I also think that boosters will become a normal phenomenon, rather than November or the moment when it takes place. It's the base. After that, you want as little restrictive measures as possible, so the more you keep that basis in order, the more you relieve the care workers, so that they can at least just get to work, regardless of more hands on the bed, and the less restrictions you have to impose at another time. Above all, we must be honest and say: this is not gone for the time being, no matter how painful, no matter how complicated, no matter how unpopular. That is a lesson that we can now draw a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u208	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u209	Mr President, I thought I had two more interruptions left. I was gonna use one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u210	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u211	Oh, well, it's going crazy. I also got feedback on my unfocused question. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u212	It wasn't meant to be a criticism. I always try to give the best possible answer, because it is quite a difficult debate. I understand all the emotions, including the people at home who are now watching or reacting very ferociously. I want to answer the question seriously, but I thought he was a bit of a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u213	Then I'll explain it to you in a minute. I am particularly concerned that, just when we take long-term measures, together with behavioral experts and with people who have a lot of awareness of what things in society do, we see how we can cope with each other. Choosing only epidemiologically sensible measures has a whole lot of reason in itself, but we also have to think about what they mean to society in the long term. There's been a plea for an IMT before. For the people at home: that will look more at the impact. Shouldn't we be looking at that again? That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u214	I think that would be very wise anyway. I have incredibly much respect for all the people who have now been on the line of fire, the people who work in care, but also the people who we constantly ask to look with understanding, logic, reason and figures at what is needed. At the same time, I am sometimes afraid that they too will end up in a certain groove. Can you still look at it with a fresh look? Is it not wise to say once in a while that it is time for others to watch with us? That goes for me; that goes for everyone. Let's look more at the impact, at what it means to people. Mr President, I am almost at the end. No one has the wisdom in rent, but it's clear that we can't get the corona virus down by leaning back. We're not gonna get over it by just staying angry. We are only getting under it by taking our responsibilities, by making clear choices, by being open about them, by honest choices and by decisive action. That is the only way to preserve or regain our real freedom. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Then I suggest we suspend for a very short time, then we move on. I see some happy looks. I call Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of Mrs Bikker, Mrs Simons, Mrs Gündoğan, Mrs Van der Plas, Mrs Van Esch, Mrs Den Haan, Mr Stoffer, Mr Kuzu and myself, I tabled a motion on 16 September proposing that the press conference be held only after the debate in the Chamber. This will prevent the cabinet from deciding on documents that the Chamber has not yet received or that plans are already being leaked to the media to taste the atmosphere in the country. Unfortunately, however, this motion did not reach a majority at the time. Mr. Chairman. The political decision-making process has been the same for 20 months. At the beginning of the crisis this could be understood by the Chamber, but the patience is with my group, at GroenLinks, on. Even if the outgoing cabinet acts as if it is always following the experts and making almost technocratic decisions, the outgoing cabinet is constantly making political choices. It is a political choice to control care capacity rather than the contagion rates. It was a political choice to relax faster in September than the OMT considered justified. It is also a political choice whether or not the cabinet introduces a 2G measure. In the case of political choices, the Chamber must have access to effectiveness and proportionality. The Chamber should be able to check whether our constitutional rights and duties are being handled carefully. It is precisely in a crisis that this democratic process must be in order. Just in a crisis. Mr. Chairman. I say to you honestly that I am angry about the way things are going, because the decision-making process on the corona policy is simply broken. Let me give you an example. Last week, a push message from the NOS appeared. The OMT would advise 2G and also outgoing minister De Jonge repeated this. But what does it turn out to be? The cabinet and not the OMT have placed 2G on the table. That's what the letter we read later shows. Mr Van Dissel confirmed this yesterday during the technical briefing. He claimed that 2G is a political decision, a consideration and not an opinion of the OMT. Speaking of political considerations, we also think of the 2G measure. The mayor of our capital made a wise plea about tolerance last weekend. Together, we would control Corona. And if we now have to exclude people from public life on the basis of their vaccination status, there must be an insanely good basis for that. This is the most far-reaching measure on the table, and it is not easy to deal with it. Mr. Chairman. The unrest in society is everywhere, regardless of vaccination status. It is also not either 2G or a strict lockdown throughout the winter. That is a false contradiction, because there are alternatives. Last year at this time my group submitted a detailed plan on what is now called 'G policy'. We presented a plan to call on all Dutch to be tested twice. This will detect the virus but also contain it. Then we wanted to make more possible with tests for access. But with that course, and in fact with all the proposals we have made in recent times about making testing possible at a low threshold, far too little has happened, although that course is proven to be effective. For GroenLinks, it is clear that this 1G policy must also be on the table. Mr President, then my questions to the cabinet. Why does the OMT not meet until Friday to advise on 2G? Why hasn't 1G been on the table all this time? Can you guarantee that there will be no political pressure on the OMT? Do they also include the risk of false safety at 2G in the analysis? And are you aware that surrounding countries have a lower vaccination rate with higher infections, but that the care can handle it, because they simply have more care buffer? How do we get people who left care to come back? And how does the cabinet look back on the decision-making in September? Did you learn anything from that? The virus is not erratic, but the cabinet is hard learners. Finally, Mr President. I note from all the reactions that I get and which my colleagues in the Chamber will undoubtedly get, that people's confidence is gone. Underneath all those angry e-mails, there's powerlessness and fear. This is due to scare-making and fake news being spread, unfortunately also by parties in the Chamber, but it is also due to the decision-making process. This is not always transparent and open. The cabinet can take care of that, and it has to be different. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish with one last cry of hearts, about fireworks. We know that fireworks cause damage to humans and animals, but let us come old and new, too, not firework again to relieve our aid workers a little bit on that day and the days around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u217	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I will suspend the sitting for a single moment and then we will continue with Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u218	Let's get back to the meeting. The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u219	Thank you, Mr President. The current situation is serious. The number of infections is too high and the care is under enormous pressure. For the Animal Party, the fight against the virus is important, but other interests also weigh heavily on my group. Thus, the right to decide on your own body is a fundamental right. That freedom is one of the foundations of our democracy. Both 3G and 2G are forms of severe vaccination urge that undermine that right. My group also believes that it is not possible to resort to such a heavy substance because your yo-yo policy is failing, because you announced the end of the epidemic and thus brought the final blow to compliance with the basic measures, because you have started to point fingers at unvaccinated people, and that is precisely why you have increased the distrust of the government and against vaccination and because you have stripped the care and your test policy is not in order. Had the measures lasted a little longer, which the OMT advised 13 September, and you probably didn't have to put the epidemic back on that bartender and shopkeeper! In the meantime, you should have worked on reaching people who want a vaccine, but still have questions or fears! Research in the North Netherlands shows, for example, that there is a group of unvaccinated people who want to be vaccinated, but are still waiting for that official invitation or think that the vaccine costs money. Are these people still gonna get an invitation? And are they informed that the vaccine is indeed free? If you had invested in that care, you wouldn't have had to take the biggest hits again! You should have used low-threshold, accessible and large-scale tests, because we wouldn't have lost sight of the virus again! Mr. Chairman. My group lacks reflection from the cabinet on these points. I wonder if the cabinet can do that right now. Scientists point out that 2G is not a long-term strategy. It will damage public confidence and exacerbate conflicts between citizens. The Animal Party joins and will therefore vote against 2G. Mr. Chairman. Crisis prevention isn't just about that short-term. It's also about learning your mistakes and long-term anticipation. However, the cabinet still pretends that the crisis will soon be over. The WRR and the KNAW have asked the Cabinet to stop doing this and to take into account several scenarios, including those annoying ones. I wonder when the cabinet will follow this advice and communicate it. Mr. Chairman. In addition, KPMG's advisors and the zoonoses expert group pointed out that improving basic health should be part of a long-term corona strategy, of prevention. This coalition blocked the planned prevention debate of next Thursday: the moment to talk about improving basic health and essential to reduce the impact of infectious diseases. It's a missed opportunity. I wonder whether the Minister is going to take advantage of the experts' recommendation to tighten up prevention policy. Mr. Chairman. I would like to briefly mention that avian influenza virus, about which the same expert group of zoonoses warned us again last week. As much as possible to prevent us from ever returning to a pandemic must be part of the long-term strategy. The avian flu virus continues to grab around it. The level of risk has now been further scaled. And then I think: what does the Cabinet not understand from the intrusive warning of scientists that a new pandemic can arise if we do not rethink our relations with animals and nature? One pandemic is more than bad enough, isn't it? I'd like a response. Mr President, my final point is the ban on fireworks. Mrs Westerveld has already spoken about this. We believe that such a ban on fireworks will, again this year, significantly reduce the pressure on health care and enforcement during the turn of the year. It is of course also good for humans and animals. Its usefulness was proven last year. The number of fireworks victims has fallen by 70%. The police received a quarter less reports of violence and the fire department also had to yank out less often. For this reason, Mrs Westerveld has already suggested that the Green Left Party should re-establish the ban on fireworks this year. I am curious to hear the government's reaction to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u220	Let's talk about the fireworks. Due to fireworks, 385 people arrived in the emergency room in 2019 at 2020, out of a total of 1.9 million emergency withdrawals per year. That's 5,000 a day. During the last skating season, 40,000 people came into plaster because of skating and falling. Every year, 22,000 people are seriously injured in traffic. And every day a few hundred people with a sports injury come to the emergency station. I would like to ask whether GroenLinks and the Animal Party wish to reconsider their motion. I find this scandalous, because because they hate fireworks, they now pretend to be the problem under the guise of corona. Then I'd say we'd ban ice skating. People are not allowed to drive cars anymore. Then we're gonna ban sports. This creates a much greater pressure on the emergency station than that one night fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u221	I think we say very clearly that it worked last year. It is not for nothing that care calls upon us and asks us to do so again. I find it worrying to hear the following. Here we try to reduce the pressure on care and relieve the burden on care workers as much as possible. We try to give them an old and new one with as little extra pressure as possible on top of the already immense pressure they have to deal with. What if we put extra fireworks victims on top of that? I really don't think we can do that to them. That is why I think it makes perfect sense. We know last year's facts and figures. We know it worked. I think we should stand here for those care workers. I think they deserve to have an old and new one without these extra fireworks victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u222	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, thousands of people are sick of corona and care must go to extremes to take care of them. That is difficult, and that is gloomy. First we bite through all the difficult measures for a while, but with yet another wave ahead we all know that corona is not just over. The scenarios sketching the WRR and the KNAW are also clear: this is not the last wave. We have to learn to live with corona. That makes this debate not only a corona debate, but also a debate on society. And yes, my group fully understands that measures are now being taken. We look with care at the current infections and hospitalizations and wonder how the cabinet looks at the December month. What is the timetable for possible follow-up measures, regardless of the legislation announced? As far as care is concerned, the care staff has up to 20% disease loss. What does it take and what will it take to keep it going? What can we do about recovery? Is there, for example, a look at prevention programmes, as they know in the Defense Department for intense work? Mr. Chairman. So today we really need to look further, at the long term and at society. The cabinet has several legislative proposals in preparation. The Christian Union sees this not in isolation, but also as a price determination. With this we are at a crossroads, where we are not only looking at the wave that is now there or at the next wave, but also looking at how we are holding the course. What kind of society do we want to be if Corona stays among us longer? How do we move with each other and with the virus as long as it stays between us? It certainly helps vaccination. I'm underlining that here, because I think it's a gift. For those who doubt or wait, it is precisely so important that we continue to give them information and approach them, because they can make the assessment themselves. At the same time, we feel that this country is becoming more and more polarized. We all feel that this is an exciting point, because there are no solutions now that do not hurt. Every party that suggests that puts people in the cold. The Christian Union is constantly calling for good information and sufficient puncture sites in places where vaccination rates are low. I'm glad the cabinet really picked up that glove, thank you for that. It is also in that light that I have said that it is unwise to speak an exclusive language or to take measures against only unvaccinated people. It is also in that light that my party has always argued for free testing. For the Christian Union, it is therefore essential that we get through this together as best we can, as a democratic rule of law with room for difference and as a caring society with care for vulnerable people and with regard for all those employees in care. This calls for an urgent need to continue to promote that corona contamination is only prevented by taking responsibility for itself: by being pricked, by testing and by following the basic measures. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely because we have to do it together that I ask the Minister to work with the trade unions and the social partners in order to prevent contamination in the workplace and with teachers in the field of education. I'm asking him to talk to vaccinees and unvaccinated people and work on trust. Place responsibility wherever possible in society with proportionate measures. Let us be honest: that is a search for the answer to the question of what works best. That's the debate we need here. That is precisely why I would ask the Cabinet to look at alternatives. I put down the option of more testing and also explicitly the 1G option as an alternative. Of course, that must be appropriate to the situation. In the places where the Cabinet proposes 2G, I propose testing for access for everyone, as appointed by the OMT. It'll prevent division and make sure you keep an eye on the virus. For the other legislative measures proposed, the alternatives must also be considered, either targeted rapid tests or a choice of 1.5 metres, so that society is involved and remains in the prevention of corona. Couldn't that also be an alternative in the workplace? Can't we work out a test policy that matches the level of infection? This means that you will also make rapid tests more available in new forms in a local or regional outbreak and that you will be able to scale up where necessary. If it still takes a while with corona, then my passionate plea is to do so as much as possible with appropriate policies. That is precisely why I ask the cabinet to work out an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u224	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u225	A lot of tests are of course very good. For example, Germany will now use 1G for nursing homes and has 2G and 3G for catering and events. I thought Mrs Bikker said in the newspaper, for example, that PCR tests are used at events. I am thinking directly of the Arena tonight: 54,000 people. That's 54,000 PCR tests. That is already more than half of the capacity the GGD now has. On a weekend, more than 600,000 people usually go to the disco or a pop stage. The cost is €50 for a PCR test and €17.50 for an antigen test, so that runs in the tens of millions. I would ask Mrs Bikker, however, how far we should go. Can she paint a picture of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u226	That is a fair question, because, of course, things must be feasible. I'm not suggesting this to the cabinet as "that's exactly how you're gonna do it." However, I think it is important that when we talk about a comparison between 2G policy and 1G policy, 2G policy has a high price by excluding a group. In addition, we can see that there are still many more infections, as shown by the study of the University of Delft. At the moment when we see that and we also look at what is appropriate in the long term, I can imagine that you are taking appropriate policies precisely in those places where there is the greatest risk of infection. That's the 1G policy. That is also an alternative the OMT has mentioned. That is why I attach great importance to this being worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u227	Mr. Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u228	Mr President, I did not want to use my last interruption, but you also said that the answer is important. Mrs Bikker indicated that she thinks of 1G in places where the cabinet thinks of 2G. I just mentioned some of those places. I haven't mentioned the regular pubs or festivals yet, but it's a lot of places. That's why I asked the question I just asked. How far can Mrs Bikker tell you to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u229	That's why I already sketched as a difference that you would think first of all of the places where most of the infections occur. You can also test frequently, even with antigen tests. I'll admit they're a little less reliable, but if you test a lot and you test a larger group, you'll get more infectious people out of it. This is also suggested by epidemiologists, who know much more about this than I do; I admit that immediately. It also prevents further outbreaks of infections and thus further hospitalisations. In the long term, therefore, this has a contribution. I therefore think it is important that we explore this and that, as a parliament, we not only opt for one option and think 'this must be it', but that we also have the debate on what this will have for the long term. On the contrary, we must include others and involve other scientists. The OMT's gonna report it himself. I think we'll all enrich ourselves with that if we get that knowledge even more. For me the search is also that I find 2G difficult because of the exclusion of a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u230	Mrs Bikker's party is now proposing a 1G policy, with the emphasis on testing everyone, so that you do not exclude people. Especially because of the latter, I can come up with a very end in it. Does Mrs Bikker agree with me that testing is, of course, not enough to actually counter this pandemic? At the same time, it remains important to keep the infections low. What additional measures does it consider important, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u231	That's a fair question, because if you're just testing infected people, there is indeed nothing fixed up in this world. It is therefore very good that Mrs Simons is asking this question. If you have been vaccinated, you sometimes find that you are infected less quickly, but then too it is important that you stay home for example in case of complaints. That's why I'm hammering: if we want to take good care of each other, we're going to have to test ourselves a little more often. You don't have to go all the way through the GGD when you don't have any complaints, but you do when you have a cold. The quick test at home also helps in this. In addition, I have just said that I fully support the measures proposed by the Cabinet in the short term. I am also saying that we are not going to make it through the basic measures at the moment. I think it is very good that we are working more at home and that we are limiting the number of meetings. I would also like to give my wholehearted support to the cabinet on these points, because unfortunately I do not see any other options at this time either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u232	I am very pleased with this answer. However, in the policy and the legislative proposal, there is still talk of mitigation. So we accept that infections will occur, albeit on a smaller scale. Then I wonder if Mrs Bikker agrees with me on the following point. If you're just testing, you know something about the number of infections, but you're not actually stopping the virus yet. I wonder if Mrs Bikker thinks that you should take an active decision and say: we are going to actively reduce the virus, curb it, and that calls for a change of strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u233	Any expert who asks you how we can contain this virus will be the first to say, "View of the virus." It starts with testing anyway. At the same time, I also know that if people are infected, more measures are needed to prevent them from infecting another. That's about the meeting moments, for example. Of this, my view is that this starts first with our own behaviour. At a time when there are a lot of infections, we need to realize that you have to keep a foot and a foot and wear your mouth cap. In the Netherlands we have been ill-advised with each other. I can at least look at myself; perhaps I was too happy when the measures were scaled down and then we can look around. Of course you can watch that. That's important, too. But keep that urgency and let's talk to each other about the behavior. I notice it myself: when I'm in the elevator with six people, I also find it complicated to get out because the elevator is too full. But we have to get that logic back. If we're gonna protect each other, we're gonna start thinking for ourselves. It also starts with, for example, taking responsibility as a supervisor in an organisation. In this way, I think that we should also take the first important steps properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u234	I think it would be appropriate first of all to compliment Mrs Bikker, because I understand that she is under much greater pressure than many other parties here in the Chamber. It is very good that you do not set the blinders, but keep thinking about alternatives. I'd like to make that compliment. Then the question, about 1G in the workplace. Of course, I've seen something come along. I understand that Mrs Bikker is talking, for example, about slaughterhouses, where there is a good chance that you will infect each other there. But are we talking, for example, about supermarkets and customers there? Are we also talking about the local engineering agency? Can Mrs Bikker say a little more about what she sees about lockdown on the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u235	That's a very fair question. Of course I don't want you hunting for a cotton swab for everything. That won't be necessary. On the contrary, I want us to focus on ensuring that the risks are reduced as close and as easily as possible. A slaughterhouse is a place where people work in a cool place and where people are close to each other. That's a place where there's more risk. We have seen that setting up a rapid test street by an employer is extremely helpful. I can also imagine such things at a factory, where your man stands on the assembly line. I think that an employer can absolutely think about what he can do to ensure the safety of his employees. That's different from the fact that we unnecessarily hinder people in public life. That's a weighting. It is a search that we are going through together and in which I think it is important that we ensure that we try to get through this as much as possible as one society. Besides, sometimes you have to suspend your judgment on how annoying someone else is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u236	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u237	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u238	Oh, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u239	I assume that Mrs Bikker will present the cabinet shortly to allow the OMT to weigh her 1G proposal. At least, I can imagine. I can, of course, support that request. I can see hooks and eyes. But I'd like to know exactly what's going on here. I said, with all sorts of critical notes, I keep my eyes open for 2G. Does that also apply to Mrs Bikker or is that path closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u240	I'm not putting this proposal down for nothing because I think it's a less restrictive way. I think it is more of a society-oriented solution, which I really hope can contribute. Mrs Kuiken also knows the Christian Union's vision in recent debates on 2G, but the legal treatment is only then and not at the moment. I therefore really hope that the cabinet will do justice to my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u241	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u242	It's no big deal, but this is not an answer to my question. Everyone here must indicate quite clearly which weighting is being made. Then I think it's fair to make it clear whether you're really keeping 2G open or that this is closed anyway. Both are an honest answer. I've stuck my neck out saying, "I'm very critical, but I'm not shutting it down yet." I'm fairly attacked by all kinds of people, and that makes sense. But I also think you should know from a formation party, a coalition party, that that road is still open. Or has the 1G proposal been definitively closed? Both are an honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u243	I hope that every answer I give is an honest answer. It is quite clear that there is a fundamental objection for the Christian Union in 2G, because this excludes people. At the same time, in this crisis, I have had a lot of times when I thought: well, but I will never experience that. We see how the virus has evolved and how the infection has increased. That also means that I find it increasingly difficult to say: this absolutely never does not. But at the same time, my quest is also how we get through this as a society without sending further on to division while we do ensure that we get the number of infections down. I'm making a genuine effort to do that. I hope that Mrs Kuiken will consider this answer to be fair, because this is what I can say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u244	For the CDA, the whole 2G discussion is a huge struggle. We are going to discuss this in detail as a group. You also want to avoid polarization. You just want us to be a community together. How does Mrs Bikker think people who have been vaccinated respond to this? They think: now I've done a lot of things, but now I still have to take that test. I ask this because Mrs Bikker also talks about work situations. Look, going to an event once a week is a little different from what Mrs Bikker says, because then you have to undergo it every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u245	I would certainly not suggest that anyone who goes to work should be tested every day. I'm just saying, the moment there's an infection scare at work, I can imagine you're doing something like that, also to protect each other and also because I know enough vaccinated people who just have a really ugly flu to catch. They have corona, but it feels like a very ugly group. They also feel annoying because they have infected people in their environment. That's not what we're talking about most. It is very logical that we look at hospitals and we have a lot of concerns about people who are unvaccinated and who are therefore at great risk. But it is the honest view of this society, in which we see that corona simply causes a lot of disease. We will also have to look at this together when we look at what corona means in the long term, including for the future in society. When I look at a 2G decision, it's not just a decision for the next winter. That is precisely why it is also a quest for me which is a sustainable policy, even in the long term, and also when we look at the WRR scenarios of which waves will come. We don't know exactly, but we have to relate to how we stay a society in which we do it together, in which we hang out, in which we keep it together. How do we maintain a democratic rule of law, in which we maintain as much of our freedoms as possible? That is the search for an appropriate policy without wanting to test too much, but precisely to get a view of the virus in the places where it is needed. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Actually, this is totally in line with this. There is no golden formula, and I'm realistic about that. I don't want to suggest that here either. However, I think it is important that we have a good debate on what appropriate solutions are and that we, as a parliament, make a choice that contributes to a stable course of action for the longer term. I wish the cabinet a great deal of wisdom and I look forward to seeing their plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u246	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren. At least you have two fans in the room, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Today I speak not of paper, but directly from my heart. My heart weeps when I think of the children who after swimming lessons need to be dried out outside in the cold because access to the pool is forbidden for unvaccinated. My heart also weeps when I think of the children who were told last weekend that they were not allowed to go to the entrance of Saint Nicholas, because that entry is also forbidden for unvaccinated people. What does the outgoing Prime Minister say to these children? Who's sweet gets tasty, who's naughty is the rod? When I think of the parents who are afraid to send their children to school because their children are constantly exposed to indoctrination and can arrive at the school square at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u248	An interruption by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u249	In the first two sentences it goes wrong twice already. Because access to the pool is not prohibited at all and it is not the cabinet's plan to do so either. You can just take a test and you can also say you don't want to do it. We know about the sinterklaas parade in Zwolle by now and we have seen that this was nonsense. It was full. There were parents who were late picking up the free ticket and because it was too full people couldn't get in. That had nothing to do with the QR code. I am surprised, moreover, that Mr Baudet is not doing this debate himself, because he said earlier this week that unvaccinated people are the new Jews. My family's from Amsterdam. In Amsterdam more than 100,000 Jews lived before the war and after the war there were only 15,000. I would like to ask Mr Van Meijeren with the greatest urgency. I have seen all these Jewish organizations to not compare corona measures with the holocaust, with the biggest scandal in Europe's history, with the murder of 6 million people. Don't do it. I'd like to ask him not to today either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u250	First of all, on the point that Mr Paternotte makes that access is not prohibited for unvaccinated people, in the sense of: well, you can still get tested. It may be a theoretical possibility for unvaccinated people to have access on paper, but in practice it does work out that unvaccinated people are excluded. 'Cause it's not that easy to get tested at all. If I wanted to have a drink after this debate, I would now have to make a test speech. I won't be able to make it today. I should do that every 24 hours if I want to live my life in a normal way. It is completely unacceptable... that is the more fundamental point.. to demand at all from perfectly healthy people who have no complaints at all and are not at all at risk if they are already infected with corona, that they have their physical integrity humiliated every 24 hours with those horrible PCR tests that do not even work at all and to make that mandatory to lead a normal life. Under the guise of the so-called 3G policy, there has already been indirect discrimination, but today, of course, it is also about the plans to introduce a 2G policy. And that argument is no longer valid at all, because that is direct discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u251	I'd like to ask you to answer a little bit shorter. A few more questions have been asked to which you can respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u252	There was a second aspect in the question. Mr Paternotte urged me not to compare the corona measures with the holocaust. A great lie, because we have never compared the corona measures currently in force with the holocaust. We have warned that, for the first time since the Second World War, a state of apartheid is being created, a state in which people are discriminated against and excluded from social life. We warn against it, looking at history, where this can lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u253	Thank you. Clear. Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u254	The fact that this story is constantly inconsistent shows that almost everyone agrees on it, otherwise Mr Van Meijeren's party, long before the pandemic broke out, would not have been guided by countries where people are being tortured, people without going to court and whose freedom of expression is restricted, as in Russia. You're inconsistent. You'll bring World War II in structuralally. I have a lot of Jewish friends who are getting sick of it. So stop that sham and just admit it: you feel limited and that's why you're calling World War II. That's the only reason you do that. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u255	I would like to appeal to all colleagues. There has now been an exchange of views on the Second World War and the comparison. Today we are talking about measures. So it also requires some of us to confine ourselves to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u256	I would like to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u257	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u258	Again, you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u259	Mrs. Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u260	Mrs Gündoğan says that we are constantly calling for the Second World War. Well, I'm constantly hearing other speakers calling for World War II. I maintain, as I have said many times, that many aspects are very much reminiscent of what happened in the 1930s. If we want to prevent this from happening again, it is essential that we warn about this, so that we do not make the same mistake again. With regard to the situation in other countries where there are appalling circumstances, I find that very annoying, but I have been elected as a Dutch representative, so I focus primarily on the interests of all Dutch people. If we have solved the problems here and live in a free democratic society again, then I can always consider solving the problems in other countries, but that is not what I was elected for and what is also not my job at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u261	I would just like to point out a factual error. Mr Van Meijeren mixed up the GGD tests and tests for access. If he wants to have a drink tonight, he can go to six different locations tonight to get a test done. So that's just possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u262	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u263	Well, I'm getting plenty of stories from people who show that it's absolutely nothing to get you tested for access as quickly as possible. Again, it is absurd at all to demand that people be tested for access. I'm perfectly healthy. I have a well-functioning immune system. I can prove it and prove it. And I'm not waiting for a situation where I have to prove that I'm healthy. That's the upside-down world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u264	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u265	These horrible, degrading, humiliating, freedom-limiting measures currently in force are all based on that great, comprehensive lie that those measures would be necessary to protect our public health. A lie so great that many people do not want or can believe that the truth is so violent. The big lie that a vaccine would get us out of this crisis. Demissionary Minister De Jonge tweeted lyrical: shot by shot we get our freedoms back. A 70% vaccination rate would be sufficient. According to official figures 85% have been vaccinated and even 95% have antibodies and we still do not have our freedoms back. Where does this policy go? There is no longer any prospect of getting our freedoms back. It was equally tempting to keep a story here again today in which I list numerous facts showing that this has nothing to do with public health, such as the deadlyness of the virus that is not much higher than a normal flu, the PCR tests that are not working and that the 2G policy is not based on any scientific evidence, but unfortunately I have to note that facts seem less and less important. And that is the result of this constant propaganda, this horrible propaganda that is being rolled out over and over again over and over again, those one-sided systematic views and beliefs that are being preached in which all dissenting opinions are suspected or even banned and where opposition demonstrations are being knocked down. There is also talk of responding to anxiety and constantly spreading confusion, so that people at some point don't even know what to believe and then cling to the government. Thus, step by step, we are being messed up that totalitarian control state that Forum for Democracy has been warning us about for over a year and a half. A state where opponents are silenced, in which the government controls every fibre of society and even penetrates our healthy bodies with experimental gene therapy whose long-term side effects have not even been investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u266	Let me finish your story and I will give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u267	We will, of course, always be referring to the facts. Because even if the lie is so fast, the truth will. We can also see that, because more and more people are seeing that this whole policy is based on lies. I also call on everyone to stop obeying this totalitarian society as soon as possible, these absurd rules, as well as all the parties here in the Chamber: follow your heart and stand on the right side of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u268	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u269	The people who are opposed to the Corona policy have not yet been allowed to hold any demonstration at the time when this could be done. There hasn't been a single moment when terrible war equations, even in this house, couldn't be made. There hasn't been a single moment when you couldn't say what you wanted. And every time you're so brave, so tough, and you've got the guts to bring the war in. But here's what I'm asking you. If care workers ask you to protect them and keep them up, do you have the nerve to put a cotton swab in your nose? How can you be so tough and have so much guts but be too cowardly to grab a cotton swab? Explain that to me. Secondly, if you are so concerned about care and you are genuinely in favour of them, why do you not listen in any way to what they need, do you not even acknowledge that and can we not expect any proposals from you to help them in this debate? Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u270	Mr President, you have asked me to respond briefly to interruptions, but I hear so many inaccuracies and disinformation that I need just a moment to refute all of this. First of all, this bizarre lie that there would be no demonstrations against corona policy. That is actually the case. There are numerous demonstrations banned for the sole reason that the 1.5 meters could not be observed. This while not one infection can be traced back to demonstrations in the outdoors. With regard to this reproach about the Second World War, I think it is a striking comparison that is becoming more striking every day. So when I consider that useful, I will continue to make it to warn of a situation that we all do not want and to prevent history from repeating itself. As regards the pressure on care, as early as February 2020, more than 20 months ago, the Forum for Democracy advocated a structural increase in ic capacity. A majority in this Chamber is simply voting against it. They just don't want it. They want this pressure on care to remain high in order to continue to implement these repressive measures. So if it were such a big problem for the care, it wouldn't be necessary at all to put healthy people's cotton bars in their noses, to speak in your words. We have never asked that of healthy people in the last thousands of years, and yet we have been able to beat many thousands of viruses very well. So under no circumstances am I going to be tested or vaccinated for care. If you wanted to increase care capacity, you could have done it in the last 20 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u271	Thank you. This brings you to the end of your contribution. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u272	Thank you. "This is not the first wave, but the sixth wave or the seventh wave. Do you remember the count, because I've lost count?" That was how I spoke to a journalist last Sunday who agreed that he also lost count. It was significant that we both didn't remember and that we lost count, because every wave looks like the previous one. It is too late and too little action is being taken, but above all it is not enough to learn from the previous waves. I am looking mainly at the cabinet on this issue, but I am also looking at us as a Chamber, especially those who trivialise this crisis and disseminate disinformation, but also those who are not critical of the policy which makes every motion to amend this policy virtually impossible. In this way, we ourselves hollow out the last piece of dualism in the Chamber. Then perhaps that new governance culture is as far away as an exit from this pandemic. Then I have some points on which I would like a response from the cabinet. Because I prefer to look forward and be constructive. One. Send on infections, preferably up to 4,000 infections a day. Only when we're under there can we think about relaxing. Two. The discussion on 2G is an essential discussion and should not take place between the nose and the lips. Without an open dialogue and a decent discussion with a proper balance between epidemiological, legal and social aspects, we will not be able to achieve this. This is a great choice, which deserves a great debate. For now, get the base in order first. So, among other things, ensure that the basic measures are respected and that the QR system becomes waterproof. Three. The mRNA vaccines. These are synthesized. This means that the RNA part can be adjusted. This also means that mRNA vaccines can be adapted to the delta variant. This must also be done quickly, given the great danger of delta in the longer term. How far are the producers with this? Four. Work on a plan up to at least Q2 next year. I will therefore retable my motion on this matter. Make different scenarios, too. Work with a stop-lamp system. Connect those to the associated contagion numbers and stick to them. Where, for example, have the roadmaps gone? Five. The boosters. I am still surprised that despite the fact that many European countries do combine the booster with a flu shot, we do not want to combine it. Why do we build an extra horde, when science thinks this combination is justified and time is not exactly our friend? Six. Come up with a plan for the schools. It is an illusion to leave responsibility to the schools themselves. After all, they are already short-handed. Therefore help them, if they have to close already, to close last and be the first to open again, and of course not to close at all. Clear guidelines are a prerequisite. Seven. Vaccinate the world. We're not safe until the world is safe. So work must be done, but really must be done, to raise the production capacity and release the patents. Eight and the most urgent. What is likely to happen within now and two weeks is a total care infarction. Yesterday I received the following app from epidemiologist Dennis Mook from the LUMC: "The seven-day average increase in hospital occupancy is 60 per day and rising. The current occupation is 1,985. At about 2,800 to 3,000 there is a complete infarct. We are now 850 patients from there, or 14 days, if not before." Today, the influx was 267. So we have less than 600 left. The health care infarction may not be complete yet, but it is completely opposed. The situation is threatening and now requires the greatest attention and, above all, a solution. What about the plan to help the more than 200,000 Dutch people who are waiting for an operation? I would like to get a response on all these points. I actually want to say something about this Pfizerpil, because I just got back from another epidemiologist that it is not working enough. So we shouldn't start thinking these Pfizer pills are gonna help the world. We really need to bet on vaccinating. That really works significantly better to protect people from this virus. So I just heard this from one of the best epidemiologists in this country. That is why I would also like to say that we should not be tempted to be a less resource for the rest of the world. Finally, Mr President. Support, communication and strategy are closely linked. Basic measures, compliance and enforcement are also linked to this. I am very disappointed, but I am always looking for solutions. While the north of Europe has a strategy of controlling infections, seducing vaccination and responsibility, and the south uses the root-and-stick approach to be strict on compliance and enforcement, these countries have one thing in common: they communicate clearly. In the north more from understanding and responsibility, in the south more from necessity and enforcement. It is mainly coherent and consistent. But we have not only jojo policy in the corona approach, but also jojo communication, while the KISS principle, "keep it simple, stupid," must now be the condition. Let us make information more active rather than passive. In some cities, general practitioners themselves take the initiative to enter the district. Can we also take small steps, such as drawing people's attention to compliance with the measures through broadcasting systems at stations? I'd like a reaction to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u273	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. After the first term on the side of the Chamber there is a dinner suspension of 45 minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I haven't been so worried in ages. The sounds from the healthcare sector are crystal clear. Images of ambulances waiting over an hour in the ambulance hall, with the patient still in the back, simply because there's no place on the emergency room. Irresponsible situations with patients who receive only high amounts of oxygen in the department, because there is no place on the ic. Signals from all parts of the country that not only the ic, but also the regular department will be full. Earlier I said that my party only sees a lockdown as a last resort. That's still true, but with the approaching code black, this drug seems to be getting closer every day. For this reason, I would like to make a number of other points which deserve more attention in this debate. For days now, the media has been talking about nothing but the option of 2G. Of course, this is a very fundamental debate, which is about an ethical balance that we have not had to make before. Of course, that needs to be properly discussed. My group has taken a clear position on this. But whether parties are fundamentally in favour of this or against it, we will all agree that, in particular, we need to get the medical side of the story in order. That side is very simple: with almost 20,000 infections a day, 2G is not going to offer any relief. Even if all catering establishments are suddenly going to check the QR-code, the current healthcare infarct will not be remedied. So let us not allow the very pressing medical situation to be overshadowed by these basic questions in itself. We've got a heart attack and a threatening code black right now. How are we gonna fix that? The call for booster shots is an important step. We have seen very positive effects of this abroad. I would ask the Minister not to forget the risk groups under the age of 60 as well as the elderly. In addition, we would like to ask him to make extra haste with boosters for those who have been vaccinated with Janssen, because here we see the fastest and most decreasing effectiveness of the vaccine. I'd like to hear what the Minister can do. But I would also like some reflection from our minister. Shouldn't this have been anticipated before, looking at similar patterns abroad? Why did they start booster campaigns so much earlier abroad? But the most important thing is a vision that goes beyond the next press conference. Yesterday, Mr Kuipers told us that we have not only achieved the worst predicted scenario two months too early, but have also outdone it. This means that plans are being revised and a new worst case scenario has to be formulated. Is this gonna be enough? What options is the Cabinet currently exploring? Right now, all I've heard is 2G and a lockdown. Are those really the only tools we have in the toolbox? Where is this vision of long-term policy? According to my group, there are many more options. Better information provision, clear communication, so that the basic measures are better respected, kept away. If you have complaints, please be tested and stay at home, even if you have a green check mark in your app. Work at home as much as possible. That's right. Get good ventilation. And, of course, we must continue to focus on increasing the vaccination rate, primarily through a positive approach, which we expect to benefit more than from an obligation. Then there are some possibilities that we would like to hear from the Minister. Has any consideration been given to re-placement, 1.5 metres and lower maximum occupancy in areas where the corona pass is valid? These are measures that my group is not happy about, but they are measures that can prevent a lockdown. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a word to the people at home. I understand that almost all of the Netherlands is frustrated. Vaccines have taken their responsibilities and pulled two shots, but now they're hearing that there's been another lockdown. Unvaccinated people feel locked out and evicted. The conclusion is that everyone is angry and disgruntled. But please don't let our anger and frustration get in the way of our sense of responsibility. Nobody wants a new lockdown. Nobody wants a code black. So let us start with ourselves and take responsibility for stopping the spread as soon as possible. Let's do that together, because it's in such a difficult time that we need each other. It's about behavior, looking in the mirror and taking responsibility, of and by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u275	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP. Sorry, you're out of interruptions, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u276	No, I didn't. I just want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u277	We can't see that from each other. Mrs van der Plas, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u278	I think Mrs Pouw-Verweij always has a very good story. That is not the point of order, by the way. I realize that I may have enough fat reserves to last another half an hour and that other people in the room may not have that, but I would suggest that we continue. We're only talking about half an hour; that's how long it's gonna take. I suggest we not just take a break from dinner, but just keep going until everyone's there. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u279	That was my idea, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u280	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u281	Yeah, so we have the same vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u282	Oh, okay. Well, I'm glad I got to mention my fat reserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u283	You didn't even have to bring that in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u284	Okay, excuse me. I understood that there would be a dinner break after Mr Stoffer, so I thought that was a bit weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u285	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u286	Okay, fine. Let's keep going. That's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u287	We continue until Mr Omtzigt, whether or not we have a fat reserve, and then we suspend for dinner break. So we're on the same page. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u288	Mr President, I do not think my fat content is that high, but I can hold on for half an hour. Deo volente, Chairman. This is a classic expression used in the announcement of future events: God willing. Deo volente expresses that in everything we do we depend on God and it reminds us that we are limited people. We're not even gonna be able to tell you what our lives are gonna be like tomorrow, let alone next month, let alone next year. After almost one-and-a-half corona crises, government policy can use a little deodorant, because we are a pile of roadmaps, dashboards and roadmaps further and at the same time back to square one. The cabinet still makes us believe that a return to the old normally lies around the corner. One more lockdown. One more booster vaccine. Just a few more percent. But the honest story is that we have to learn to live together with the corona virus, not fatalistic, but realistic. We must bear in mind that for a longer period of time we will have to adapt our behavior to protect ourselves, but also to protect our neighbors. Mr. Chairman. The SGP recognises the gravity of the situation. The people in care are getting exhausted and we're all coronamoe. Even with a QR code, as parents, you don't get to your child's swimming lesson anymore and you also have to stay behind the glass wall. We cannot now allow groups in society to be played against each other, that they are explicitly or implicitly blamed for all the misery. Polarization undermines the approach of the pandemic and we need everyone, whether you're young or old, fat or thin, Muslim or Christian. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is deeply concerned about the direction of the cabinet, as the expansion of the corona pass and the announcement of so-called 2G policy put non-vaccines out of play. And who'll say for how long? I am also not reassured by the interrupting debates with both the VVD and D66. "As long as it takes," comes in response, or "as short as possible." Yeah, how long is that? 'Cause those are stretchy concepts. The foundation of the coronapas as the backbone of the corona policy is simply lean, because people who are already vulnerable are being hit extra. What does it mean, for example, for people who cannot be vaccinated because of a condition or limitation? What impact does it have on employees, such as health care workers,zzp'ers and flex workers? Can we blame entrepreneurs for implementing and enforcing such a 2G policy? Mr. Chairman. Nine months ago, this Chamber unanimously drew this point: unanimously, unanimously, a clear principled limit: testing must remain an alternative forever. A vaccination certificate should under no circumstances become an exclusive access card for facilities or locations. I call on all my colleagues to call for a halt at this border, say no to 2G. Mr. Chairman. But then the other side, because what does the SGP say yes to? The measures we need to take must be effective and long-term. I'll list a lot of them. It will not be exhaustive, but then you will know what direction we are thinking. Bet maximum compliance with basic rules and organise local Catshuis sessions with government, entrepreneurs and social institutions to give this practical form. Advise urgently to deal wisely with visits at home during the winter period and also to work at home if possible. Make free self-tests and high-quality mouth caps available for daily use in secondary and higher education, for visiting health care institutions, vulnerable and elderly people and possibly also in the work situation, because our warehouses are packed with these kinds of tests. Also strengthen the care. Avoid further emptying and realise a robust shortened covid training. Yesterday we saw that Mr Kuipers indicated that the bottleneck, the restrictive, really is in the staff. Mr. Chairman. The SGP saw and sees no benefit in a QR or test society. But now that it seems that the cabinet is going through with the corona pass, I would prefer to choose a test for everyone, that so-called 1G policy, than for excluding unvaccinated people, the 2G policy. Mr. Chairman. What we can also propose is to maximize the number of visitors in shops instead of using a corona pass. Set up a national ventilation coordinator and make innovative medicines available as soon as possible. This list is not exhaustive, but then the cabinet and colleagues will know what direction we are thinking. Finally, Mr President. I want to be honest, because there's no blueprint for living with the virus. Nor does the SGP have the wisdom. But we have tried to outline perspective and take responsibility together in a way that can be sustained; tomorrow, next year, and perhaps even longer than that. Deo volente. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u289	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u290	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Health are holding the Netherlands in a stranglehold. One has a hand in screwing around and cheating, and the other felt it necessary to threaten the Dutch as a schoolmaster a week and a half ago with punishment if they did not comply with the measures. A three-week lockdown was announced at the announced press conference. Hardly anyone in the country believes it's gonna take three weeks, but okay. The measures started the next day. Are we waiting for the debate in the Chamber and the approval of the people's representatives? You didn't have to. Mr. Chairman. I say it again: the Netherlands has become a coronadicature. But it doesn't stop there. Because the 2G measure cannot count on Parliament's approval in advance, the Minister of Health felt it necessary to threaten the Dutch again over the back of the House of Representatives. Because if the House of Representatives doesn't agree to 2G, there will be a heavier lockdown. Mr. Chairman. If that's not tyranny, then at least that's a false contradiction. Many Dutch people wonder: when will it stop; what can we do about it? When will the Netherlands be relieved of this suffering? Then I'm not even talking about the corona virus itself, because that's gonna be between us for a while. I am talking about the corona policy variants that have been in the hands of the Netherlands for a year and a half. Every time the Netherlands thinks that the end is in sight, a new, heavier policy variant pops up. The most vulnerable in society will be the first to arrive. Those are the caterers. It is simply unfair that these entrepreneurs, who have already suffered in this way, who have invested tremendously in making their services possible in a safe and responsible way, are now being caught hard again. It is therefore not surprising that public confidence has fallen from 69% to 29% in a year and a half. If even enforcers and mayors now say "look at it," then you know that there is little left of those 29%. The most aggressive variant of the corona policy has now manifested itself in the circles around this cabinet: the so-called 2G variant. A variant that was thrown into the country from behind The Hague drawing tables and will further increase the division between vaccinated and unvaccinated. While the guilt of this situation with increasing contagion is being placed by the cabinet with non-vaccines, the cabinet should consult itself on what went wrong. Over and over again, it has been refused to work on scaling up the ic-capacity and better rewarding the care staff. To conceal one's own failure, draconian freedom-limiting measures are taken each time. How can it be that we had less infections at 0.0% vaccination rate last year, when we are now at 85% vaccination rate? How is it that compared to a year and a half ago, there are fewer staff in intensive care? How can there be the possibility at this time that 5,000 boas are attracted and trained, but not 5,000 nurses? This cabinet makes the wrong choices. They would really do well to tackle their problems, especially since these measures are intended only because these vaccination fetishists want to put people with a compulsion and urge into their arms. That's abuse of power. As far as DENK is concerned, the emphasis should be much more on maintaining the basic measures and preventing clusters. We must not forget that covid is a cluster-driven infectious disease. Focus on prevention measures instead of forced vaccination. Mr President, concluding. It is bad, it is bad that we should protect people from the corona policy and that that corona policy has become the problem against which people need to be protected. More and more and more people are forced to be vaccinated. Last week, during the debate, I announced that my group set up the Vaccination Force. I can tell you by now that 31,000 individual reports have been received. Last week, during the debate, the Prime Minister felt that showing a coronapas would not be a controversial issue in society. The opposite is true! 31,000 reports, and 2G hasn't even entered into force yet! I therefore call on anyone who feels excluded or feels compelled to take a shot, to report to www.meldpuntvaccinationdwang.nl again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u291	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister is still implementing the motion I tabled together with Mr Paternotte to start the booster campaign earlier. But it's not going fast enough for me. A care infarction is very close. In the technical briefing we heard that the GGD still needs a lot of injection staff in the coming months for the booster campaign. Can the Minister explain to me why it was not anticipated that staff would be deployed for the booster campaign? And why is there no clarity until January about the use of booster vaccination for people under the age of 60 with vulnerable health? I also read that people from the group of non-mobile residents can only be pricked with the booster vaccine in January. Is this not too late in view of the threat of a heart attack, I ask the Minister? 2G keeps society busy. I get a lot of e-mails from people who cannot be vaccinated because of a disease and therefore will be excluded from introducing the 2G measure. How is the Minister going to ensure that these people can just continue to participate in society if 2G could get there? Furthermore, it is not clear to me why the corona admission certificate of vaccinated people who are infected remains active. This puts us at an unnecessary risk of further contamination. It should be technically possible to make the QR code invalid during a corona contamination. Can the Minister say anything about this? Mr. Chairman. Like many other Dutch people, the courage is really starting to fall into my shoes. I too am a coronamoe and I too want to be able to live without measures. And I, too, see people struggling with the limitations every day. I see the division in our society and I want to return to the old normal tomorrow, but I realize that we will not be there for a while. Mr. Chairman. Every human needs clarity and every human needs perspective. And that is exactly what we lack. We are a country of poldering, consulting, listening to each other, wiggling and weighing and unfortunately nowadays also swearing and threatening. But to scale up and then to let go: something must be done and then it must not be done again. Then, with a lot of measures, we let local authorities and entrepreneurs choose what to do. Do the 11th of the 11th fours or not? Take your pick. Enter 2G or still opt for 3G in your restaurant? Take your pick. Like you're saying to a little kid, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Take your pick. Did you or didn't you go to school? Choose for yourself." Or to an adult: "Whether or not to stop for a red traffic light? Choose for yourself." Everyone knows that this teaching is completely irresponsible and that it does not work. This pandemic is no longer ad hoc, but has been among us for 20 months. We need a vision with a long-term strategy instead of always running behind the facts. We need perspective and clear communication. I would like to ask the cabinet whether it agrees with me and, if so, whether the cabinet wants to make that vision with a long-term strategy, so that we can continue to anticipate and so that we can create clarity, perhaps in several scenarios. And I want to ask for tight direction: no polders, not a little bit of this and a little bit of that. Mr. Chairman. I also suggested earlier that the army or the Red Cross should be involved in the central coordination of the implementation of the measures, as has happened in Portugal, for example. How does the cabinet feel about that? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Has the effect of maintaining 3G also been considered, with the QR codes being checked properly and everywhere? In addition to 3G, we should consistently maintain the basic measures for a longer period of time and make the 1.5 metres mandatory. Surely all the measures have been put in place for a reason? I don't get the idea of proposing 2G now, because any measure you set up, but not control and maintain, makes no sense at all. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I do not want to believe in my heart that this is a Netherlands we all want to live in. We're divided to the bone, angry at each other, calling each other names and threatening each other. I want to believe this I live in the Netherlands from the beginning of the crisis, when we helped each other and looked at each other. Let us take action together to take care of our lonely elderly people, to support young people who have to stay at home and do everything they can to deal with this terrible virus and fight together as best we can. This requires clear policies, clear communication, vision and a good long-term strategy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u293	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not exclude residents of the Netherlands, vaccinated and unvaccinated. "Corona is a very unwelcome guest who smashed our front door in early 2020. He chased Grandma to the attic and locked up kids in their rooms. As soon as we say something, he'll scream right through it. As soon as we want something, he forbids it from grinning. In the nursing homes, Corona struck hard. Many weak died without the comforting proximity of their neighbors. Weaks who had a partner or were strong enough to remain independent often opted for isolation. What's left of their lives? Contacts are kept to a minimum and fear reigns. If you have to believe Hugo de Jonge and Mark Rutte, are they the knights who lead the battle to protect the Netherlands from corona, but is that what they do? The Dutch ic-care is 'efficiently decorated'. That's management language for "as cheap as possible." Above all, there should be no overcapacity. So every winter it was crisis in hospitals when the flu came along. Then came corona. We went to harvest what's sown. Tens of thousands of care workers have given up fighting. They couldn't take it anymore. That is why we now have even less ic-capacity than at the start of the corona crisis." The above text comes from a striking article by writer Maaike van Charante. It is a text that perfectly reflects how corona walked into our lives and raging in the houses like a tyrant. Corona not only makes people physically ill, but also costs people their freedom, job, friends, family and business. It costs people and especially many young people their mental health. The turning of society, the division, is deeply wounded in our society. The outgoing minister and Prime Minister can tell me more, but the fact is that the basic measures and ventilation are not or are not sufficiently communicated. Keep your distance, wash your hands, stay at home with complaints and get tested, even if you've been vaccinated. Ventilate and work at home as much as possible. No, instead, the Coronapas have been sold as a vulgar liberty pass in recent months. The green check mark was brought to the man with the v of freedom and not with the v of responsibility. That was a capital mistake, because in all the figures, including those of the OMT, we see that the contagion rates and hospital rates have exploded since that time, September 25, especially among 60-plussers suffering from underlying suffering. Nearly half of them have been vaccinated, but admit it. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Waving away, laughing away and mucking away. I call it triple w. As far as BBB is concerned, therefore, both the Demissionary Minister and the Demissionary Prime Minister must be removed from the case. If they don't get a case solved by the police, they'll put a coldcase team on it. The team is reunited with new people, and they're going to look at it with fresh eyes. I want the entire Corona policy to include a coldcase team. We've been dealing with the same people for two years, and the case isn't resolved. Perhaps a tunnel vision prevails. The pressure on care is only increasing. There has been a dichotomy in society that this century has never seen before. This division has been encouraged and facilitated by the outgoing minister and a number of parties in this Chamber. I'll table a motion for this coldcase team in the second term. Then I come to the measures. I'm sick of the choices being made. Why does a hairdresser, a solarium, a beauty specialist or a pedicure have to close at 6:00? Corona doesn't spread before 6:00 and after 6:00 he does? Contact professions work one-on-one. Pedicures don't do the feet of 30 men sitting together on laps or anything. There aren't 100 men on a bed on a sunbed. Contact professionals have invested a lot in hygiene measures: splash screens, disinfection, working at a sufficient distance, gloves, customer spread, you name it. What is the point of shutting these companies down at 6:00 p.m. and how many infections does this matter? Why not take measures based on actual contagion risks so that entrepreneurs who can safely do their work are not unnecessarily affected? Please answer these questions. Finally, Mr President. In times of crisis, we need leaders. We need leaders leading us through the crisis, with short eggs. We do not need leaders who make us suffer through the crisis, with a long time. I would like to conclude with an appeal to the inhabitants of the Netherlands. Don't let them play you against each other. Be nice to each other. Take care of each other. Don't let your family, your club or your group of friends fall apart because in this room people say everyone is equal, just one little bit more equal than the other. Support each other. Be there for each other. Help each other out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u295	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Upstairs in a hospital bed, attached to the ventilator, surrounded by care workers who, despite being asked for structuralally for years, are doing everything possible to ease your suffering. Die all alone while your loved ones are on the other side of the ic-door. I do not wish anyone to do so, but to my great regret it is a path of suffering that thousands of people in the Netherlands face. Until June of this year, more than 31,000 people died from COVID-19. And with the umpteenth peak that we now see taking place in front of our eyes, this number is rising steadily. I shall return to that today. Because even though we know this, this outgoing cabinet still opts for a strategy where as many people as possible are infected. We are working on a ticket that will stop people from complying with basic rules while they can still be contagious, get sick and even get on ic. And also recovery certificates do not exclude transmission of the virus. Thus, this cabinet creates false security, while the virus erupts in all its variants. This is not incompetent; this is unethical. The legislative proposal on the extension of this substance talks openly about mitigation, i.e. dissemination. It's not about prevention, it's not about containment, it's about spreading the virus. If we accept that, we accept that we are not trying to do everything to prevent suffering. In doing so, we accept that people become infected, sick and die, and we accept that the obligation to protect public health is not sufficiently respected. Mr. Chairman. I'll never accept that. People can fall over my tone, they can fall over the numbers I mention in my motions, but unfortunately, every time it's the painful truth. 31,384 people died from this virus between March 2020 and the end of June of this year. That's right. These are figures that policy makers, and especially we opposition members, must not look away from. They remind us of our duty, even if it hurts a little. They point out to us how we do not comply with this at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I will repeat: we must break this strategy. It's a strategy that takes for granted a high level of infection among schoolchildren. It is a strategy of disease, of mortality, of half-hearted lockdown after half-hearted lockdown, because the virus continues to circulate our society according to strategic choices of this cabinet. The lockdowns do not affect the great earners and people in detached homes. No, they meet the worker who sits with the whole family in a two-room apartment in Rotterdam-Zuid. They don't just hit people in their cars in traffic, like me and many of you here, but they do hit the student or commuters on the train, the care worker, the cleaner and the bartender. They have to knit it around every time with non-covering support packages, while the people at the top are getting richer laughing. Mr. Chairman. We need a long-term vision for a society where the virus no longer leaves. 'Cause now what? Booster pricking until we weigh one, while the global vaccination rate is not yet in order and therefore leaves room for new variants? Once again, we need a vision that goes beyond the next press conference, which is both national and international. Now there is a proposal for a so-called 1G policy on the table. In any case, this is better than the totally unreliable 2G system, which also excludes people, or the current access card, which deliberately allows infections. It is the choice that best guarantees safety, without distinction and in an equivalent way. But here too, the key question remains: are we changing strategy? Are we just gonna measure infections or are we actually gonna prevent them? That change of course remains vital. In addition, we really have to go back to the basic WHO measures, everywhere and even when you have been vaccinated, for example in the supermarket and in the O.V. Thanks to the chosen malpractice and the enormous speed with which the virus continues to roam, we will all have to believe it. So keep your distance, wear a mouth cap, ventilate and wash your hands. I shall make that request to the citizen. The testing, tracing, isolation and containment is an assignment to a responsible government. This is a choice that has not yet been consciously made. I say "still" as a naivel, which I sometimes appear to be. That is why I am presenting this again today. Room's not the first move. I say again: let us take responsibility, please. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u297	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u298	Mr. Chairman. There's a narrow margin between hosanna and crucifixion. Discrimination and violation of the Constitution are not minorities and the crimes committed by this cabinet will not be without consequences. This cabinet should be about the ethical aspect of government policy and about the moral compass of this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The announced introduction of the discriminatory 2G regime is the apotheosis of a wrong State. Under the guise of caring collectivism, our individual fundamental rights are sacrificed. It is a transition to a totalitarian regime. The importance of the Netherlands will continue to oppose this. But the 2G regime is also illogical. Faithful people who have taken gene therapy proved to be less and less protected from corona, but through the QR pass they can enter anywhere and then infect each other there. This stupidity really has nothing to do with fighting a virus. Because of the threatening 2G dictatorship, healthy people are now proactively infecting each other, otherwise being excluded from society, from their friends, from their sports club and from their work. Is the Minister aware of this side effect of his absurd policy? Mr. Chairman. The new measures are once again illogical and harmful. Can the Minister explain why the catering industry should close at 8:00 p.m. when only 2.9% of the infections were traced back to the catering industry? Why 1,250 people in one room, but limit the number of students to 75 people? What, students aren't people? How bad is the mental health of young people? How many infections are prevented because parents are no longer allowed to watch football or their children's swimming lessons? Mr. Chairman. During the previous debate, I asked how the Minister could explain the enormous excess mortality. In the meantime, excess mortality continues to increase. Are these non-treated cancer patients or are they still vaccination-killing? I'd like to get an answer this time. Mr. Chairman. Not only unvaccinated people are now rebelling against this cabinet. Victims now also see that this is a sliding scale towards a jet black society in which a minority is excluded by acts of powerlessness that have gotten out of hand. History will deal with you and interest of the Netherlands will continue to fight you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u299	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u300	Mr. Chairman. Care's got a lot of weight. People walk on their gums. For many people very necessary care is postponed. These problems will only increase in the coming weeks. The government doesn't rule, it reacts. It comes with a proposal after proposal, without strategy and without checking whether the previous measures are being properly implemented. The corona app isn't working yet. The source and contact research is not functioning. People don't stay at home with complaints and a minority gets tested. New quarantine policy has been announced, but it is not being implemented. There would be an information campaign, but it's invisible. There was supposed to be a communication on ventilation, but that's not clear. As far as booster shots are concerned, I think we have over 5 million shots. It takes weeks in the Netherlands for them to be extradited. In the UK it took 48 hours. Mr. Chairman. There is an enormous amount of room for better implementation of the basic measures. Is the government prepared to make a plan for that? Because the basis has to be in order before we take further far-reaching measures. Society's split. That fission hurts. We mainly talk about each other and above all about what the other should or should not do. Normally the cabinet or the informers speak with about the entire polder, really with everyone. But in corona, there is an ivory tower. Is the Cabinet prepared to speak with supporters and opponents of vaccination, and with the exhausted people in the care? And I don't mean the loudest screamers. You have to understand the concerns and really listen to them in order to make a plan. Let me give you an example. A study in the north showed that one in six unvaccinated people is waiting for an invitation or thinks they should pay for it. For such people, the 2G system is not the solution, but a letter or a commercial on the television. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the strategy. Corona doesn't leave in four of the WRR's five scenarios. We're gonna have to live with it for a long time. The vaccines protect against serious disease for a time, but also vaccinees become infected and are still about half as contagious. The painful reality is that corona, even if everyone is vaccinated, does not disappear by itself. That shows Portugal. That's where almost all the adults were vaccinated. If the reproductive factor is 6 and you are half as contagious, the reproductive factor after vaccination is still above 1. That means that we don't run a marathon to the finish line, but that we have found a new and very nasty travel companion. My question to the government is therefore: what was the government's strategy and what will the strategy be now that Corona will not go away on its own in the near future? Does the government still believe that group immunity can be achieved? If that is not the case, why does the government believe that the number of recordings should be smeared? I have one last sentence, Mr. Chairman. The corona pass without further measures is a sham solution. More than 1,000 people got infected at the Amsterdam Dance Event, while there were less than 200 infections around the city every day and everyone had to have a band. With 2G a third of the visitors of a disco in Münster got infected. Does the government recognise that only prior deployment of the CTB leads to false security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u301	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting until 8 p.m. Then we start with the response by the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u302	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. First, I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The division of roles we intended is that Ferd Graperhaus will address questions about enforcement. My suggestion is that he gets to start like this. Then the idea is that I will then follow and, above all, answer the questions about the immediate package of measures that is now in force, also in the light of the situation over the next few months. Afterwards Hugo de Jonge will focus on the questions about 2G, 3G and the extension of the CTB; such issues. I will also answer a question myself about the support package. My impression was that there might be another separate debate on it, but I do not think that has yet been requested. I had actually prepared myself with the idea that there would be a separate debate, but I will certainly try to say something in general about the support package. So if it's okay with you, my suggestion would be: first Ferd Grapperhaus, because then he can leave. Then I'll do the motions in his area, too, if the Chamber will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u304	I'm gonna go check on the room and see if that's okay. That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security, who, after replying, leaves the Chamber because of other urgent work-related activities; then I say it quite generally, but that is the bottom line. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u305	Mr President, thank you. It is indeed completely work-related. Unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to see how the Kuip will be tonight. It's no different. Mr. Chairman. In response to a number of questions put by your Members, it is good to say a few words about the three-stroke compliance, control and enforcement; I would like to stress this once again. I think it is good to say a little more today about the importance of the distinction between those three. I particularly refer to Mrs Den Haan's question, because she asked: can you tell us something about what the image is? Last weekend, I was in contact with many mayors, because you could see in the media that there were announcements in various places in advance: we are not going to comply with these measures. This leads me to begin by expressing my appreciation for the way in which many mayors have acted actively last weekend. I'd like to mention the example of Leeuwarden. Leeuwarden was the first in the news in the afternoon, and immediately grabbed the means of the preventive burden under penalty payment. That is also an immediate answer to questions from Mr Paternotte and Mrs De Vries about how you deal with people like that and how you anticipate them. I think that really just worked well. Corona evidence's been around for about seven weeks now. We have, of course, seen that compliance is gradually improving, but that compliance and control in two categories, in hotels and sports canteens, are still really insufficient, especially since it is only the QR code that is being checked and the identity is apparently not being used, as research shows. In the meantime, I have made the necessary money available; I have already said a few times about this. We can see that in a number of regions this money has actually been used actively. As a good example, let me mention Groningen. It has already spent 1 million out of the 1.5 million it had at its disposal. I see that the funds are spent in the most different ways. For example, there is a productive visit to all kinds of sports associations and other times a fixed amount is spent on companies, institutions and so on. We are currently seeing two things in the periodic surveys. We see that compliance control is gradually increasing. Moreover, enforcement in the area of closures has increased dramatically. That was before new measures came into force last Saturday. It was also asked by Mrs De Vries: "What is this approach in Breda? 'Cause we don't get it." What was going on in Breda immediately brings me to another thorny point, namely the overload of enforcement. That is why I place such emphasis on compliance control. I'm willing to give you a full overview. We may not have to talk about this for very long tonight, but only in period 1 of 2021 there are 127.000 extra police hours. When we see the demonstration chart of the number of protesters and the necessary regular police deployment, I stress "needed regular" but for a moment we can see that there is really a huge seizure of our enforcers: police but also boas. This means that we really should not shove it at them, but should see if we can improve it with all kinds of means, especially in that control. That continues to go better, but I still think that in catering and sports canteens they really still... It still applies. People shouldn't think: oh, it's going to close 8 p.m., so before that time we can... No, that's what we keep hammering on and that's what we keep doing together with the mayors. As for Breda, the mayor sent me a detailed report on it on Monday. That afternoon he had a Kick Out Zwarte Piet demonstration, which already seized a considerable amount, also on ME capacity. He said: I am going to talk to and also visit catering companies who refuse to do so today. They were given a warning. There are 25 who received a fine or penalty the next day. This has therefore been clearly maintained. Then I come to Mrs De Vries' point. Couldn't you do some kind of three strikes out? I think that's what she said. But, of course, that's already there. Of course, we already have the system of first a warning, then the burden under penalty payment and finally closure. But we have Thorbecke's house in the Netherlands. I would like to mention that. That is an important difference from a country like France. It means we've got the Freies Ermes from the local board. I'm sure they're really on top of it. I see that and I hear that if I talk to all kinds of mayors all Saturday and Sunday: how are things going, what's happening, can we help? But in our administrative relations, the local government is really at stake. And then you have to give them the opportunity to stand at that bar. Again, the number of charges under penalty payment is increasing considerably and the number of closures is also increasing, but we must pay attention. In the end, it is important that there is also support for the measures among catering companies. That is why those actions where a whole municipality passes catering companies are so incredibly good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u306	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u307	The cabinet leans on a number of pillars, whether you agree with them or not. These are the coronapas and a number of intentions, including 2G. But everything falls or stands with enforcement. Isn't it a little too easy to say: that lies with local authority and that's it? I can see the Minister breathing, but I wasn't finished with my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u308	That's okay, thank God!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u309	One, two...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u310	Just not in my breathing circle, because... We're getting serious again. Do you know why I'm worried about this? If that enforcement isn't in order and you're leaning strongly on it, it's a wash nose. In short, I expect a slightly tighter and more convincing story about how enforcement is actually going to work out, whether it's about 3G, 2G or potentially 1G. If there is no such thing, then we must accept it and we cannot rely on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u311	Here it comes again. It begins in the first place with compliance. Let's be very clear. We won't be able to put a boa or a police officer on every corner of the street, if that's Mrs. Chicken's question. I think they're doing it creatively. I see that in congregations. I saw that this spring, when there was a lot of closed and I stopped by. For example, in busy shopping areas and in other busy areas, they are strategically set up by street managers. That is what we are working on, but it starts with respect for citizens. The second is also an essential point, namely control. One of the Members of Parliament, I believe, asked Mrs De Vries if we could remove them from the entrepreneurs. That does not seem to me to be the case, because that is precisely the obligation of entrepreneurs in this whole area under the rules. As far as enforcement is concerned, I can see that mayors are indeed dealing wisely with refusers or people who say in advance that they are not going to do so. I've been working very actively on that over the past weekend. Now I see that Mrs. Chicken is reacting a bit to me, but I think that should be possible. Mayors can give them a preventive burden in advance: listen, we are not going to do that, because then you will be shut down immediately. And then you can see that mayors are on top of it in certain other cases. I have seen this in Amsterdam and in Utrecht, for example, where this happens very well. There they go with the boas and with the municipal people, and they address people so that they still close. I think that we should also congratulate the catering industry on this, because it is, of course, a very sour situation for them. You can see that, after the groaning in some cities during such a first evening, they actually started working on it. However, the picture that enforcement would not be in order does not recognise that enforcement is indeed in order. We also make really good agreements there that are being kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u312	Mrs De Vries, do you have a question? Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to finish his speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u313	I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u314	Mr President, I will move on quickly. Mr Paternott asked if there should be no more 45 million. There's still money left. I sincerely believe that the money that has been made available, first to good practices, to good practices, to smart solutions, should be drawn up. We must then, indeed, simply look at how it is going to develop. That's where we keep our finger on the wrist, along with the Security Council and individual mayors. The SGP asked for 2G. Maintaining the 2G is, of course, in itself no different from maintaining the current corona access card. This will also focus on a limited number of sectors. So there lies in itself in the control, or enforcement, not an additional point. Mr. Chairman. I think I answered the questions that were there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u315	Thank you. I shall look first at Mrs De Vries and then at Mr Paternotte. Mrs De Vries, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u316	Following the previous discussion, Mr Paternotte and I are still waiting for the invitation to take part in the Security Council. I do appreciate the police and how they do it. We see from time to time that they are simply challenged and sarcastic. Then I always admire how calm they stay, because I think I probably couldn't do that myself. However, I do think that when we talk about enforcement, of course, it starts with compliance and control, and this is also about visibility. I think that the concern in the House of Representatives is to some extent that we simply have no idea what is happening in the various security regions, what approaches are being chosen and how many fines are being paid. Passing those fines is not an end in itself. No, we just want the measures to be properly enforced and enforced. So I'd like to get a little more insight into what that's like. I had another unanswered question. I asked about the fineing of people who are in a catering establishment without a valid QR code. Are they to be fined? And what could be a barrier to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u317	About the latter: the fines focus on the entrepreneurs. I think that is a great relief for enforcement, because it is not for them to go to the pubs to fine people as well. What is true, of course, is that, as I have pointed out in the press a few times, people who, for example, use QR codes for fraud or forgery of codes, vaccination certificates and the like, are very clearly dealt with in criminal law. If people get caught in the act somewhere with such a fake QR code, that could lead to a police report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u318	Mrs De Vries had asked another question, namely how the fines are going in the security regions. She wants to get a little more insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u319	The security regions are gonna give me their update soon. Friday I also get the latest compliance survey. So I can promise that in a letter I will give the last update of how preventive burdens and other things are now rising. I think it would be a good idea to just send that in a letter to your Chamber, so that you can have that end of this early next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u320	In the previous debate, the Minister said: come with me to the Security Council, because then you can see how that goes. I've missed the invitation to the last Security Council meeting, so I'm just gonna assume it's gonna be the next meeting. My question is also about the investigation of the Ministry itself. You can see that enforcement is progressing a bit, certainly, but that at the gyms, for example, only half of the people's QR code is being checked and that it is not really overflowing in the hospitality industry. My question is then a little bit: where are we going? Is it not necessary to check many more places in municipalities and give them a little more room for manoeuvre? For example, I hear from mayors that hosts or hostesses are being deployed at entrances. If you have to maintain a lot more places, you're probably gonna need some more people, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u321	Again, this is not about enforcement. This is about compliance and control. The point is that we are focusing our research on this, so that we can also talk on the other side, namely along the sectors themselves. Then we can say: listen, tell us what you need, because there's money for that and we'll put you in touch with the municipalities to do this better. Meanwhile, the municipalities also see exactly where the weaknesses lie. In enforcement, the agreement was made that we should work with each other at risk and on a sample basis. I explained that here last time, and we do. By the way, I'll be right back on that invitation. What I don't want to hide is a little bit of the point that Mrs. Chicken just made. On the subject of visibility, I should like to say quite honestly: the possibility of using enforcers must be very focused, because, of course, at some point in time, the capacity to do so is full. I see that I say quite honestly that mayors do almost all of this in a smart and sharp way, so that they can get the leak out. The point is, of course, that we see that it starts with compliance. If 50% of people leave home with complaints and have not been tested, it is very soon difficult in society to correct what is happening. Finally, I come to the invitation. Last Thursday we met in the small Webex windows following this package. I didn't want your MPs to wear it. But I'm gonna keep working on the fact that there's gonna be an invitation as soon as we go live again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u322	I see there is another interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u323	I hope this does not go away from my interruptions, but we and the Animal Party have asked questions about a temporary ban on fireworks for old and new.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u324	That is what the Minister of General Affairs, also known as the Prime Minister, is going to come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u325	Continuing on, I would like to ask whether this is really about the enforcement and the possibilities for police and boas under the ban on fireworks. I would have liked to hear that from this minister, to be honest. So I mean the supervision and enforcement and the reactions of the boas and the police. I would have liked to go on with that. I'm fine with it if it's with the Prime Minister, but I hope it'll be taken with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u326	I think it's a little weird. The Secretary of State is really taking this up for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u327	Then I would like to thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u328	I'm locked in, so I can't leave yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u329	I see it. One of the rulers has to get up. Thank you very much. We're just gonna clean up for a little while. Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u330	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to deal with it this way, if that's all right with you. First of all, I would like to address a number of questions relating to the package of measures that has been running since Friday. Then a few questions have been asked about the strategy; let me put it this way. Finally, there are a number of other questions. No, I'm sorry, they're mostly about the support package. I shall begin with the additional measures that have been necessary since Friday to bring the number of infections back under control. The situation is that the Outbreak Management Team says: there are so many infections in so many regions and so many age groups that just need generic measures. Then it's about being able to substantially reduce contacts across a wide area. That is what the package is aimed at. This means that you can't cut with scissors exactly anymore what the effect is of, for example, whether or not to open a hairdresser after six. The point is that you not only try to bring back the number of contact moments within the hospitality or a hairdresser, but also the number of contact moments during the trip to and from the hotel. It's also necessary. The good news, of course, is that you can now see that the number of journeys by road has been decreasing since Monday. I just read on the Telegraaf's website that the number of transport movements in public transport has fallen enormously. Unfortunately for public transport, because that is of course very annoying news for them. This naturally causes concern about what that means for the organisation. I understand that very well. But in itself, the positive news is that apparently many more people have been working at home since last Friday's announcement. To what extent exactly is that measurable? It's all still to be seen. It's only been one, two days. But that is of course the kind of effect you want to see, because this is necessary. Contact professions are part of this very broad category of so-called non-essential services. This includes saunas, casinos and bowling alleys. Therefore, it has been chosen to use a closing time for that category as well. It is true that the share of catering in the clusters is limited in itself, but they are often very large clusters. So if things go wrong there, unfortunately, they're very large clusters. Plus: it involves a lot of movements to and from the hospitality industry, throughout the country and, of course, often within the regions, by public transport, in cars, across the street. That's not just where you are, it's in all these transport movements. In the end, we chose to keep the sport open, but we did say that we would unfortunately not allow the public to participate in sport. I say this in response to Mrs van den Berg's question. She asks why you can go to a show, but there can't be an audience at a sports game. This very broad cultural sector is, of course, extremely affected. Of course, that's part of the game. You have to make choices somewhere in the whole. On average things happen there very neatly, replaced et cetera. We did say: you must prevent a large pop concert with thousands of people in Paradiso. That is why there is a maximum of 1,250, because you also have to impose a number of restrictions on travel movements. In doing so, the package has been put together as it is. Grosso modo follows that also about the heaviness of the OMT package. There are differences on parts. On a number of points, the OMT continues. On a number of points, we are moving forward. But if you add it up and share it again, you'll get about the same size, weighed on hand, between the OMT package and what we're doing now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u331	I think the Prime Minister is giving a somewhat unsatisfactory answer. What if I'm a parent and I'm normally around that field on Saturday? I think it's hard to explain. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can explain why this is really not possible, because I get a lot of e-mails from people who are wondering why the one can, when it is often inside, while it is also outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u332	In amateur sport, it's an incredible amount of movement. You soon talk about over a million a week. We thought it was very important to keep the amateur sport going, but you have to make choices, so the very annoying choice to say to the public there: stay away. Then the sport itself can continue. The OMT just made another choice, but on balance, I think it's a good thing that people can at least keep moving. You know, you can ask any of those things, why? In the end, it is a matter of really having to blow the number of movements and contact moments. Perhaps it will be useful, Mr President, if I also answer the other questions on the package before I answer any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u333	Yeah, that seems very...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u334	Maybe they were already in my answer. For example, there was a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u335	Before you go any further, is this about the last point? Let me give Mrs Caroline van der Plas of BBB the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u336	Yeah, that's right. I think the outgoing Prime Minister is getting away with it a little too easily. Can the outgoing Prime Minister explain the following? You're in a theater with a maximum of 1,250 people, even though you're placed inside, close to each other, or you're on a sports field with a number of parents, who also drive their own children there, so that's just one household in a car. So I don't understand these transport movements. Then what's the big deal? How many infections are we going to get less? The outgoing Prime Minister says we just have to make choices. Well, you just have to make choices? Then I think: but why this choice? Because one seems to give me a little more risk than the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u337	The large number of contact moments. The amateur sport is very big. The audience at amateur sport is also very large. People don't stay out alone. They're going in, too. They drink in the cafeteria, et cetera. So it's about such large numbers of movements that it's really irresponsible. We would have had to take tougher measures elsewhere. In the end, we wanted to achieve about the same effect as that of the OMT package. Inside we have made a number of different choices. At that time we said that sport itself is crucial, but that you should impose a number of restrictions on the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u338	That's not the way I've been in the sport, not with Ajax in the skybox, but just on the football field. I haven't seen that there are so many contact moments between parents. Parents are more likely to discuss which kid can play soccer than they are flying around each other's necks. In the canteens you grab a cup of coffee and then you often go out again to watch your child's sports game. So I don't see it that way. So for me, the question remains: why should 1,250 people be in a theatre, but not some people along the field at sports competitions, perhaps also replaced? I think they can do that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u339	It's about the numbers. We just need to reduce the number of contact moments. Eventually, you have to make choices about that. It's very large numbers. Let the sport itself continue we found very important. Otherwise, you should have decided not to allow sports to take place after 18.00 hours or to close the whole sport at certain times. We didn't think it was wise. So we have said: we are trying to keep the sport going as far as possible, but unfortunately with the choice to keep the public away from it. Then they asked about... Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u340	Excuse me, Mrs Van der Plas wishes to ask a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u341	Yeah, I didn't run away yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u342	I'm sorry. I thought you were walking back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u343	You might have liked that, but you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u344	No, not at all. I really like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u345	You will, at the end of the night. Yeah, we have choices to make. I get a bit of the idea that it's like the old days at our house, when the question is, where are we going on vacation? Then you were allowed to throw a dart on the world map. No, it was the European map, because we didn't get that far on vacation in the old days. Then you were allowed to throw a dart and then we went to the place that was designated by the arrow that was the nearest. That's how I take it, like: yes, we have to do something, this or other; we just had to make a choice. But I do not have the idea that there is a deliberate thought behind this: that is exactly why we are doing this, and that is why we are combating so many infections. No, it's: we just have to do something. That does not give me very much confidence in the way in which specific measures are being looked at to really reduce the number of infections. Does the outgoing Prime Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u346	No, I disagree. The point is that the virus is raging around on such a large scale that you really need to hit it hard. For that, you have to look at the places where a lot of movements take place. That's just in the hospitality business, unfortunately, although the hospitality business is not bad. There is a problem with enforcement in too many restaurants, but in itself the number of clusters is rather limited. But they're very big clusters right away. The numbers involved in sport are very large. You want to leave the sport as much as possible untouched, so you have to make a choice: can you then counteract the large number of movements of the visitors? That's the choice we made. Those are choices we made. We have discussed this in detail. The OMT said close the theaters, too. We have said that we do not. We're looking at whether the whole package is heavy enough, but the culture sector has already been hit very hard by previous lockdowns, so we're trying to avoid them now. I hope we can keep it that way. Those are the choices you make, also because these are more limited numbers of movements and there are actually no alternatives for culture to convey that culture, other than a single classical concert that happens to be broadcast on TV. Most of it is of course limited to the hall where the play or the music performance takes place. The professional sport, like tonight Netherlands-Norway, we can also watch on TV, although that is not what you want, because you want to go to the stadium, of course, you want that atmosphere. But those are the choices we made after careful weighing, to ensure that, on balance, we come about to the impact that the OMT advice bore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u347	Perhaps it would be a good idea if you completed the package of measures. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Agema and then to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u348	Another question has been asked: can you do a combination of the 1.5 meters and a corona pass? For us, the starting point is that the 1.5 meters do not apply where a CTB is requested. This makes it possible for catering establishments to operate their business as cost-effective as possible. That is why we think it is important to set up a placement obligation in a number of places. In this way, the risks will be reduced as much as possible and exploitation will continue to be possible. If you add the 1.5 meters yourself... we don't think that's necessary right now. Then there was the question about the schools. I would like to say that, if they were to close down, we would of course be helping the schools. The Ministry of Education does so by providing them with all relevant information and by providing service documents, Q&As and direct response from schools. The Ministry of OCW has also done well at the beginning of the corona crisis. But at the moment, it is absolutely our intention to do everything in our power to ensure that schools remain open. Then there was a question about MBO and HBO and the practical placements. Practical education has always been excluded from the restrictions where possible, because we consider it important that it can continue if there is no alternative remotely possible, I say to Mrs Van den Berg. For practical placements, if this takes place in a profession or setting where the internship or distance work is not possible, it cannot continue. In doing so, we also call on educational institutions, employers, supervisors and students to make good agreements. Then there was the suggestion to limit the visit at home during the winter period and to work at home if possible. We have now, of course, given these opinions for the period now in force, until 3 December. We hope, of course, that it will no longer be necessary, but we will continue to look at this in the light of the current epidemiological situation. There was also a question about Black Friday, November 26th. That falls within this period. Of course, all the measures in force, such as closing times, wearing masks, and the urgent advice to keep your distance, are also valid. Figures from INretail show that the call to spread Black Friday last year had an effect in a large part of the Netherlands. This year, too, it is important for employers in the retail sector to feel a great deal of responsibility for their own employees and for their contribution to the fight against the corona virus and the safety of their customers. That is why this year, too, the broadcasting company to work together to ensure that it is not too crowded in the inner cities and thus to keep shopping safe. Then there's the ban on fireworks. That is actually a bit of a procedural answer, because we still have a decision to take. Last year there was a ban on fireworks. We will, if possible this week, but at least as soon as possible, decide whether or not this year is the same. If that is the case, there is, of course, financial compensation for the sector. That will be taken into account in such a decision. Once again, the decision itself has yet to be taken. Then there are the basic measures. That is, of course, also the frustration: that we simply cannot keep to a sufficient degree. This undoubtedly also has to do with inadequate communication of the undersigned and the cabinet. We are always trying to communicate as clearly as possible. That is also an answer to the question put by Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. In fact, we will always try to improve this communication and, where we can, we will also intensify it further in cooperation with the municipalities. At the moment, there is already a lot of additional communication about the basic rules in the neighbourhoods where the vaccination rate is lowest. I will look, I want to promise her, whether we can extend that to the municipalities where the infections are generally the highest or the fastest rising. There was also the proposal to organise local Catshuis sessions where all kinds of groups come together. This type of consultation is ongoing with the municipalities, the security regions, entrepreneurs and sectors. All the measures we are considering will be tested for, for example, persistence and behavioural aspects. Nevertheless, I find the suggestion made interesting, I thought by Mr Stoffer. We're gonna think about it. I must say, of course, that we cannot organise this from above. This concerns local networks and local administrators. They know best what's needed and who to invite to the table. Of course we will not be able to be there all by ourselves, because then there will be two sick messages; not because of corona, fortunately. But we're gonna see how we can organize that. I would also like to say that we have worked very intensively with the municipalities in the field of communication. Mr. Chairman. This is in response to the package of measures. I will come to the approach of these months, after questions may still be raised from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u349	All right. First of all, I will give the floor to Mrs Agema and then to Mr Van Haga, Mrs Van Esch, Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u350	I see that the Prime Minister has actually been thinking about fighting the number of infections for 20 months by reducing the number of movements. So he thinks the number of movements should be reduced. I also understand the Prime Minister for a very large part, because if people don't meet, the virus can't jump over anyway. But what I do miss here is moving insight, which is the difference between inside and outside when you move around, the difference between good and poorly ventilated spaces when it comes to inner spaces, and the use of CO meters. I would ask the Minister, while we have been in the crisis for 20 months, to make that distinction a little more frequent. Because of course you can move without hitting people, or you can meet people in a safe way. Shouldn't we put more emphasis on that now that we know the virus better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u351	In general, yes, but not this week, because the number of infections is simply so awfully high, and record after record is established. So, unfortunately, we have to do everything we can to reduce that number of contact moments inside and outside, during transport and when we are somewhere, in a decent way, without stopping social life. Luckily, a lot can go on. We think we can really hit the virus with this package. Of course, the advice on working at home and the home visit are also very important. But now, I think, we don't have the luxury of cutting scissors, because unfortunately the blow we have to hand out is too big right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u352	There's no point in taking pointless measures, is there? It doesn't make sense to move out when people are just out in the open along the football field line? What's the point of that? It makes sense that when people go to a room, that space is poorly ventilated and then they are breathing each other's breath. The cabinet has introduced the concept of "breath circle," which I find very useful. If you want to take out that kind of contact moments or start making demands on indoor spaces when it comes to CO meters, then you're making sense, I think. But if you just say "no more moving, ready," you're really restricting the free movement of society without curbing those infections. After twenty months, now that we know that virus a lot better, isn't it time... We know that to get infected in the outdoors you really should start kissing a stranger, and that the chances of infections inside are very high when people are in a tight space. So shouldn't there be some more moving insight into the approach to try to reduce the infections, because otherwise it doesn't work? Today there were another 20,000 plus infections. If we don't integrate that moving insight and don't come up with "think about your breathing circle and open a window," it will of course remain as strong as today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u353	I agree with that in itself when it comes to a situation where the number of infections is manageable, but not with this large number. Then I can't. The basic rules apply now, of course. So the ventilation, one of the four basic icons on our cathedrals at the press conference, is fully standing. At Geert Wilders' suggestion, I paid some extra attention to this last Friday, and I'm sure there's more to be done. So I agree with Mrs Agema, but the number of infections is now so high that, unfortunately, we have to reduce contacts substantially on a very broad front. Those movements are also part of the sport and unfortunately also belong to the public, because people move there and sometimes also go in there, for example because they have to go to the bathroom. All that kind of contact moments brings with them risks. In the meantime, one in five people who are tested have corona. So it means it's really raging.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u354	"Because the number of infections is very high." Isn't that a reason to start doing all kinds of things? Last year, when we all couldn't do anything anymore and we went for a walk in the woods, in the dunes or on the beach, we really experienced that it was just not recommended to do this. Even parks were closed. I mean, the Prime Minister must be ready to say: 'Yes, it is very bad now and there are a lot of infections. We need to get them all down. And yes, you should not stand in each other's breathing space in inner spaces, but we must be so far apart that beach, park, forest and outdoor air will no longer be seen as danger." Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u355	I don't see park, forest and outdoor air as a danger either, but the problem is that the very large numbers of people who are involved in amateur sport and also in professional sport are just too many at the moment. Over the next few weeks, we really need to see if we can get the number of infections down. Of course we're learning. Also at the larger lockdown, in March and April last year, we said: keep sports, keep walking and keep enjoying the outdoors, but please do it in very small groups, with your own family or with one other; very limited and at 1.5 meters. Of course, that's what we've learned from. We haven't said yet: you can't go hiking with a good friend. We're just saying don't stand by the line at a sports game, because that's just not wise right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u356	I shall continue with the interruptions by Mrs van der Plas and Mrs Agema. Of course it is complete nonsense in the outdoors, but I would also like to say a few words about the 1,250 people in one room compared to the 75 students who are now allowed to be in one room at the universities. I don't quite understand. What's the ratio behind that? If you can place 1,250 people in a concert hall, don't you have to be able to give education that space?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u357	We have, of course, looked at these sectors differently. In education, half a million students are in HBO and university education and another 450,000 in MBO. These are very large numbers and very large numbers of movements. You don't really want to limit that. But in order to reduce the risk, we have said that the larger lectures are not now, at least up to that maximum. Culture is, of course, about a few evenings when someone has a series at a theatre company or another cultural expression. That's replaced with all kinds of other conditions. We have said that this can continue in itself, but it must be limited in scope. We do this mainly to prevent popples from saying "we're going to offer a place," because then you could still bring thousands and thousands of people in there. Hence the maximation at 1,250.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u358	I think that could be done for students. Besides, you're talking about a group of people who barely suffer from corona. I think you really need to change your attitude and take other measures. Anyway, I have another question. I asked Mrs De Vries the same question, and it did not come out entirely. That's about those shop closing hours, essential stores at 8:00 and non-essential stores at 6:00. So you're stalling the time when people can be inside. Probably the same number of people will still enter and this measure will give you more people per unit of time. Isn't that totally counterproductive? Wouldn't it have been better if we had decided to let those stores be more open, so you'd let fewer people in per unit of time? I hope you have an answer, because Mrs De Vries did not come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u359	She came out fine, by the way, I thought, but no, I do not agree with Mr Van Haga. Unfortunately, you can also see that in the next few weeks you will have to impose some restrictions, because of the high number of infections. It's no different. That is why we have made a distinction between food and non-food matters. That's right. In doing so, we have chosen to link the food business to the closing time of the catering industry. You are indeed doing so in order to reduce the number of contacts and the number of movements there. It may also prevent people from making that visit at that time. This is, of course, detrimental to the economy. I understand that, but it is inevitable that there will be such effects, hence the economic aid packages. We're dealing with so many infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u360	Finally, perhaps a bit of a rhetorical question. Has the Prime Minister calculated how many fewer infections this potential will create and did the Prime Minister calculate the collateral damage this time? I suspect that the answer is again the same as in all these debates, namely that the collateral damage has not been taken into account and that the number of infections that may be prevented by it has not been calculated. Anyway, I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u361	I have already said that, although we are dealing today with gross over 20,000 infections after post-calculation. Those are absolute record figures. This means that you have to try to stimulate people across a broad front to reduce the number of contact moments, so that the virus can't jump over. We do this partly with advice and partly also by limiting the number of opportunities you can come together, also by law. That's what we're doing here, and that's what we need to do, because we're trying to finally get that R back around one or under one. That is, of course, quite a step backwards, as it is now about 1,19 to 1,21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u362	This can't go away from my interruptions, Mr. President. I ask a question and there comes a very nice story about R-values and I know what it is, but that was not my question at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u363	Perhaps you could ask your specific question one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u364	In my view, Mr Van Haga wants to know whether you can calculate by measure exactly what it does. That's not possible. What you know from all evidence of fighting these kinds of pandemics, where the transfer takes place this way, is that you have to try to limit the number of times it can take place as much as possible. You do that also knowing that not everyone adheres to the basic measures. Of course, that's the lesson from the whole lockdown. But Mrs Agema is right; in there, of course, you also gain experience with what works better and which works less well. But what always works well is that we know that in general we reduce the number of movements, especially when it comes to the very large numbers. That's commute. That's the visit at home. That's a sport visit. That's the sport itself, but we didn't want to get it. And that, of course, is the catering industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u365	Finally. This is quite disgusting, isn't it? This means that measures are simply being taken haphazardly. RIVM models everything. We get to see all kinds of weird estimates and pictures, based on models that we don't see and that never come true. But you have to be able to model by measure. You should at least be able to ask the RIVM to model it, to do the math. On that basis, of course, you choose which measure might be best. I agree with Mrs Agema, because now we are simply doing things that we do not know at all whether it makes sense. We're banning people from going outdoors to sports. We're banning students all kinds of things. We're closing the catering business while only 2.9% of the infections were traced back to the catering industry. And the Prime Minister tells me here: no, we can't figure that out; we're just doing something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u366	No, it's not like that. Here's what I'm saying. For example, the catering industry involves millions of contact moments per week. It is, of course, a very large sector where we all like to go. The number of infections is limited there. But if there are clusters, they are also very large clusters. Moreover, there is a real problem with compliance with that corona ticket in decent parts of the hospitality industry. So, of course, we took that into account. But what's even more important is the fact that we're dealing with very large numbers. We finally chose not to close at 6 p.m. or 7 p.m., but to do so at 8 p.m. Of course, this is a poor consolation and hardly a solution for the restaurants. I realize that. Unfortunately, however, we have little opportunity to do so very generously here, because it really involves a very large number of infections. This means that it is not just about the locations themselves, but also about the movements. People have to go there. They're on the tram, on the bus, or maybe with friends in the car. Maybe they're in the car, too, and that's not gonna happen. But it's all about the sum totals. When they're outside, they go in to the bathroom. If they're exercising, they're gonna change inside. Sometimes they have to assist children. All that stuff, that number of contact moments, you're trying to bring back. You don't do that for fun, but because otherwise we have an unsustainable health care situation at the moment. You want to avoid a crisis there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u367	In any case, I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for his very clear answer. He said that a decision on the ban on fireworks will be taken this week or early next week. I think it's good to do that as soon as possible. I would like to make a plea for this, because then entrepreneurs will know as soon as possible what will or will not happen in a few weeks' time. We know that this was already the subject of discussion at the Catshuis meeting last week. Then there was still a wait for an OMT advice. The OMT has made it very clear that it cannot give an opinion on this matter. My brief question is: what is left now? Is this being discussed again? What stands in the way of a decision now? Is there any waiting for specific advice? What stands in the way of taking a decision on this as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u368	I understand that Mrs Van Esch is making a plea for the ban on fireworks; I understand that from her. But I can't tell you what we're gonna do and what our decision is until we've made the decision. And then we'll tell you on what basis we made that decision. There's no point in sharing the sausage in preparation here, because that's all gonna be very messy. And sausage is not allowed with Mrs Van Esch either. Well, there's no point in sharing the vegetable dish in preparation here. Once the decision has been made, we will come out with it: promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u369	Thank you. I'm just gonna take a quick look at Mrs. Van den Berg. No, she's not interrupting. I shall now give Mrs Kuik the floor. Then Mrs Westerveld will speak, and then Mr Stoffer will speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u370	The Prime Minister made a comment about "the communication of the Cabinet and the undersigned." Was that the cabinet's learning ability block? Or can we perhaps expect a little more reflection on the fact that two years after the start of a pandemic we run into the same things again? The GGD says they're up against the maximum test capacity. Boosters are late. Care workers are getting even more in trouble. The source and contact search is out of order. I may have to go on for a while, but I think my message is clear. So I hope to see a little more self-reflection. I hope to hear a little more than just "the communication of the cabinet and yours truly might have been a little better and I will consult with municipalities."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u371	The latter was about something else and only got away from it. But I did intend to come back later to the question of what lessons we can draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u372	Fine. Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld. No, I see she doesn't want to interrupt. I call Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u373	It's good that the Prime Minister responds so positively to my request to organise local Cathouse sessions. I certainly do not want to do it to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister to attend them all. I think we also have excellent mayors in the Netherlands, so I see the lead there. Let me clarify a little bit of what I am referring to, because I actually thought I would do it in a motion, but I do not think that is necessary with such a fine undertaking. So it is really about these basic measures and if we may have to do more in the longer term, then of course you have a local embedding. In Nunspeet, where I live, I think that is of quite a different order than here in The Hague, where I also regularly stay a number of nights, or in Gouda or wherever. So I'm sure that'll work very nicely locally. It's good to have a positive response. My tip is that this can be set up together with the VNG and my question is whether this can be put back in a letter of inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u374	Yes. I think I should put this in the bosom of the Minister for Foreign Affairs so that she can consult with the UNG and perhaps ask Mr Stoffer if he has any specific suggestions. Then we'll put that in a progress letter or she'll come back to it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u375	Then we'll go to the strategy section.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u376	That's right. Let's get back to the situation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u377	But before you go there, Mr Omtzigt would like to ask a question. Then we'll go to strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u378	As a result of this dialogue, I had asked the question of having conversations with three groups of people. Those are the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u379	Hugo de Jonge comes back to that. It's in his pile. I heard the question, but I didn't see the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u380	All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u381	To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u382	Let's talk about the situation right now and how we're gonna get there. We also spoke in September. We then published the autumn approach and talked to the Chamber. We have said that there are actually three major scenarios conceivable for this autumn. There could be an endemic situation. That's one extreme. There may also be the risk of a breakthrough through immunity. That's also something you absolutely don't hope for. An endemic situation might still be desirable, but most likely is a scenario in which you can deal with revivals along different levels. We have also given some indications as to the number of hospital beds and ic-beds. First, on the strategy of the cabinet. From the start of the crisis, it has always been the maximum control of the corona outbreak, with the three objectives: to prevent care from doing other important services, to ensure that people with vulnerable health are protected and to keep an eye on the spread of the virus. It was said that we had gone against the OMT in September, but that is not the case. We then followed the OMT's preferred scenario in the 126th opinion. On that basis, we discussed here in September the decisions we made, knowing that the OMT also said that this might lead to a possible increase in the number of infections in the autumn. That is what we are seeing all over Europe. Even in Spain and Portugal, it's going up again these days. Germany has the highest incidence since the outbreak of the crisis. Austria, Belgium, us too, Denmark; all of Europe has to do with this. It was also quite conceivable in itself that this could happen. That was also stated in the OMT opinion of September. When we saw that we threatened to achieve the values of that level'seriously' from that approach in the autumn, we obviously had to take decisions to make matters more difficult, of course within the doctrine of proportionality. This ultimately led to the supplementary package last Friday. What could you possibly learn from it? I think that the approach in which you look at the different indicators and how it works, taking into account the fact that there is always a risk of getting up, is not in itself a wrong approach. However, as we said in the previous debate, the degree of emergence, the number of hospital occupancys and the number of infections were at the top of the expectations that the Outbreak Management Team had when it advised us about the packages. I think, if you look back on that, we could have done a few things differently, but we need to look at that longer to learn lessons from it. One is that we should have said even more strongly in September: if you decide this, the Netherlands will know that there are new infections. That was also in the OMT advice. I think we said that, but we could have said that more firmly. We could probably have brought that to the fore at that time, even more so than we have done. We should have warned more about it and paid attention to that risk. At the same time, you know, of course, that is the point that I have just made, that in fact, you do not have as many problems as the basic measures are properly respected. In the combination of the decision-making process in September and the knowledge that the numbers could rise again, it was simply not enough to highlight the importance of the basic measures. I am not suggesting that the balance between these measures would have changed, but you will have to learn lessons again for the future. The Minister of VWS will speak shortly about the long-term strategy and how we are going to respond to the reports we have received, including from the Academy and the WRR. This is the first quarter of next year and the long-term approach. For the short term, the following applies. In this three-week cycle, until 3 December, it is important to reduce the increase in the number of infections. Unfortunately, there are more than we had hoped. That is why we are taking these measures. Hugo de Jonge will go into 2G and the extension of the CTB so much more extensively. That's what's in his answer. It is not that these measures reduce the number of infections by definition, but it is a very heavy watchflame. There's no point in that watchflame right now, because there's just too many infections. That's why you need to hit now, because the number of infections needs to be reduced. We hope, of course, that we will see positive results at the end of November or early December. If that works, you also need to talk about a situation where you can handle that watchflame properly. This includes the instruments that are part of the piece that Hugo de Jonge will take care of. It will then have to move forward in the longer term. What does that mean for the first quarter of next year for the further handling of the virus? So much for the situation in September, the measures we need to take now and the way in which we will continue over the next six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u383	First Mr Hijink van de SP, then Mr Kuzu van DENK and then Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals. First Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u384	I would like to talk about the objectives of the cabinet itself. The cabinet wants to be able to control as much as possible, but it can't do that for a second. The number of infections has increased by about ten in two months. The other objective was to protect vulnerable people. There are again many vulnerable people, especially the elderly, in the hospital. Many elderly people are now calling on care, vaccinated and unvaccinated, because they are infected. Keeping an eye on the virus has also completely failed. The test capacity is now at its max and the source and contact research has stopped in many places. People only get an e-mail or a message that says they're infected. All three of the cabinet's objectives are failing. I would like to ask the Prime Minister exactly what the purpose is, what the numbers he sends on for the next few weeks and for the next few weeks. Yesterday we heard Jaap van Dissel say: we want to stabilize. It has obviously been said that we can sustain the number of 300 people on the ic for a while. If we could stabilize that, that would be super nice. Does the Prime Minister find 300 people permanently on the ic also a good goal? I'm just talking about corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u385	What you need to achieve is a level at which you control the virus with a mix of basic measures, the corona pass and, hopefully, elements of 2G in the longer term. 2G does not extend to the work or places where people have to go in. Anyway, Hugo de Jonge will go into that in a moment. That image came into being a little bit. The number of people entering the hospital should really go down, because that's just too high right now. That's now above the value of 25 on the ICU and 100 in the hospital. You should preferably go back to under 10 on the ic and under 40 in the hospital. You just can't say that in black and white, because you end up looking at what's happening in the context of all the measures. Are you okay? What happens abroad? What happens to the picture of compliance with the basic measures? The first indication after Friday is a lot more positive when it comes to working at home, but we will have to see if that will last. It'll be a mix, but you're also looking at what's happening in the hospitals. I'm not saying we don't send for the infections. We also continue to control the infections, but in the end that is a context factor. The primary indicator we need to send to now is the hospitals, because then you can see what it does. The link between the number of infections and the number of hospitalisations is still far too volatile in a situation where more than 85% has been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u386	I'm sorry about this. It's like throwing in a quarter and then coming out a lot of mumbling. This is in no way an answer to the questions I am asking. I'm asking very specific questions. What are the numbers and what is the R-value this cabinet sends to? The Prime Minister said earlier that the reproduction factor should be reduced by 20%. Van Dissel said the same yesterday. So you send to an R-value from on or just below 1. That's the stabilisation Van Dissel was talking about. But that means, I think, that it is important that people who are following this debate realize that we are not going to improve the situation in care and that we are not going to substantially reduce the number of recordings, but that we are going to stabilise at a structurally high level, a level of concern that is currently saying, "We cannot do this at all. We need to postpone operations. We have to keep driving ambulances because there is no place because the emergency is full." The Prime Minister says the goal is to bring it down a little bit, but if you really want the care to be able to take it back, then it shouldn't be a bit down, but substantial. So I ask the Prime Minister again: does he send that R value of 1 so that we stabilize at a very high level, or is his goal really that it should go further down? If so, how the hell is he gonna do that in the three weeks he's been telling people like a sausage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u387	What you want in the end is that the number of hospital recordings is actually going to decrease, as I just said. You can't just look at that. It is a very important indicator, because I say again the number of infections is a less reliable figure at the moment. So it's an important indicator, but you always do it in the context of compliance and how it develops, even abroad. What can we learn from the way the virus develops in other countries with a vaccination rate above 80%? So you can't just say, "I'm going on one number." But it is very important that the reproduction factor falls by 20%, so that it can go back from 1.2 to 1 or even slightly lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u388	If the cabinet seriously believes that the number of recordings should be substantially reduced, even if you don't send them, and if we want to go back from 260, 270 recordings today to the 40 that the Prime Minister has in mind, then we have to halve another three times before we get there. If the R-value the Prime Minister sends to is about on 1, then that halfing is not going to take three weeks but many months. Even if we have an R-value that's around 0.8, you have at least six, maybe eight weeks left to get to that level of those 40 shots a day. So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister why he's not telling people fairly. Why doesn't he just say: if this is our goal, then this is the package of measures that goes with it and this is the deadline for achieving that goal? He should not turn people's minds by now saying 'we are going to introduce measures for three weeks', when they are not really enough to really achieve the goal, and to keep people from changing after those three weeks. He knows that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u389	No, but it is not, also because unfortunately it is not so black and white to paint. That's what the OMT says, in the 129th opinion of 11 November. The OMT has looked at different scenarios based on the current situation. They also say that it is a fact that we have to live with, that these scenarios have a great margin of uncertainty, with a wide range of possible values that are both within and outside the available care capacity. In short, they do not think there are any guarantees. That is why they say: you need to take additional measures now; you need to hit the virus a big blow to reduce the risk of overloading the care. It is not even certain that if we had not taken those measures, the care would certainly be overloaded by now, but the risk was simply too great. That is why we are taking these measures. We are the first to do this in Europe. There are no other countries yet that have taken lockdown-like measures. The Netherlands is now the first in this, because we did not want to take that risk. This is important to ensure that you also have quality care in the longer term. In doing so, we broadly followed the advice of the OMT last Friday, including the advice on the retail trade, the 1.5 meters and so on. We now assume that this is enough to get over that peak and then reduce it. There are no guarantees now. This means that we will eventually have to weigh the whole package and the situation in its entirety again towards 3 December. This is not just about the epidemiological picture, but also, of course, about social and other consequences. Proportionality is at the forefront of this. We're not sending that one number, but it's important that the exponentiality of the reproductive factor gets out. That reproduction factor really needs to go back to 1 and preferably even lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u390	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. Does the Prime Minister now agree with the words of Mr Van Dissel that we are calling for a reduction in the ic occupation of at least 300? Maybe the occupation goes down even further, but does he think that 300 is an acceptable number to last for a long time? That is what Mr Van Dissel said yesterday. Does the Prime Minister agree to this? Does he also accept that the pressure on care and the ic, which is associated with such numbers, may remain so high at that level, perhaps for the rest of the winter, regardless of what this means for other hospitalizations, home care, care and institution care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u391	No. I cannot say yes to that, because we really want to look at the whole picture in two weeks, in three weeks, towards 3 December. Then we want to weigh all the factors together again and then we want to see how the Outbreak Management Team predicts the situation in the care, how it develops, what the R-value is. We will look at all these matters in conjunction. So I can't take that number, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u392	I think it is important that we look not only at the short term, at 3 December, but also at the long term. That's what the Minister of Health is about to answer. Anyway, I'll mention two motions. A motion by Mr Azarkan on 15 December 2020 called for a long-term strategy. It was not necessary at the time; that motion was dissuaded. On 13 January 2021, a long-term strategy and a longer-term perspective were requested. It was not necessary at the time; that motion was also dissuaded. The political parties, perhaps well-known, voted against it. Now that the Prime Minister is setting out three scenarios for the autumn and we are currently in yet another wave, what is the perspective for winter, spring and perhaps autumn in 2022? Are we going to take freedom-limiting measures every time a wave occurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u393	Of course, that cannot be predicted exactly at the moment. You know that there is a completely different situation due to the fact that so many people have been vaccinated, leading to a dramatic decrease among vaccinees in the risk of hospitalisation, let alone in intensive care. It's not without risk, but the risk is significantly lower than if you haven't been vaccinated. There is a different situation with that. You also don't know if there are any other developments around the virus. As I have just said, this is also one of the reasons why Hugo de Jonge will probably discuss more procedurally than in terms of content why, apart from the decision-making process towards 3 December, we also see a path ahead of us on how we are going to react more fundamentally and structurally, including the opinions of the Academy and other bodies, such as the WRR, on the prospects for the longer term. Of course, this can always be seen in the light of the question: what is the vaccination rate, how strong does the vaccine hold and what do the boosters do? We will also be getting more information on this in the coming months. We will get more insights into it, but the picture we see in the Netherlands today is the picture of the whole of Europe. Germany today has an incidence of over 300, which is a record since the start of the crisis. The weekly incidence was 1,500 today in the state of Tyrol in Austria. And since yesterday we also have the first figures from Portugal and Spain. These figures are now beginning to rise considerably, two weeks after the Netherlands and North-West Europe. In that respect, therefore, we all have to deal with it. That is what the OMT said in September, when it presented to us its preferred scenario, that we followed. Then they also said that this could lead to a revival of the virus in the coming winter. They also said that we would need the broad deployment of the CTB in order to operate on the watch flame to the maximum. But it can happen; that's what you see all over Europe. We also see that it is more intense and faster than we had hoped and expected at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u394	Of course, we don't have a glass ball. The Prime Minister can't predict the future, and I can't. No one in this room can. As a historian, the Prime Minister will have to acknowledge that we can learn lessons from the past and from the recent past for the future. In that recent past we see that last year around this period we were at a vaccination rate of 0.0%. Now we are at a vaccination rate of 85% and at the same time we see that the occupation in care is still immense and the absolute figures are still high. They may even be much higher than last year. My question is therefore, following my first question: why do we do the same every time? When we look at last year's situation and this year's situation, we see that we take freedom-limiting measures every time, which now brings groups of people against each other. So what is this long-term perspective that will allow us to paint a picture of the future for the Netherlands, not only until 3 December but also for this winter, spring and autumn 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u395	I have said that we will say more procedurally on this matter today. In substance, that will take a little more time. But, of course, there is a very big difference from last autumn. First of all, last year around Christmas the English version entered and early this year the delta variant. So the first virus we had to deal with last year is a cuddly history. We're dealing with a much more intense variant. We also had a much heavier lockdown at that time. During this time last year, the catering industry was completely closed, starting in mid-October. We have a completely different situation now. Why? Because, despite the English variant and the delta variant, more than 85% of the Netherlands has also been vaccinated. You can see that this has a huge impact on the risk of hospitalization and the risk of icing. What we need to learn in the near future, including with our colleagues in Europe, is to gain an even more accurate understanding of the relationship between the number of infections and the number of people entering the hospital. What does that ultimately mean for the kind of measures you're taking? Can you suffice to hope that you will, of course, have a watch flame, consisting of such a corona access card supplemented with other measures, so that you can avoid lockdown-like measures as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u396	Let's talk about this long-term strategy. That's what it was about two weeks ago. It was then indicated that in the first quarter of next year there will be a substantive response to the reports that have been available since the beginning of September. In fact, our group feels that this is too late, because we have been seeing these reports for months and have been seeing very clear opinions in them for months. As far as we are concerned, the long-term strategy is essential to the choices you are making today. I wonder if the outgoing Prime Minister will be able to respond to that. When you have a long-term strategy, you might consider something other than 2G, 1G or 3G. The moment you have a long-term strategy to use prevention more, which I have been trying to do for some time, you could make different policy choices today. So I am curious to see if there can be another reflection on this, because I miss that long-term strategy so much in the choices that we should be making today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u397	Yeah, but that's where I see a problem. Moreover, I would ask that this question be put to Hugo de Jonge, because he does that part of the answer. I've said that a few times. But that is the aspect that we all see at the moment, of course, that it is much faster in Europe than was expected in September. This applies to all colleagues in Europe. Everyone I speak has exactly the same experiences as the Netherlands. It is now even beginning to rise in Spain and Portugal and they have a very high vaccination rate. This also provides information that you need to be able to give a good response to these reports in the end. That current situation we have now needs to be incorporated into it. Anyway, Hugo de Jonge will elaborate on that. So I'm really gonna leave it at that. We chose that division of roles, so let's do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u398	Something is already going wrong in the more fundamental approach. I heard the Demissionary Health Minister last press conference telling healthcare workers that it's like a marathon: when you're almost there, you have to walk another 10 kilometers. That shows that the cabinet always thinks we're almost there, that we need to go further. If we listen to experts, to epidemiologists, they say it's not a marathon, but we have to assume that the virus is permanent, that we have to find a way to deal with that virus and that we have to run that marathon again next year. I would then like to ask the outgoing Prime Minister how he sees it, especially since, of course, we will have to vote on a number of rather far-reaching laws in the coming weeks. Is that gonna be every fall? Are we gonna be sitting on the floor every fall with 2G or with a corona pass? How does that fit in with the cabinet strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u399	I really want to ask Hugo the Young to ask this. That's exactly how we split it up. I've said it three times already. Then I'm gonna stand and freestyle. I really don't. I'm really gonna leave it to Hugo the Young. I would like to say one thing about it, and that is that all my fellow Members in Europe are dealing with this question exactly. When Hugo de Jonge talks about the marathon on Friday, he means that both now and in the care we are in danger of seeing very high numbers again and we therefore have to decide again on measures that come out of the box of the lockdown. It's not a lockdown, but it's lockdown-like measures. Of course, you work towards a situation where you try with a strong flame to avoid as many flickers as possible. We knew that with the September package the risk of increasing contamination rates was present this autumn. That's what the OMT said. We knew that. The question is just what kind of lessons you can draw from the fact that it is heavier and bigger than we assumed at the time. This applies to the whole of Europe. You're gonna have to learn those lessons. You also need to let those lessons be part of the ultimate longer-term strategy. In addition, the OMT is quite clear about this, even in September, that a corona access card, that type of measures, is necessary as part of the watch flaming. Hugo de Jonge will focus more on how this continues in December. He also addresses the questions that have been asked about extending the CTB, 2G and then how we can now learn lessons from these weeks, so that we can respond informed and intelligently to the advice from KNAW and WRR. That's what he's going into in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u400	There is a reason why I am asking this question to the outgoing Prime Minister, because he may soon be the new head of the Netherlands. This is a very fundamental question. It has to do not only with what we learn from the past, but also with how we will deal with each other in the future. What will now be the long-term strategy? Are we going to work with 2G every year in the fall? We are about to vote on a number of very far-reaching laws. The Cabinet would like to deal with the Chamber within two weeks. That's a very short period of time. I hear every time in the cabinet communication that this may be necessary now. My fear is, in my opinion, that I am not the only one there who believes that this is not a law right now, but that these are laws that we will need all the time. That's why I'm asking that question to our outgoing Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u401	What we know at the moment is that the expected increase in the number of infections in September was more intense than we thought, which is why we have to give this blow. Then you want to further strengthen the watch flame that we had in September, namely the broad deployment of the corona pass, literally so advised by the OMT and taken over by the cabinet. That is why there are a number of proposals for this, including in the form of legislation. We'll try to discuss it with the Chambers as soon as possible. Why? If we can really reduce the number of infections in the next few weeks, the watchflame can replace it, not because it works in itself lowering, but because it prevents flickering and so on. That's why it's so important. I fully understand Mrs Westerveld's question. I can't predict that now either. I can imagine that the question that you regularly discuss in Parliament's debate in the context of the longer-term perspectives is what this means for the instruments that you have for the coming months. How do you prevent some kind of permanence from getting in there? I totally get that. I hope, however, that Mrs Westerveld will not make it clear to me that I do not know this exactly now. If we couldn't predict the exact speed of the rise in September and we're all surprised that it's heavier than we thought in September, then it's completely impossible to say anything about next autumn. But I do understand that the Chamber wants to keep its finger on the tap. I expect that will also be part of the parliamentary debate. If there are such measures, they should not be automatically extended indefinitely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u402	We could have predicted it. In September, the cabinet took greater risks than the OMT recommended. The OMT had a number of scenarios back then. The cabinet relaxed faster and more than the OMT then advised. A number of experts I regularly speak to indicate: assume that that virus remains among us. That is why these questions are so essential. I would very much like to know what we are going to be dealing with in the near future. Is that just a hammer from the toolbox we need for the next three months or is that something permanent? That seems to me to be a very essential question. I would very much like to get an answer to that tonight, because in the next few weeks as a Chamber we are going to have a lot of legislative proposals with a lot of work to do and with a lot of responsibility that also comes to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u403	Mr De Jonge will return to that very specific question in a moment. I'd like to defend one thing, as a chamber and cabinet. The 126th opinion of the Outbreak Management Team included three scenarios. The OMT's preferred scenario was the third scenario. That was also the scenario the cabinet followed. In that scenario, the OMT has said: you must all bear in mind that this may lead to a revival of the virus in the coming winter. Only, with the predictions of the extent to which that happens, we are all surprised that it is more intense and that you are at the top of expectations. That is why it is now necessary to give a blow. You want to learn lessons from that. This is currently the case for the whole of Europe, for all the countries involved. I call Germany. The day after tomorrow Angela Merkel would come to Holland. That's not gonna happen. It is consulting the Länder on the measures to be taken there, because there are now serious concerns about the overload of intensive care capacity in Germany. This is a problem we all have, so you can all learn lessons from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u404	It is not my intention at all to point the finger now. But we're not all surprised. A very large part of this Chamber said at the end of September: with what the cabinet is doing now, with the measures proposed by the cabinet now, with the facilitations combined with the corona ticket, the cabinet is increasing and accelerating, so we do not agree with that. That is indeed what a large part of this Chamber said at the time and what we are seeing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u405	Yeah, I agree. The only point I made was that we did not deviate from the OMT opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u406	Mrs Simons van Bij1, then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u407	I would like to make a point of order. In his term, the outgoing Prime Minister answers everything in blocks and announces a block of strategy. I am pleased that Mrs Westerveld has asked through and that she has been able to ask her questions to the outgoing Prime Minister. But if the block is called "strategy" and MPs get to hear every question "I'm not about that," I find it at least confusing. The outgoing Prime Minister answers questions about the strategy or not. But this is a little tricky. I have a limited number of interruptions. Where should I put them? I would like to deal with this more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u408	Maybe the Prime Minister can report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u409	Absolutely. That is a good question from Mrs Simons. I totally get it. I thought I said, but perhaps not clear enough, that I would outline two aspects of the approach. One: what is the overall strategy again from the start of the corona crisis? I've outlined it. Mrs Simons and I have had this debate before. Secondly, I have said that I will deal with the situation as it is from September, since the 126th opinion of the Outbreak Management Team, until today, and with the progress towards 3 December. Then Hugo de Jonge will discuss the following. If it's gonna work, we can give the blow to the virus and control the numbers of infections, what's it gonna take in what I call a domestic "watch flame"? That is the whole discussion about whether or not to extend the CTB, whether or not to extend it from 3G to 2G, the relationship with 1G et cetera. I also said that everything in the context of the longer term is going to be our strategy, also on the basis of the advice of the Academy and the WRR.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u410	Yes. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Simons. Is it that clear? I thought it was a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u411	Yes, it was a very fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u412	It was a bit of a search for the MPs. I saw that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u413	Yes, and it doesn't make it any better, because once again, I have a limited number of interruptions. I can dedicate two to the outgoing Prime Minister, who may say: no, but for that particular question you must be with Mr. De Jonge. So I'm a few more interruptions. It doesn't make it any easier for me. I just want to discuss the strategy with the one I need to discuss the strategy with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u414	I think it would be useful now to ask the Minister of Health that sort of question. And I don't count all this as interruptions, if that's what you're afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then a small profit warning to Mr De Jonge: I would be very sorry if he referred to the Prime Minister in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u416	Hey, now his strategy's gone, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u417	I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt. No? Mrs. Gündoğan and then Mrs. Kuik. And please don't ask about the strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u418	That's what I'm gonna do. 'Cause I was just saying in my input, keep it simple, stupid. We're in this pandemic for 20, 21 months, continuously with this unclear way of communicating exactly what is now being sent to. Is it sent to infections or hospitalizations? Keep an eye on Europe or not. As a Member of Parliament, I find it confusing. How should this country, when we really dare to establish by a majority that this pandemic will last even longer...Bright communication also means that we have clear targets, know where we want to go and know what we find. I spoke to him. I can just say his name. Frits Rosendal about this, epidemiologist at the LUMC. He said to me: "Nilüfer, at the beginning of October, the increase in infections should have been dealt with if you sent for infections. If you send for hospitalizations, you should have intervened in mid-October." That didn't happen. It wasn't until the end of October that the OMT got together. So I would very much like to know from the Prime Minister what the strategy is. What clarity? I also know all ifs and buts from the epidemiologists. That's internal, to refine it. We have the task of communicating clearly to the outside world. That's what a lot of countries do. Denmark, for example, is doing this very clearly. Then they also dare to say clearly: now we are going to put on the reins. So I want clear communication now, so that 17 million people know what they are up to, because then we can also have clear compliance and enforcement. That clarity also begins with the cabinet, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u419	It's a fair question. Once again, the strategy has not changed since the outbreak of the crisis. We are referring to the three factors I have just mentioned, namely that care should not only be open to corona but should also be able to do the other work, protect people with vulnerable health and keep an eye on the spread of the virus. When local pockets arise from major outbreaks, you try to stamp them out. That's why you want to keep an eye on the virus. We then published our whole approach for this autumn. I just sketched it. Of course, you have a chance it's gonna be endemic. There is also a risk of a break in immunity, but most likely is that there will be a scenario of revival, because that is also in line with the opinion issued by the OMT in September. We followed that advice at the time. It has also been said that you have to take into account a revival of the virus. Then there are the hospitalizations and the contagions. It has also been mentioned in this approach that we are looking at the seven-day average, in fact, as all European countries do. Then we look at hospital and ic recordings as primary indicators for taking or not taking action. In this approach, we have also said that we are also looking at other contexts in the administrative balance in order to arrive at measures. One of these contexts is indeed the number of infections. The RIVM has also told us that, given the increasing vaccination rate, it is becoming increasingly complicated to take measures based on the number of infections, because you do not know how that number of infections affects other factors. You can now see that an increasing proportion of the population has been vaccinated and that an increasing proportion of the population is also protected from the serious consequences of the virus because, unfortunately, they have been through the disease. Anyway, at least they're protected. So that administrative balance is definitely still looking at the number of infections, but that alone is not used as an indicator to take action on that basis. Does that mean we don't send for infections? That's a question that's been asked here. No, all the interventions we are making now are aimed at reducing the number of infections and thereby reducing the number of hospital and ic intakes. Against that background, the OMT advised us to take additional measures a few weeks ago, due to the rising situation in hospitals. We did. That debate took place here on Wednesday two weeks ago, I think. Today we have a debate, because last Friday it turned out, in our decision-making on the basis of the OMT opinion of Thursday, Friday, that it is necessary to take additional measures, for two reasons. We saw that the walk-up in the hospitals went steep after all. The week before, we weren't sure. And two: we also saw that the effect of the behavioral measures we had taken was insufficient. The OMT was absolutely clear about that. On that basis, the OMT has told us that we need to take additional measures, in such a way that you really hit the virus. Plus: you need to think about how to put that, what I call the watch flame, stronger, so expand the CTB, think about 2G and all the other things that are about to be discussed. Of course, that's what you have to consider in the longer-term approach. What does this mean next year? What does this mean for next autumn? If you have an extension of the CTB and 2G, what does that mean for the position of the Chamber to keep running that button later? That's the honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u420	According to the Prime Minister, it may be the honest answer, but it is not a clear answer that meets KISS: keep it simple, stupid. People need it, the world needs it, we know what we're doing and what we're sending on. Ernst Kuipers says very clearly: max 4,000; that really is the upper limit of what this country can handle. Frits Rosendal mentions the same number. I really want to be very clear when we go through such boundaries, with all the ifs and buts and with all the academic considerations. Everyone knows that ifs and buts; that's no use to us. What we need is clarity, clarity, transparency, so that people can easily digest where we stand, when we go through the green and come in the orange and when we absolutely fall into red and heading for a healthcare attack. I think that clarity after 20, 21 months of pandemic and the sixth or seventh wave is definitely in place. As experts, it is time for the cabinet to take this to heart, because we cannot afford it anymore. We are at the bottom of our support for the pandemic approach. I'm really worried. From Volt, I would like to think of tightening up any measures for the future, but not if the basis is not in order, not if the basic measures are so dazzlingly abandoned and the reins are then drawn back. It just can't be. We need clarity. Brightness is the key now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u421	Yeah, but no shimmering clarity either. We can agree, but there's just a risk when you say there's one number, and I'm sending it, and if that number jumps to red, then we're going to take action. Unfortunately, I just can't. Why isn't that possible, for example? Sorry to have to say that, because I totally agree with Mrs Gündoğan that you would. Maybe we can take a closer look at that in the next few weeks. For example, when you take hospital admissions as a primary indicator, you look even further in the rear-view mirror than when you take the number of infections as a primary indicator. If you would only look at the primary indicator of the number of hospital admissions, you also have the risk of being late. One of the reasons why we took the decisions we took last Friday is that there was too much risk in the RIVM forecasts and the OMT advice on how it would develop in the coming weeks. We have said that we cannot take that risk. It is quite possible that we may have taken too many measures at the present time and that it could have been very easy in hospitals without these measures. They do not take these measures in many other countries either. We have said: there is a great uncertainty in the figures and we cannot now steer enough on the infections, so we have to use the hospitals as the main indicator; there is too much deviation, too much uncertainty, at the moment, so we are taking additional measures. We have also made it very clear in the agreements for the autumn that if we go through the number of 25 ic-beds and 100 hospital beds, we are in a "serious" phase. We are in a good position to do so, so there too we have the indicators. I agree with Mrs Gündoğan: let us try to keep it as simple as possible. But that's difficult if you can't control infections, but you have to work with hospital admissions as a main indicator, because there's a bigger delay in that. There is a greater variation in the projections. It is therefore not possible to do very much Kiss now, although I agree with Mrs Gündoğan that you should go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u422	I insist that this is a woolly story with many ifs and buts and exceptions. At the moment, clarity is the key. Even if you had sent in infections, you should have intervened in mid-October. However, I would like to look ahead again and ask for clarity, because we are now rambling towards healthcare. I'm getting stories that are no longer exceptions from ambulances who have to call off five hospitals before they can get rid of their patients somewhere, to say disrespectfully. That's the situation we're in. The LUMC did the math. Now, in this situation, I would really like to get rid of all ifs and buts. I want clarity. I want us to work with a traffic light system, so that we can all, with 17 million people, do our part, instead of always feeling attacked afterwards and hiding behind the exceptions. We're not getting anywhere with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u423	I agree. That traffic light system is there: these are the 25 ic recordings and the 100 hospital beds. When that came to light, we sent our own approach, on the basis of the advice of the OMT and bearing in mind our own approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u424	I must say, I am in awe of listening to the Prime Minister. Suddenly I remembered the debate viewer of our predecessor, Lodewijk Asscher. He had ten opinions for assessing and analysing the Prime Minister's debate skills. Sometimes in the technique diving that we see again come by today sometimes criticize, sometimes ridiculize. I added two more today, namely 'it's always another', 'in Europe they have the same problem' and 'we couldn't predict it'. And when things get really complicated, we refer to the Minister of Health. So we've got 12 now. But let me ask one specific question. No one can act exactly in a crisis, but are "we didn't know, we don't know" and "we should have done communication a little more clearly" really the only lessons the Prime Minister himself draws? Or should I really just look at the health minister? I hope not, because that does not explain why all the test capacity is no longer available and we can run a major risk. That doesn't explain how things are now in the care sector and how everyone's running over their shoes. I hope to hear a little more reflection from the Prime Minister, who will soon be the foreman of all Dutchmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u425	I've just tried to do that, but I'll give it a little more weight. I'll do that along two lines. The first was when we, Chamber and Cabinet, decided in September to follow scenario 3 of the OMT. Not the Chamber, because it is not for that, but the cabinet could have made much more clear that in that scenario there is indeed the proper risk of another revival this autumn. When you look back at the communication of that moment, I think we've radiated too much that... not that it was over, because I don't think we said that. We did say we should just stay sharp. Also, the corona admission ticket replaced it. But the atmosphere at that time was absolutely: well guys, that scenario 3 is very nice; with that we may have a lot of misery behind us. If you look afterwards, I do not think that was wise and that I should have emphasised in the first place that there is still a great risk in that scenario, namely of further revival. Then you can see that this revival... that happened afterwards; we could not see that at that time. I can't blame myself for that. You can see that this revival was even more intense than was expected at the time. That is why we are taking these measures in two steps. The second is something I have been struggling with for a long time: compliance with the basic rules in the Netherlands. It will be me or the communication or the form of the press conference. We've examined everything and reviewed all public communications. We really have the best communication advisors I've ever met in my life helping us, so it's not that. So if things don't go well, you're gonna have to be with me. We do not succeed enough to say something simple but crucial to the Netherlands, for example: "If you have complaints, you will get tested at the GGD and stay at home. Don't go back out there until you're complaints-free. You take care of your whole family and your whole family." Of course, it's also about washing hands and everything else, but it's so crucial. I also call the 1.5 meters and the ventilation, on which I have been endlessly questioned by Geert Wilders. Anyway, it's a more structural problem. There I also had September last year, when Lodewijk Asscher, indeed without debate icons but well... I think he had used that once in the General Reviews, when he asked me about the lessons I could draw. But even then, we have said that it is apparently simply the inability to convey it in such a way that enough people follow it. If you talk to Jaap van Dissel, this is also his incredible frustration. He then says: if we did, so if people just stay at home in complaints and let themselves be tested and, on average, try to keep a little distance from each other, wash their hands and ventilate, then you basically don't need any measures. Maybe you can even do without a CTB and all those other horrible things. But we are not doing enough. That's not just my fault, I'm just saying. I hope you will also see that we have a responsibility in this matter with each other. As the boss of the stuff, as the prime minister of the country, and as the one who is allowed to address millions of people every time, I seem to be unable to do so. That's something I've been looking for. How can you pass that on to anyone else? How can you make that urgency feel? When it comes to the advice to work at home, I am very happy to see that there are so many people, even though there is so much irritation about the whole corona situation, working at home since this morning or yesterday. That's incredibly good news. But these would be my two main points. We should have said in September in the atmosphere of the press and the debate in the Chamber: 'Guys, beware. We're gonna do this. We are behind it and it is also an advice, but there is also a risk that we will take together." In terms of proportionality, this is the way we have to do it. If you were to maintain all kinds of measures now because of a conceivable risk, that would not be real either. But then, I think, even more than we've done, you'd have planted in people's heads that it could go wrong again. That would be my main two lessons about, say, the last two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u426	At least it feels like a little more reflection. I am still critical, also because I felt that in the autumn period, the autumn vacation, should have been dealt with earlier, because the infections were already very high at that time. I have one more sincere question to ask the Prime Minister: does he really believe that the package that is now before us is going to be enough to be ready in three weeks' time? Is that an honest story that we can send people home with, or should we honestly say that it's really looking at coffee and that it's just a question of whether we're gonna make it through this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u427	It's both. You're not sure. You're just not sure. But it is what all the experts we consult say to us: this is what you have to do. Again, if you look very closely at what the OMT advises and at what we do, you will see that there are deviations. On some points we do more, and on some points the OMT does more. I insist that if you weigh it on the hand, we do the same thing. And again, we may not agree that we should have taken measures by October. I believe that, in line with the number of hospital admissions, we have done what we had to do. But, you know, in retrospect, Mrs. Kuik is undoubtedly right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u428	Mrs Simons, BET1. Looking at the time, I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to respond a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u429	I'm gonna answer even shorter, and then I've only got one more question tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u430	That has nothing to do with Mrs Simons, but I would also like to ask you to keep the interruptions a little shorter, because we also have the Minister. The same request will be made in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u431	I have just written along with a number of statements made by the outgoing Prime Minister. What I finally know for sure is that since the beginning of the pandemic "maximize control," for whatever it means, the strategy was. Nothing's changed. But I also keep hearing words like "watchflames" and "flickers prevent" and that after we first had to do it for a long time with "dashboards" and the like. And then I hear the outgoing Prime Minister say that he can use the very best communication advisors he's ever met. Then I'd like to go to that commercial, that government commercial. Because it is being said all day that people do not comply with the corona measures and that we cannot keep to the corona measures. The penultimate commercial, therefore, has not been the commercial since the last Corona debate, in which an explicit request was made to reverse a public campaign, but the ad for it started as follows. The first sentence in that commercial was: "Now that we can release the one and a half meters...". That was just the first sentence in that commercial. You have the very, very, very best communication advisors at your disposal, who communicate to the people that they can release those five feet. Then I think it's just going to go a long way and then blame people for not sticking to that 1.5 meter. That can get me slightly excited; not in the very best sense of the word. I just think that the Dutchman who gets rid of those commercials at home on the couch and thinks: I do what the government asks of me. I just wanted to make that point. Maybe it's good to put it in the theme...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u432	Maybe it's okay if the Prime Minister responds to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u433	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but we've been...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u434	I'd love to, but I wasn't quite finished. Then I'll stick to the theme of communication. Excuse me, I have a predilection for that. I've been in that business for years. Then terms like "we have a watchflame, but we want to avoid flickering" are just not the thing you fight a coronapandemic with which you inform the people about what the right behavior is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u435	It's not about behavioral advice either. It's about how I describe what needs to happen here after hopefully the hammer..... the package that we now have.. will have effect in the next few weeks. I say about the 1.5 meters: we let them go in September. In that sense, that communication was completely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u436	Of course, that communication was correct, but it is going to go a little far. I have heard a number of Members of Parliament say that today, but also this govern ment representative say 'that the rules have not been complied with'. That's what I'm falling over, because people have followed exactly the advice that the government has thrown into the living rooms. Then I am talking about an insult by the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u437	What matters is that all the studies show that, unfortunately, a lot of people who have complaints do not get tested and just go out on the street. Even after they've tested positive, they're still on the streets. The good ones didn't say too much. Fortunately, most people keep to it, but we also have to name the facts. Of course, that's an incredibly important deal we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u438	Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. Not a point of order, but an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u439	No, I'm not gonna keep going; an interruption. I hear the outgoing Prime Minister say that Mr Van Dissel has explicitly said: if we simply maintain the basic measures, wash hands, the 1.5 meters, "Do you have any complaints? Stay home!" If so, there is no need for corona measures at all. I wonder if the outgoing Prime Minister, looking back on the past few months, thinks he has done enough himself to prevent all of this. The outgoing prime minister also says "the boss of the country." That is factually incorrect, but I understand the metaphor. I also understand, of course, that the outgoing Prime Minister has been in the process of forming, and then you may not have all the overview anymore. I wonder how the outgoing Prime Minister himself looks at that. In short, could he have done more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u440	By "the boss of the stuff," I meant "of the cabinet" and not "of the country." Sometimes there are parents with children who say "there is the boss" and I always say: your father is the boss, because he is the voter; I am only a humble servant. That there is no misunderstanding. No, I think I found a good balance between the attention I have to pay to the corona crisis and the formation. My point to Mrs Kuiken was that it simply does not succeed in getting the message across, but that has nothing to do with a time span.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u441	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u442	I hope this doesn't go away from my interruptions, because that wasn't my question. My question was whether the outgoing Prime Minister thinks that he himself has done enough to point out to the Netherlands in recent months that these basic measures are so important, especially now that I hear him literally say that Mr Van Dissel has said: but we are getting rid of them. Then I would say, but who am I, to my communications team, this is what we, you or me, need to communicate. "People, if we're going to do this, we're going to get rid of these measures every day." That's my question. Does the outgoing Prime Minister think he's done enough or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u443	Yeah, but it doesn't have the desired effect. I think so, yes. That is a closed question to answer with yes, but it did not have the desired effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u444	Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u445	I would still like to support Mrs Simons' plea, because I find it a bit of a shame for the citizens to say that they have not been able to stay at home with complaints, but we have put the best communication people on it. Those people just heard the message that they were safe with two shots. Those people heard they didn't have to keep a foot and a half away. Those people heard it was fine to go into a bar everywhere with your QR code, because that way they would be safe. So I find it a little too easy to say to these people: yes, but if you had a complaint, you should have stayed home. We just told those people that it was safe. That communication is done, and I think that's the point. We can discuss this, but that communication has come across to people in that way. I really think that is a point where a reflection should apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u446	I have just appointed Mrs Kikkie exactly where my frustration is and what I failed to do, but this is just a step too far. We took the pennyable five feet off in September. It is perfectly clear in all government communication that you should be tested for complaints and that you should stay at home if you have complaints. You can see in all the studies that unfortunately too many people do not get tested for complaints and that too many people do get tested, then go out the door anyway. We never said that that rule no longer applies. We continued to communicate that rule, at press conference at press conference and on government expression. So I disagree with Mrs Van Esch on that. I'm blaming you, by the way... You know, it doesn't really make much sense to go to the moon barking or wave your fist to the Netherlands. I'm not doing that at all. I find quite sober that there are just a lot of people who do not get tested with complaints and then do not stay home if they turn out to be those complaints by corona. That's just a fact. Eventually, you'll have to be with me if that doesn't work out. That was Mrs. Kuik's point, and she was right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u447	Blow to the moon!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u448	That's not a debate, it's just a statement from Frits Bolkestein. Mrs. Kuik wants to make it a debate training exercise, but I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u449	I want to make it a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u450	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u451	I'd like to make it fun, but I think we're dealing with an almost collapsing healthcare system in the next few days. The situation is very serious. With the 126th OMT advice the main line was followed, but there was also a bit to do no festivals and no nighthoreca and to wait with it. We did do it and the Amsterdam Dance Event led to 1,000 infections. Anyway, almost two years ago, at the beginning, we had the speech on group immunity. For a long time there was hope in a number of people to reach group immunity, either because people were vaccinated and then would be permanently immune or because people would be immune for a lifetime, as with measles after having had it once. Now it turns out neither one of them is working. People who have been ill can get sick again, and people who have been vaccinated are still getting sick. Is the government still aiming for group immunity through mass vaccination and possibly because some people become ill? Van Dissel mentioned smearing. Or are we finally gonna step away from being able to make it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u452	The government has never followed a strategy of group immunity. It is an effect of policy that as more and more people become infected, they build up a certain degree of protection through that infection and by healing. This also applies, of course, to people who have been vaccinated. You can see that the vaccine does not work forever, that it needs to be boosted and that, of course, there is also a group of people where the vaccine does not work properly. One of the things that I cannot exactly name now is the percentage of vaccinees in which the collective protection is provided. The fact is that in Portugal, where I believe they have 98% vaccinations, the number of infections is beginning to increase. The question is whether there is a time when the collective has such a high level of protection that it also protects that last few percent. I'm not an epidemiologist, you should ask the OMT again, so I'm just gonna stay away from that right now. But it's never been the government's strategy. It is an effect of your policy. You don't like Australia or New Zealand for the strategy that you immediately have each individual infection followed by some sort of complete lockdown as in New Zealand and in some Asian countries. We have chosen the strategy of maximum control because of our open economy. The effect of this is that in the long term a group of people has been infected. In addition, it is mainly the vaccine that eventually builds up that protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u453	I would ask you to include this in the next OMT opinion, because it makes a crucial difference. If a vaccine, possibly with an extra booster, offers almost life-long protection or if you are immune for life after being sick once, then you have a different strategy than when you haven't. Then you'll get to that group immunity in a different way. But it's not. In the long run, we're gonna see immunity drop. My question is: ask that question. If immunity does not occur in the group, there is only one strategy, and that is as few infections as possible. If that other strategy was there.... that was never mine... then you could opt for: well, then everyone should only get sick or have been vaccinated once. But that strategy is not there at the moment, because immunity is decreasing. Would you please submit that so that we have a clear answer from the OMT...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u454	What do we do? This does not lead to the taking away of a question from Mr Omtzigt. I am not going to answer the question, but Mr De Jonge is going to answer it first. He has heard it all and he will come up with a comprehensive, comprehensive answer. I have one more point to make myself. The question is: do you want me to do this now, or can I trust that, as I had become a member of the scheme, a further debate will be requested on the economic aid package and that there will be a separate debate on it? Isn't that much smarter than I'm gonna try right now... I have to admit that in recent days I have only been indirectly involved in the design of that package. When I read it that way, I am very excited about what my colleagues have done. But I'm going to read a little bit of what they wrote in the letter today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u455	I don't think that's convenient. It is, of course, ultimately up to the Chamber to ask if there will be a debate. That hasn't been planned yet. I suggest we suspend for a very short time. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his detailed reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u456	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u457	Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u458	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. We're at the first term of office. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u459	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to try to fit in with where the Prime Minister left off answering the questions. If you hear me double, you're gonna have to cut me off. And if you see me dropping things between shore and ship, I hope you'll urge me to fill them up. But I'm trying to connect to where the Prime Minister just left off. So I will start with the approach for this autumn and the long-term approach, starting with the question of Pieter Omtzigt. Then comes a block about the corona tickets, as part of this autumn's follow-up approach. Then I'll come to the vaccinations. Then comes a number of questions about staff and capacity in care. Finally, there are a number of questions that have not been easily categorized into these cubes. So that's the cube of varia. Then I'll start with Pieter Ommzigt's question. That question was: what about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u460	I am curious to see which block is the treatment of the situation of the major outbreaks in schools at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u461	Actually, he can be anywhere. But I have now heard two questions about the schools. I put it in the block of varia. First of all, the question of Pieter Omtzigt. Is group immunity at all another perspective that should be seen as a real perspective? I think this is one of the important examples of the view of the virus and of the pandemic and how this virus remains among us. In the beginning, of course, we also had a less contagious variant. At that time, it was assumed that a vaccination rate of about 70% would kill the epidemic. Then we got the more contagious variant, initially after the summer. But mostly the British version really shed a different light on the matter. Then we said, "Well, then that vaccination rate must be seriously higher." After the arrival of the delta variant the idea of building group immunity has actually disappeared completely from sight. I think that last Sunday Mr Van Ranst outlined a very realistic perspective at Buitenhof, a perspective shared by many experts and also a somewhat relative perspective. That was in the comparison, the parallel he drew with what was once called the Russian flu. That was probably not a flu, but probably also a variant of a corona virus. In addition, it probably happened that the waves were getting lower and lower. Of course, they didn't have vaccines back then. That means that you can now experience development much faster, and that the suffering we suffer with each other across the world could also be much less. Well, that's a good thing, but that does mean you're dealing with a few more ups and downs. I'm going back to September. The Academy and the WRR have outlined five scenarios. In the letter of 14 September, the cabinet gave the first response. We also wrote in that letter of 14 September that three scenarios were mainly discussed, in line with the scenarios put forward by the Academy and the WRR. The first scenario is a scenario in which the virus will quickly become endemic, so we quickly get out of the epidemic situation and end up in the endemic situation. We have said that this is not very likely and we do not need to develop an approach to this. Because yes, if that were to happen, it would be fantastic, but it is not likely to happen in the short term. A completely different extreme is the scenario where there would be an escape mutation. As a result, the immunity generated by infection or vaccination would no longer be sufficiently protective. Then we should start again from the beginning. At that time, and fortunately still, that scenario was not considered very likely in the short term. Which means you're gonna be in a situation of revival anyway. However, it is not known to what extent these revivals are going to affect us. The following numbers were estimated by RIVM at that time. There would be about 1.8 million people who had not built up immunity, either by infection or by vaccination. On top of that, a number of hundreds of thousands of people would come because a vaccine does not protect 100%. You should add those numbers and that would lead to a number of hospitalizations that we used huge bandwidths to do at the time. By now, we know that the number of people at risk for hospitalization has, fortunately, become much smaller. But RIVM says you could still count on about 15,000 to 20,000 hospital admissions. Between 3,000 and 4,000 of these are ic-recordings. That is a real perspective for building immunity over the coming months. You're gonna have to go through that wave anyway. This first build-up of immunity is inevitable in the first place. Secondly, that build-up of immunity is also simply necessary in order to be protected at all. So you have to build up that immunity. By the way, we prefer to do this as much as possible along the line of vaccination, because it causes the least health damage, but in the end we don't have people on a string either. It is real to assume that it is very likely that everyone will either be vaccinated or suffer from the disease and build immunity by doing so. At least you'll have built up that first immunity. For the long term, the KNAW and the WRR outline a number of scenarios. The first scenario is back to normal. That would be fantastic. Flu-plus. I think that would be very real, but that does indeed mean that you have to take into account a wave every year. It's not that easy to estimate how high it is right now. This also has everything to do with the reduction of immunity and the emergence of new mutations. It also has to do with external threats, where the threat can mainly come from outside, because sufficient immunity has been built up in the Netherlands and in Western Europe, but new mutations can arise because the virus circulates for too long and can circulate because of insufficient build-up of immunity in the rest of the world. The second scenario is a continuous battle where you keep sitting with waves all the time. The worst case scenario is actually an escape mutation, which really escapes from the accumulated immunity. Those are the scenarios the Academy sketches. For this autumn's approach, we have used an abstraction of these three scenarios, with the most extreme to one side and the most extreme to the other being the least likely, because we still have the group that has to build up that primary immunity at all. That is what we have focused our approach on for the autumn. I'll get to that in a minute. Towards December, we need to create a policy agenda for pandemic preparedness, with the lessons learned over the last year and a half. What better way to prepare for a next pandemic than the last pandemic? A second point I have promised the First Chamber and of course that letter also goes to the Second Chamber. That is that we are looking forward to the legal instruments that you will probably need in the coming period, as far as we can see at the moment. The third point I made last time was that I promised Mrs Bikker, and I repeat it here. That is that in the first quarter we will come up with this long-term strategy as a follow-up to what we are doing now, a follow-up to the approach for this winter. We can't do that before, because we really need to be further in learning about the degree of immunity that we're building up somewhat structurally and the extent to which we're dealing with a new wave every year. This is about that flu-plus scenario that many experts are currently considering to be real. If we're a little bit further in time, there's a better assessment of what that requires of us. In short, it is necessary to talk about that long term. We are also going to talk about that long term. At the moment, I do not think it is accurate to indicate exactly what it will look like, but we will have to prepare for different scenarios. I would like to underline what many groups have said about this, namely that we must learn to live with this corona virus in some way. We should not have the idea that we will actually be done with it in the short term. We're gonna have to live with that corona virus in some way. I think we can assume that it will not affect us in such a way as it has done over the past 20 months. But at the moment we really don't have enough ground to think that it'll be over in a few months and that it wouldn't come back a winter later. In short, we really need to prepare for that long term. Then the approach for this autumn. A number of questions have been asked about this, but perhaps there is an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u462	I hear the cabinet now saying, first the Prime Minister and then the Minister of Health, that group immunity was never the goal. It was an effect that could occur, that would be pleasant of course, but that was never the goal. Do I understand correctly that group immunity in the initial phase had never been the target? That's my first question. Then there's my second question. I am surprised, however, because the Prime Minister says at the beginning: yes, we see that the effectiveness of the vaccines is decreasing and we see more re-infections; they are so frequent that immunity does not occur long enough. But now I hear the Minister of VWS say the following again. We've got about 15,000 to 20,000 hospital admissions and 3,000 to 4,000 ic recordings to go through, and then we've got that first form of group immunity, in my words. There's not only a semantic difference between them. There's the essence of the difference. If those vaccines were to provide permanent protection, what we would all really want, if once an infection were to provide a permanent form of protection, those sums would be right. Then I would understand the policy and you might like it, but they don't! So are we going to send them or are we going to send them to the lowest possible level of contamination because, unfortunately, that protection does not occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u463	That is a very fair question. First of all, the word "group immunity." I think there's a lot of misperception around that. First of all, this has been an objective of the cabinet. Eventually, of course, you want to get rid of an epidemic, so building immunity is a goal. But creating group immunity as soon as possible and getting rid of an epidemic along that path is a strategy that cannot be achieved when it comes to a virus that can cause so much health damage. A care system can't handle that. You can't afford that. You want to achieve immunity as soon as possible, of course, but especially with a virus that can cause such health damage, you will have to do so along the way of vaccination. Meanwhile, you have a strategy of maximum checking, as the mp has just explained. Secondly, there is a difference between the word "group immunity" and the building of the highest possible immunity. We know the immunity will decrease over time. That immunity therefore needs maintenance. Group immunity assumes that if you have vaccinated a large part of the total, if a large part of immunity has been built up, the virus will not actually have a chance to become a problem again. There are many diseases for which we have now built up such an immunity that the virus does not actually get a chance anymore. Take the flu, for example. That's what we deal with every year. Even though everyone gets the flu, it's never really that at some point you reach a stage where you've built up enough group immunity against the flu. That's how you see it here. I hope, however, that it does not go in the same way as the flu, because the flu virus often mutates. In fact, we have to adjust the flu vaccine every year to the most likely mutations we expect. In this case, you hope not, because that could lead to a lot of health damage. However, it is likely that there will always be a reduction in immunity, after natural infection or after vaccination. At some point there is a reduction and therefore the immunity must be given a boost again. This can be done by making the infection by....... that gives a boost to the immune system..... but for the group of vulnerable is the way of a booster much more likely. This year we're gonna booster everyone anyway. It is quite conceivable that this will become an annual activity. It is also conceivable that it will be an annual activity for the same group that we also give the flu shot. We can't predict that in the long term. In the short term, after the primary booster group has been, we want to booster everyone. In short, the strategy cannot be aimed at building group immunity, because that perspective is probably out of reach. After the delta variant that is not a very real perspective anymore. But we do want immunity to be as high as possible, which you will have to maintain over and over again to keep those annual waves, which may happen more often every year, as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u464	I would like the first answer to be even more precise. Do I understand correctly that building immunity through illness was never a goal of the cabinet and OMT even in March 2020? Secondly, I welcome the explanatory statement that I finally received, namely that group immunity is not in itself accessible. I'm not happy about that, because I'd like to have it. This has considerable consequences. That is why I ask the Minister to include this in the next OMT opinion. When you think it's reachable, you're talking about spreading some of the disease charges you need to take. But if you don't think it's accessible, there's only one option: to keep it as low as possible. That is why this statement by the Minister has far-reaching consequences. I ask him to include these consequences in the OMT opinion. That is also in line with what Mr Van Ranst said in Buitenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u465	A few things. First of all, building immunity along the way of natural infection has, of course, never been a very real perspective, because it would cause too much health damage. It was therefore not a policy objective either. But the fact that you build up immunity because some people get sick before they can take the vaccine is an effect of the natural course of an epidemic. But it is not a policy objective. That is just as re-affirming Mr Omtzigt's question. Then the group immunity. Group immunity in the sense of "if the group is sufficiently protected, the rest is protected" is not a very real perspective according to the experts. However, building up the highest possible immunity and maintaining and boosting it as soon as you see that it is reducing to prevent, as far as possible, actual health damage, namely serious infection and hospitalization, is a real prospect. In fact, that's what we do. Is it possible to keep the number of infections as low as possible? Not necessarily, either. That depends on the degree of immunity and the extent to which you see breakthrough infections. If you look at where you're seeing breakthrough infections right now, you can see that we have vaccines that don't protect 100% from hospitalization, but more than 90%. In the elderly, you only see the first signs of a decrease in immunity. That is also why we will be the first to booster older people in particular. Along this path we achieve that we keep immunity as high as possible, by building up the primary vaccination rate anyway, and then by maintaining vaccination protection through booster vaccination. Why are we talking all the time about the group of patients we may still have to expect? That's just an estimate, not a certainty. That is the projection of the number of people who have not been vaccinated and who have not been infected, i.e. who have built up immunity by that means, plus the number of people we know are not working enough against serious infection. That combined gives a projection of the number of hospitalisations, with an estimate of 15,000 to 20,000. This means that we are in the situation of saying: we see too many people getting sick too quickly. That has everything to do with the high infection pressure. So it's got to go down first. In fact, we must ensure that those who are suffering from such a serious infection that they actually need hospitalisation do not report to the hospital gate in a short time, because the hospitals cannot handle it. If that beats a certain amount of time, it's much better to doable. Would you like to avoid it altogether? Yes, of course. That is why you will hear me every day about the importance of vaccination. This would prevent many of these hospitalisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u466	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u467	I didn't want to use another interruption, but I just wanted to know if this could be a question for the next OMT opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u468	That's a good point. Just give me a chance to do that in a good way. I do not know whether this will necessarily have to be for the next OMT opinion. But what we have to do on our way to December is to first send you the policy agenda on pandemic preparedness, which I have promised. In addition, there will be a preview of the legal instruments: how often will we extend the Twm? In the first quarter of 2022, we will present our effective long-term strategy in response to the Academy and the WRR. I have to see which advisory bodies we will ask to respond to. At least this will be the OMT. It seems very real to me that the OMT responds to this, but I'm not even thinking about the OMT either. You would also like to ask the planning agencies to reflect on the long-term strategy that the cabinet wants to design on the basis of the different scenarios offered by the Academy and the WRR.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u469	That's clear. Anywhere, advice may be requested, but I assume that at least one of the next two or three OMT opinions will be specifically asked about the consequences for the policy that this immunity will not be achieved due to the reduction and temporary immunity. The question of what that means for policy must be taken somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u470	You mean there's no permanent build-up of immunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u471	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u472	... but that it will decrease over time and will therefore have to be maintained. You ask what the impact of this on the policy we have on the coming period is. Yeah, we'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u473	I asked a question to the outgoing Prime Minister about the long-term strategy. His answer was that this minister would come back to that. I think I still miss his answer in his speech. I hope this does not go away from my interruptions, but this is a reminder to this Minister to reflect on my point that the longer you wait to define the long-term strategy, the less you can make good policy choices now. You need that long-term strategy to know which considerations you may or may not make. I'm still curious about that. That's why I say do it as quickly as possible. I just mentioned the prevention policy, but also 2G or not. Those are choices you need to see in the light of the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u474	I think we have dealt with this in a number of ways. First of all, I'm going back to that letter from September. In fact, in response to what the Academy and the WRR had outlined for five scenarios at the time, we said the following. Let us now develop an approach to what is most likely to be this winter period. In any case, we are still at a stage in which not everyone has built up immunity, a primary immunity. Let's develop that approach anyway. An endemic situation is really not to be expected in the very short term. An actual escape mutation that really withdraws from all the immunity that has been built up is, according to the experts, not really a very likely scenario either. Lives are real and likely, but to what extent it is difficult to predict. That has everything to do with the speed with which the people who have not yet built up immunity become ill. In short, that is what we have been working on. Two. I understand that Mrs van Esch says, and I think Mrs Westerveld said that too, that you don't want a choice to be made now that you're stuck with for a very long time. Take, for example, the CTBs; we are going to talk about this and also over the next few weeks. This is also the reason why the use of these CTBs is linked to a temporary law, initially proposed by the Cabinet to adopt it for a six-month period. Now it has said: think not; we do that once every three months. I think that underlines Mrs Van Esch's point. And I understand that, too, because the perspective on how to combat this pandemic is changing, of course. It is also really just incredibly difficult to actually look months ahead. In short, the short-term treatment of the Twm as a temporary legal instrument actually provides for the fears that Mrs Van Esch has. On top of that, in December we will have a preview of the legal instruments that we expect to need for the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u475	I hear the Minister say a few things about built-up immunity. I think he already has a dark brown suspicion I'm about to bring up, namely the serological tests, which I love so much about. During the previous debate, he indicated that he would look at the countries I had referred to and the examples of those countries on the application of these tests. I asked him if he'd gotten to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u476	Not me. I know people are working on it. Moreover, these people have been working on many other things in recent weeks; you will understand that. The last time we spoke was a tight two weeks ago, not even two weeks ago. At least that has not led to any other result than I reported to you two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u477	Can the Minister say at what time, or in what form, the Chamber can expect a further response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u478	I'm not ready for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u479	Second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u480	But I know there's a huge crew listening to it. They will ensure that I can give a more concrete answer to this in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Then more specifically about the current situation. The mp has already said a number of things about it, but I would like to come back to it. Within the three main scenarios we outlined ourselves in September, partly on the basis of the KNAW and WRR scenarios, we have thought: a scenario of revival is actually most likely. How are we going to deal with a traffic light within these revivals, if you like, or with limit values that make it predictable that you will have to act from that moment on? We have said that the situation for this autumn's recovery must be divided into three levels of risk. The lowest limit for the lowest level of risk is 10 ic intakes and 40 hospitalisations per day. For the level of risk "serious," i.e. the highest level of risk, this is 25 ic admissions and 100 hospitalisations. If you ask what the clear trigger is anyway to take action, then it is those levels. Did we do that last fall? Yes. At all times when we had these limit values in mind, we prepared measures so that we could take those measures as soon as we exceeded those limit values. These measures always aim to reverse the trend. With regard to the current situation, we have done so in two steps. I think Mr Hijink referred to that. He asked: couldn't you have known it wasn't enough a few weeks ago? At that time we also followed the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. But you can actually see that as the rate of infection increased sharply, the number of people who got sick in a short time and the number of hospitalizations that came out of it were at the top of the RIVM bandwidth. That is indeed why we need to take additional measures now. What are these measures supposed to lead to? That you are at least below that limit again, that is to say, under 100 hospitalizations a day and under 25 ic-records a day, because that is when the healthcare occupation is falling again. Is that structuralally keeping it at 300? No, I can't say that, but that's the turn you have to take to get the hospital occupation down again. By this we say that we want to come under 25 daily ic-recordings and under 100 daily hospitalizations. So where does that end up? At some point, the large group that had not yet built up immunity has built up immunity. The expectation is that that is also the time when you have to expect at least greatly reduced hospital admissions from that group, provided you maintain immunity, including by booster vaccines. But infections will also maintain immunity. They also work as a natural boost of the immune system. In short, when it will be, there is no telling at the moment. I hope we are not going too fast, because if we go too fast, we simply cannot handle it properly in hospitals and will therefore need more measures to further reduce that infection pressure. Right now, we are taking the measures advised by the OMT. But one thing: no matter how much we disagree about the strategy or how much people think that more robust measures need to be taken, of course everyone is absolutely in agreement that we must prevent your healthcare system from actually overloading and that access to care is actually being compromised. That's the moment you want to get ahead of. Hence this limit value to steer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u481	I would like to ask this Minister if he thinks that our care capacity is currently overstretched.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u482	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u483	The outgoing minister is talking about preventing it. It seems to me that it is rather too late to talk about preventing it now. The care infarct was already there before Corona reached our country and since then, during this strategy and this policy has come to an infarct in such a way that... Well, we know all the stories of all healthcare workers. The outgoing minister will know the numbers better than I do. Then my question is why he chooses wording: we must avoid it. We're way past that, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u484	First of all, of course, healthcare has been in crisis since March 2020, and not just hospital care. Wherever you go to work, anyone can put in their own words what that pressure feels like. So the care is definitely heavily burdened. I am always a little cautious about using terms such as 'infarct', because I do not think they do justice to the situation we are in. We have a very heavy burden on our care. In fact, it's so heavy that we have to cancel surgeries, and sometimes not for the first time. We all know someone who did. That is why, however difficult, I would like to explain to everyone who is very critical that it is necessary to take action. But with that, you want to avoid an actual overload. There is no doubt that there is a very large tax at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u485	Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u486	I'm gonna save my interruptions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u487	I would ask the Minister to answer the specific questions as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u488	Yes. I think, Mr President, that I have actually answered a lot of questions about this. I answered the more general strategic questions following what the mp had already answered. I would therefore like to leave it at that with regard to the strategy and move on to the block of corona tickets. So the corona tickets. Of course, we are going to talk about this more often in the coming weeks. Tomorrow we are talking about the law that is affecting the broadening of the application of the corona ticket to the retail trade. Next week I hope to be able to talk to you about the 2G bill and the bill on corona tickets at work and in higher education. And that is how I think we will have many more debates. I think it is good to touch on some more fundamental points now, although we are not going to finish the discussion today. You don't have to. I agree with everyone who says that this is a very fundamental question. "Do you want this?" is a very fundamental question, and so we also need to have a thorough discussion. That is why I say that it does not need to lead to a discussion today. That's one. Two. I agree with anyone who says it's obviously not a panacea. The corona pass is not a panacea. Nor is it necessarily an instrument to reduce the number of infections or something. It's not that. Then what is it? Well, it's an instrument for getting back together safely in larger groups, while the virus isn't gone yet and a lot of people haven't built up protection yet. That's it. So it helps to open society a little bit earlier. It also helps to decide a little later on if you have to decide. And so it helps to be more safe, but not completely safe, certainly not to be able to meet in large groups. If there is no other way to do that, then the first question is. That question is quite right and it affects the proportionality of this commitment. The answer is yes, of course. Mrs Bikker was right to ask that question. So that's what we're doing. Where we are committed to corona tickets and we really want to broaden that commitment, there will still be many places where corona tickets are not used for our purposes and to which the scope of application does not extend. In fact, we are actually limited by the law to extend the scope of application. So there will be many places where the 1.5 meter applies, but no corona tickets. In addition, there will be many places where the corona tickets 3G are handled in combination with placement or in combination with a flow-through situation. And in addition, if your cabinet adopts that law, there may be a single part of society where it is not sufficiently safe to get back together in large groups without the use of 2G and where 3G plus placement is not really a real solution. You can't be a discotheque and be a place where people sit in a chair. It can't be. That's a combination that's not possible. In short, the cabinet proposes to adopt a differentiated approach in the different modalities of the implementation of the corona access tickets and to apply them in the situation where this is the most proportionate intervention to allow society to proceed as far as possible. That's what we're thinking. Then why are we even talking about 2G? Why don't we just leave it with 3G or the variant of 1G, which Mrs Bikker and Mrs Westerveld call? I will be happy to deal with that in a moment. Why are we even considering 2G? Why is 3G not safe enough? If you come together in large groups, knowing that about 1.5 million people have not built up sufficient protection and that the people who have not built up protection are actually at the greatest risk of getting sick and making another sick again, then you will have to do something extra. Why are they the most at risk? Vaccinates are often said: they can surely also infect another person and become ill themselves. Then why are unvaccinated people most at risk? That has everything to do with the effect of vaccines. Vaccines protect 50% to 63% against transmission and they protect 75% against infection. If you go in as a non-vaccine tested in a 3G setting, while the infection pressure is out of control and there is a high risk setting, you may, if you have been tested negative, have a good chance of walking in without the virus, but you also have a pretty big chance of walking out with that virus, if you've been there one night while the infection pressure is out. You'll go home and the chances of your home infecting others will be greater. The risk and to get sick yourself and to infect others is simply greater if you are not protected. That means we're gonna have to consider it. Can we further limit the risk by ensuring that these large groups are only made up of people who have already built up some protection, either through the vaccine or through the infection? Or should we take measures to restrict group settings at all and therefore no longer be able to do so at all? That's what we're up against. If that is the only choice, Mrs Van den Berg asks. No, that's not the only choice. Mr Hijink also rightly said that this is not the only choice. We shouldn't say it that digitally. It is only conceivable that you will be faced with that choice this autumn. Do you have to impose restrictions on everyone or can you let things go on for the group for whom that would be responsible and less risky? That is why we have come up with the proposal to get to 2G. By the way, we are not in splendid isolation in this respect. This is actually happening in virtually all European countries at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u489	We're gonna get that law. The CDA asked if the Minister would at least outline alternatives and scenarios. He says that this is happening in many European countries, but it is not happening in different countries either. Can he take that into account in the explanatory statement? Where does it happen? In what situations does it happen? What would be an alternative to achieving the same goal? Mr Van Dissel quite rightly pointed out yesterday that, in the case of a measure, you should consider whether it would be effective at all. And you have to see if a measure is going to be complied with. If it isn't, there's no point in thinking of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u490	Of course, the latter has to be done anyway. Yeah, sure. Of course, we're also looking at alternatives. I've just outlined that I can see that we're actually going to have different settings. Sometimes settings in which the 1.5 meter is just the basic rule and where it is sufficient. Sometimes 3G will be used in combination with placement. In a limited part of society, 2G will be used. Are there any alternatives? Yeah, these three anyway. Closure, so actually lockdown-like measures, is of course the alternative at the time when the level of infection is too high to be safe in groups. Then closure is an alternative anyway. It's an alternative that I don't think anyone wants, but it's an alternative anyway. In addition, there is the alternative of 1G. Mrs Bikker and Mrs Westerveld ask for a proper investigation. Here's what I want to do. We have asked the Outbreak Management Team, which has now submitted the policy option 2G in three opinions to us, to properly identify the epidemiological expectations you may have of coming together in groups and the use of one of the implementing methods of corona access cards. This is done against the background of the already established vaccination rate and against the background of the infection pressure outside and the degree of risk in the setting inside. This makes the implementation mode in a given situation sufficient or not to allow that meeting to take place safely. I do not mean, therefore, as an instrument for reducing the number of infections, but to prevent a group-by-group meeting from acting as a catalyst for accelerating the spread of infections. Of course, that's what you don't want. Mrs Bikker says: add the possibility of 1G to the calculation. I want to do that in a number of ways. I also have a number of comments to make. I'll mention it in a minute. I'll tell you how we're gonna get that passed on. You have 3G: cure, tested or vaccinated. You have 2G: cured or vaccinated. Both executions can be done in combination with everyone testing. So I mean the 1G variant in combination with 3G and the 1G variant in combination with 2G. Then you get a ranking of what's safest in a particular setting and what's safest afterwards, then and then. You have four possible implementation modalities that need to be set out. In doing so, I think we will have to choose the most proportional, given the outside infection pressure and given the risk setting inside. That's how I see it. OMT's coming with that on Friday. So we can also involve this in the final design of the bill, which we would like to submit to you by Monday morning at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u491	Thank you to the Minister for the answer. In addition, I would like to outline the search on my part. He sees two things. I understand very well that the Minister is looking at risks in terms of contagion. I understand that this is very important in policy and in the longer term choices we make. However, I also see two things that I have so far missed in the consideration given by the Minister. Let me hope they are added. The first is the behavioral effect. If we opt for, for example, the most stringent measure, which I find difficult, but okay test 2G and everyone, this means that one group is excluded. What does that mean for the group of people who can't get in? They're all gonna sit at home and have coffee alone, yeah? Did we actually bring down the infections, the contagion rate and everything that follows? That's what I call it on the one hand. Then my other aspect in all this. Suppose we also look in the longer term: how do we sustain this as a society? I understand very well that the Minister did not stant pede a test capacity à la Denmark stomped out of the ground. But shouldn't we also consider how we allow everyone to participate in it as much as possible? I would very much like to hear those two considerations from the Minister. How does he involve that in the upcoming bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u492	First of all, the behavior. Of course it is: people who can't go in somewhere, don't all sit at home alone Netflixing. Of course it is. But this also applies, of course, to closure measures. If you close the restaurant at a certain time, it's not like everyone sits at home Netflixing. It is also not the case that people go elsewhere in the exact same setting. That's not true. We know that, because these type of closure measures always have a real reducing effect on the number of contacts. Take the setting of a few thousand men in a large hall. That's a setting you don't create at home that easily. It depends a little on how you live, but most people don't live so that they can create that at home. The degree of risk is actually reduced when you do not create that kind of settings. That's one. But behavior matters, absolutely. Two is testing. I like to give ourselves homework to find out how those 1G variants combined with 2G and 3G could help us. But I would like to make a few comments. I think that they still allow you to use this as a mode of implementation, but they also bring a number of hesitations to the mat that you cannot simply ignore, for example in the legal sense. A measure must always be proportionate. That proportionality weighting must be carefully considered, also given the circumstance of that moment. Is it proportionate from the point of view of the 88.3% who have been vaccinated that they should also be tested if this is not necessarily necessary epidemiologically? That's a proportionality weighting. Is the expected reduction in turnover for a owner of a catering facility proportionate, or is it disproportionately affecting his ownership right? Those are proportionality scales. I can give you a few more examples, but let me put them aside for a moment, because every time we apply measures it is a matter of weighing again. The practical side. You'll, if you look at those high-risk settings... because 2G is not an option for work. 2G is not an option for retailing. You shouldn't want that. It really has to be about a high-risk setting. Let's take the discotheque as an example. If you add up how many people enter that type of catering establishments on an average day on a weekend, you might be at 750,000, 850,000 tests. Is it doable to take it away? At the moment, Access Testing decreases over 500,000 tests per week and so does the GGD. The GGD and the Stichting Open Nederland are now testing 1 million times a week. You should be able to do all that in one night. It just doesn't seem reasonable to me that that would be possible at all, regardless of the cost, because you'll be at least 50 million a week. So I think we should also look closely at the implementation aspects. The first thing I want to do with the OMT is to visualize the epidemiological aspect. What could be the effect of 1G compared to 2G? How does it help us to make settings safe? That's the first thing. Whether it is politically desirable, that is what we are talking about, but they have to identify whether it is epidemiologically helpful. The second is that I would also like to take a good look at the practical aspects. I have just mentioned a number of examples of this and then the legal, i.e. the weighting of proportionality. I think that we should make that weighting very good when dealing with the bill and every time you take action. So every time you make a ministerial arrangement, you make that proportionality weighing up with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u493	I would very much have liked to have weighed what it means when you no longer have a group of people in the picture. The 500,000 that are now reporting for access testing will become less visible with a 2G option, I'm guessing. So I am also curious to see how we can keep an eye on a group that is still in the picture and in which we also find people who sometimes even let themselves be persuaded to be vaccinated, for example because they are Testing for Access sites close to a vaccination site. I see a real challenge there in terms of thinking through the implementation; let me put it positively at this time of night. A second aspect that I consider really important in the practical aspects mentioned by the Minister is that he looks at how this is organized internationally in other places and that we are not just looking at what is happening here and now and what can be done next week. I see very well how hard work is being done, also by the GGD, especially at this time when the infections are so high. I am not just asking for a solution now, but I am asking to look ahead, also because I see in other countries that a high willingness to test contributes to a lower level of contamination. That's the second one. The third thing in all this is that I would like to ask the Minister, just when he looks at that 1G aspect, to look at where the profits can be made here, also to take into account in society that there is an urgent need to prevent as many infections as possible, because I, as a vaccinee, find the super rot when I put another infected and in a risky situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u494	Sure. I very much share what Mrs Bikker says, in the sense that this willingness to test is very important. The fact that we're taking a million tests a week now has something very annoying, because apparently it's necessary. At least half a million of them are obviously needed because people have complaints, and that is very annoying. But it's also a good thing, because that's how you keep the virus in mind. That million tests a week we put into society is a good sieve. If you lost that, it could be that the sight of the virus is reduced. But, let me add, at this moment we know that, even when testing for access, the positivity rate on the access side of the GGD is about 20%, which of course is absurdly high now is 1. The expectation is that the people who already have complaints will not be tested for access, so it also has a preventive effect: I am not even going to test anymore. Of course, you hope they stay home, but we don't know that for sure. So it has not been said that you have epidemiology completely in view by testing for access at the moment. That's one. Two is that I am actually also concerned about another aspect of the problem if you give me homework, then I will also give you a little homework if you are okay with it and that is whether the 88% would not check out completely if they were told that they would still have to be tested in front of them. Are they actually gonna do that, or are they gonna say, "Well, I'm not gonna go?" And what is the effect of this, on behaviour and also on the basis of the measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u495	Mr. Chairman. If I'm being challenged to homework, you have to give me a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u496	You can think about it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u497	I've been thinking a little bit about this, because I'm not just presenting this. I would therefore be a little disappointed if it were to be removed as if I were putting pressure on that 88.3% so to speak, even though I myself belong to it and most of the people who e-mail me belong to it. They say exactly: with a falling vaccine effectiveness, even in the coming winter months, where not everyone can get the booster at the same time, I would very much like to make that extra contribution. That is why I also encourage the Minister to insist on the urgency of going fully in order to protect each other. So there is another aspect to this than just: how do we ensure epidemiologically what is most effective for this moment. I'm here looking for the society story that we're going to be passing along. That's where my search is. If the Minister gives me homework, I'd be happy to pick it up. I'm also gonna talk to people who suck at this, but I'm gonna find out how we're gonna get through this together. There's actually my deepest motivation in the questions I'm asking the Minister here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u498	Thank you. To be honest, you have already responded to that, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u499	That's how I see it, Mrs. Bikker. I'll take your homework in my direction as best I can, and I'll report back with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u500	Yes. Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go over some discrepancies with the outgoing minister. I hear him say that 2G is a safer option. I'm going down the road for a short time than, for example, Mrs Bikker's 1G. I keep sticking to the fact that vaccinated people can get infected and be contagious. So when it comes to reducing the number of infections, it seems more risky to me to have a room with vaccinated people who may become infected and infect others than Mrs Bikker's example, where anyone who has been tested is at least not contagious at the time and so the chances of others getting infected are also less. So I can't share that enthusiasm for that corona admission ticket, because I just really stick to the fact that people who have been vaccinated have gotten such a QR code. That QR code is static. For the same reason, I'm currently contagious as a vaccinee, but I have a QR code and I'm welcome everywhere. So what problem do we actually solve with this 2G approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u502	First of all, 2G versus 1G. For this reason, I think it is right that we should let the OMT put this very well next to each other. That is also why I asked for both the 3G option and the 2G option to have a 1G variant, namely that you still test everyone, and then do a ranking the stars in what is epidemiological, regardless of the political desirability, the social desirability or whatever, the safest option. In what situation are you least working to make a group meeting a spreading event? I think we need to know that first. The model support of TU Delft now shows that 2G is the safest option, then 1G and then 3G. I can see that, too. In a situation where you test everyone, you could say that you have an equal degree to bring the virus in, but there is of course no equal degree to which you then spread the virus among yourselves and take it back home. The people who enter without protection, because they have not been repaired or vaccinated, are more likely to walk out with the virus and infect their, often unvaccinated, environment at home. In short, the epidemiological risks of someone who comes in tested without further protection are always greater, even in a 1G setting. They are always bigger than in a 2G variant, my peasant understanding would say. But anyway, that's what the OMT says about the epidemiological side. We are dealing ourselves with the desirability, whether you consider anything socially justifiable and about the weighting of proportionality. That's up to us. That is a political question, but the epidemiological assessment is up to the OMT. That's what we use in support. Why do you want it? To keep getting together safer in larger groups. We can do that again for a few months now. That's delicious. You hope to be able to hold on to that in the winter. So you can't do that in settings after 8:00 p.m. I think that this leads to a great deal of grief for a lot of entrepreneurs and that this leads to a feeling of loss for a lot of people. I would very much like to see what we can do about it in a somewhat safe way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u503	Thank you. You made that very clear. Finally, Mrs Simons. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u504	In a democracy, a majority feels responsible for the minority. A democracy is not about excluding people for the reason that they are in the minority. So I am very surprised by the continuous scattering with that figure of 88.3%. It's like those people I'm one of have more rights than others. Then I'll listen to an explanation that doesn't make it clear to me. If everyone entering a room has been tested negative, I don't think the risk of infection is greater than everyone entering a room and we know from half of the people that they were tested just before and that the other half don't know what their status is, because they have a QR code. It doesn't mean anything when it comes to preventing infections. So I can't do anything with this answer, because it doesn't make any sense. That's one. Two. The way of thinking excludes people based on the fact that they have not been vaccinated. This seems to me to be very undesirable in a democracy, especially since there are alternatives where that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u505	I asked if you could be a little shorter. If you give me the opportunity, Minister, I would like to say to my fellow Members: a short question can sometimes also lead to a short answer. I see the interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u506	In this case, it doesn't matter what you ask, because you never get...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u507	I notice the interruptions are quite long. The Minister now has the floor to respond to Mrs Simons' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u508	It was actually two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u509	Mrs. Simons, excuse me. I've been talking for a while. You spoke through my words in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u510	You spoke through me! That's why your microphone went on and mine went off! That was the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u511	The Minister. Do you still want to respond to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u512	Sure. There were actually two questions asked. I think it was two good questions that a lot of people live with. First of all, the epidemiological side. How can it be that if you're all going in negative-tested, the group of people who haven't been vaccinated and who haven't built immunity from infection, is still more likely to walk out with that virus? Because they didn't build immunity. The extent to which they bring the virus in is, of course, never zero, because you know that a negative antigen test is somewhere between 80% and 90% in reliability. This is also somewhat dependent on the quality of its decline. So the odds aren't zero. The chances of the virus still coming in are present. The chances of walking out with that virus are greater for those who have not built up protection than for those who have built up protection. So that's the epidemiological side. Then there is the more political question, the question of proportionality. We will have to respond to them properly in the legislation. I do not mean, of course, to say that the majority can dictate to the minority how society is organised. I don't mean to put it that way. But the other way around, of course, is just as true. You also need to see what's proportional and fair. Then the question is: Imagine if 1G is either practically unorganized or not safe enough. Does that mean that if the infection pressure remains quite high, then for that reason you shouldn't want to allow nighthoreca at all for everyone? Or would you allow it for those people for whom it can be safe? That's a proportionality weighting. Do you want to make it, for the reason that it's not safe enough for a small part of the people, impossible for everyone? That is a question of proportionality. That really is a political weighting. We're gonna have to make it with each other here. I assume that will be next week, when we deal with the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u513	Mrs Westerveld, who also has a birthday tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u514	What a beautiful way to celebrate your birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u515	Yeah, we got another hour, so I figured I'd just say it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u516	It's a bit of a shame that the other singing minister has already left, otherwise I saw a duet coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u517	Absolutely. We certainly would have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u518	I feel a déjà vu coming, because we are talking again about the model of TU Delft, which I was standing with two weeks ago. I hear the Minister saying that 2G is the most effective. When I read the summary of that model, I see that it says that "there is a clear difference in which variant can be identified as effective depending on the control parameter: the number of infections. Variant 1, testing everyone, is then the most effective." Well, I understand that the Minister says: if you apply 3G in the current situation, people who have been vaccinated can light people who have not been vaccinated, and that is risky for those people. So far, so good. That was also one of our criticisms of the corona pass. But then the minister himself mentions the example of nighthoreca. Nachthoreca is not necessarily the place where people who are 60-plus and have weak health come together massively, which puts them at great risk of getting to the ic. That strengthens me in the idea that it's much safer to go to everyone's test, because you'll get at least four out of five infections out of the door in advance. Those people will stay home. And you keep an eye on the virus, because testing contributes to the classic adage of testing, tracing, staying home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u519	Of course, the latter becomes much less the case if people do not go at all for that reason. That's a behavioral effect we have to face. That could happen. With regard to the first, I think: this is precisely why I asked the OMT to put it very well together. I believe that there are two important parameters that can determine the difference. The first is the infection pressure outside and the second is the degree of risk setting inside. That is why I believe that we will have to use different ways of implementing the corona access card side by side and choose the most proportionate one each time. It may also be a possibility that because of the infection pressure it is not at all possible. Then a lockdown-like measure is the only alternative option. That is also why I said: you must also provide for a 1G execution modality, at least in its modelling, both the 3G option and the 2G option. I'm not saying that because I like all that practical, but because I just want to know what it does in case of high infection pressure outside and a high infection risk setting inside. This makes what implementation mode is applicable. Then I expect a kind of Ranking the Stars, but of course always situationally determined. You can't say that 2G is always better than 3G or that 2G is always better than everyone else. It also depends on the situation you're in. That is why I think it is a legitimate quest of yours, and indeed for a long time I have to acknowledge that too, and also of Mrs Bikker, to see if we can put this modality next to it and whether you can see what you can or can't apply in any situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u520	I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP. I'm getting some signals from colleagues who say I need to be a little less flexible, so I'm going to be a little stricter with the number of interruptions. That's a fair call. Sometimes a question is not fully answered. That is sometimes open to interpretation. Then there's a bit of a discussion. That's what I meant by that. Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u521	I'm used to being dealt with strictly, Mr. Chairman, so I'm a willing victim. I have two questions, of a very different order. The first is as follows. Yesterday we had an excellent briefing, certainly from Mr Van Dissel, and we also talked about the effect of 3G, especially in the light of what will come next around 2G. Mr Van Dissel has promised that he will show in compliance rates what the effect of this 2G might be. But my question concerns first of all 3G. We see the percentages on page 27 of what Mr Van Dissel gave us. I understand that the Minister does not have all of this ready, but there is quite some concern about compliance with the application of those corona tickets. I see percentages of 76 in restaurants, 69 in cafés, 61 in other restaurants, etc. Does the Minister have any idea of the effect of that 3G measure? Does he also weigh that in the later application of 2G or not? If the effect is ultimately quite limited, it is the question what such a heavy measure does, because you are hitting a lot of people. It's a little tricky, but I see the Minister understands me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u522	Sure, it's a very fair question. It's no good to have a good measure that's being poorly respected. At the same time, we also know that you cannot expect 100% compliance. So you always have to assume a certain non-compliance, a very ugly word, because otherwise you overestimate your expectations. That will have to be involved in the consideration of which instrument you are or will not use. That's one. The OMT will also reflect further on this. That's two. Three is the commitment I made to Mrs Westerveld in the previous debate. She asked if we have sufficient effectiveness studies at this time. My answer was: no, we actually do not have enough. You have more of the model side we've already done. We discussed this last time, in relation to TU Delft. You have the modeling that the OMT could provide, at least the RIVM, and which is then tested by the OMT. In addition, you would actually want to do effectiveness research. We're gonna do it three ways. I replied to that in the letter, in response to the undertaking given to Mrs Westerveld. I think it was a motion, too. We do desk research of everything that happens abroad, so: what do we have available there? We will visualize all known data. And three is the behavioral study, so what's the effect on behavior? In addition, this compliance point is very strong, in addition to an actual research setting in practice. The latter also knows its limitations in implementation. Can you create the same friends of Amstel-livesetting in a full Ahoy with 2G and 3G, then see what the effect is on the number of infections? Is that ethical? Of course, there's a limit to that. So we have to look very closely at how to do that research, but we also want to actually do practical research in these different implementation methods, in order to be able to demonstrate a difference in effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u523	I assume the results will come our way as soon as possible, towards the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u524	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u525	My second question is a very different one. You have of course noticed, also in my contribution, that I am not too big a fan of 2G. Then I express myself with caution, but very specifically I have also called for attention to be paid to people who cannot be vaccinated because they have a condition or a disability. Perhaps the Minister will come to that shortly, but my question is whether or not he would like to deal with this very specifically in the further reply, because these people have no alternative. If we move to 2G, I would very much like to have a separate rating and a separate opportunity for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u526	Sure. Then there is a question put by Mrs Den Haan, Mr Stoffer, CDA, D66 and VVD, and probably also by a number of others. Then I shall go back to Mrs Bikker's amendment. In the spring, we discussed the law on corona admissions. I remember that Mrs Bikker then tabled an amendment which I said was totally impossible. Then Mrs Bikker said: I know, but we do. So it turned out to be totally unfeasible, but still we do it. This is a pilot that has simply proved necessary in order to be able to manage the implementation properly. In doing so, we have listened to all the signals from people who either cannot be vaccinated or cannot be tested or either cannot be tested. Anyone who has checked in with us, we have invited them to participate in that pilot. This has been done via umbrella organisations or directly via e-mails. People have also reported through a number of MPs. We've invited everyone we knew might belong to this group to that pilot. It has shown that it is very difficult to have a general point of contact to assess, if you are not really familiar with the medical situation. So you really need the connection to the treating doctor, the medical specialist. At the same time, if you leave it there, at least the overview is missing. You often put the treating doctor in a complicated position, because it has to decide whether or not to give someone a QR code. You don't really want to. So we've come to the next thing, and we want to put this down in a couple of weeks. We're creating the possibility that you can make an application. The application will then always be dealt with in consultation with the treating physician, the medical specialist. And if it turns out that there is no possibility of being vaccinated, and especially at 2G, that is what you need to look at, then a temporary QR code can be issued as an alternative. There's one thing I have to say. That pilot has really shown that there are quite a lot of people who think they can't be vaccinated or people who say they can't vaccinate, but who actually mean to say: I don't want to. Of course you always have to make a distinction in that, because otherwise 2G doesn't make any sense either. There's something else in there. A QR code that has been issued for participation, but not for the reason that one has actually built up protection, must of course always be accompanied by the advice: take care of yourself. Because one or two of them in such a large room is probably not such a big risk for the rest, but they are a big risk for themselves. There is therefore always a medical advice, in the vein of: beware of what you do and in which setting you enter yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u527	Mrs De Vries of the VVD and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u528	It takes a lot of words, but I am glad that at least we are looking and looking for a solution for this group, because I think that most of the Members of Parliament are getting a lot of e-mails from that group. Then I'm still curious when that could have been settled. The Minister states: in a few weeks. But if you would like to use corona tickets more widely, this will of course become all the more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u529	Yes. We're working on setting this up right now. This will have to be carried out by people who are skilled in social-medical advice. Those are people who need to be hired. So we also need to see how we can shape that in the most legitimate way. But of course we will do so as soon as possible, because otherwise you will actually hinder people in their social functioning. We'll do it as soon as we can anyway. If you will allow it, I would like to inform you at the next opportunity about the moment when it has actually been withdrawn. But that's gonna take a couple of weeks. That's not something you have with a week on your feet. Again, we have the group that approached us, which you have also approached and the e-mails that have come our way. So we've got that group involved in that pilot. So it's not like that group has been waiting for weeks to get a QR code at all. If they were eligible for the "Bikkewuiting" (Bikkewuiting), just to put it this way, they have had the opportunity to report and actually be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u530	I would like to go on about the people who cannot or do not want to be vaccinated and then get into trouble in that 2G system, that regime. Has any thought been given to what this means for the employment contract? Or what kind of influence is it going to have on society if a large part of people can't go to work and possibly lose their jobs? Or about what consequences this has in the different sectors, for example the care sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u531	First of all, the group of people who cannot be vaccinated is estimated to be a very small group. All medical specialists will acknowledge that. That's a group of at most a few thousand people. Most people who hesitate about whether they can actually be vaccinated will be told by their doctor, if they report there, that this is best for most people. Sometimes extra help is needed from an allergologist or another specialist, but that is all taken in. The group of people who really can't do it is really very small. That's one. Two is: 2G of course is not going to apply to the work. That would only apply to real high risk settings. For example, in case of high risk settings, think of the nighthoreca. So that greatly reduces the impact Mr Van Haga sketches. By the way, this is the case in many other countries. In many other countries, corona tickets are indeed required for the work. Sometimes there is even a vaccination obligation; look at the last step taken by the Belgian Government. This is the case in many other European countries, but this is not part of the cabinet proposals in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u532	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u533	Finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u534	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u535	Is this my last interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u536	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u537	Let us at least note here that there will be no 2G at work in any way. I understand that. Well, of course we have seen several times that this is a bit of the sliding scale cabinet, so let's stick to this: never 2G at work. Well, that's good. But, yes, my last interruption, I guess I'll dress up differently. A motion has been passed which I have co-signed and which has been tabled by Mrs Pouw-Verweij. That motion was about serological tests. They are becoming more and more important, because when we switch to 2G, everyone will naturally try to get at least a proof of recovery or to prove otherwise that he has had corona. That motion was supported by 150 MPs. Can we assume that this option is open at least before this cabinet moves to 2G? If not, do you have any idea when this option will become available?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u538	Well, no. I have just explained this to Mrs Pouw-Verweij, and I explained this to Mrs Pouw-Verweij in the previous debate. I was enthusiastic about it at first, but there are considerable restrictions on the use of serological tests for this. First of all, there is actually no good international standard with regard to these serological tests in order to be able to actually use a usable cut-off value to determine whether someone has built up sufficient immunity. That's one. Two is: blood collection is a reserved operation and therefore requires BIG-registered nurses. We don't have any. So if hundreds of thousands of people were to report for such a serological test, we would have a total implementation problem; we just can't do that. At least, we're talking about the actual serological tests. You also have serological rapid tests, but they are absolutely not reliable to handle. This means that the use of serological research for the application of the corona access card is not really possible. Mrs Pouw-Verweij said: I do not accept that. Of course, that's very good. She said, therefore, that we should look at how this is done in, I understand, Israel, Romania and a number of other countries where it seems that they are already doing so. That is what I promised: okay, that's what I'm gonna do; this was the advice the OMT gave us, but if we've found a solution in other countries, I'm gonna take a look at that, of course. But I am not going to create false hopes that this could lead to something useful in the short term. We have said, however, that we are going to extend the deadline, which has been one of your questions and also motions, I believe, from six months to one year and we are going to extend only GMD tests to commercial tests as well. That makes, I think, that many more people can claim a positive test they have had in the past year in order to apply for a recovery certificate. It already is. That extension to a year is already there and there is also the broadening to commercial testing. I promised Mrs Pouw-Verweij that I would respond to the search for serological tests in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u539	Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. This is the last question for her, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u540	I heard the outgoing minister say again: there are not so many people who are not going to be vaccinated; there are estimated to be a few thousand. I have already asked the question how the outgoing minister knows that there are only a few thousand. I think there are already tens of thousands of people with multiple disability, people with autoimmune disease and people with allergies. I'd like to know where that assessment came from. Rather: can we have the figures of the people who cannot actually be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u541	It's not on your own authority, you know. It's the assessment that RIVM makes. It is very difficult to actually get figures. You hear quite often: I take immunosuppressants, so I can't be vaccinated. Yeah, that's exactly what I'm talking about. In fact, it's very wise to do it. Multiple disabled people are also part of the highest risk group. It's very wise to do it. If you are in doubt, you should of course consult your treating doctor, but there is a good chance that the treated doctor says: yes, do the right thing. In one case, for example, if there are allergies, the doctor may say: yes, do, but let's involve an allergist. We have also made an arrangement for this to involve allergologists in this type of vaccination weighing. For example, we try to make the group as large as possible to include in the vaccination program. There may always be a small group that cannot make use of it, but whoever we consult about it, we always hear two answers. It's a very small group. How small? We can't put an exact number on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u542	The Minister continues his speech. You still have a second term. You've already asked an extra question. It's now 11:20. There are a number of other topics. You will also have a second deadline for a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u543	The question is really very short. Can I have the numbers and e-mail addresses of the people with whom the outgoing minister is in contact about those assessments? I'd like to find out for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u544	That's very special. I ask one of these questions to RIVM, the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment. I'm not gonna put RIVM employees' phone numbers in a letter or anything, am I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u545	So you can contact the RIVM. Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u546	I've just been drifting around with my pens. Every time a request comes out of the Chamber that the Minister does not think is possible, it is: there is no international standard, there is no scientific evidence, there are questions of effectiveness, there are implementation problems. I was wondering if there's an international standard for 2G. Is there sufficient evidence for the effectiveness of 2G? What about the implementation problems of 2G? Is there scientific evidence for 2G? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u547	In my opinion, I have just given a very detailed answer on the effectiveness of 2G, why you would like it and what the expectation is that you might have of it. I also said that there is already a model assessment of TU Delft, that we have asked the OMT to visualize the epidemiological effects, that the RIVM will model them and will also submit them for discussion in the Outbreak Management Team. So I think there's more and more out there about 2G. I also told you how we are reacting to the Westerveld motion, so we are doing more effective research. In short, what we know will be yours. What we want to find out in addition, you know. That is what I told you in the letter. In doing so, I will give effect to the Westerveld motion. I believe that we can discuss this further on Friday's OMT opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u548	That was one part of the four questions I asked. I had also asked questions about international standards, about scientific evidence and about implementation problems. But let's zoom in on effectiveness. In his reply, the Minister immediately stated that it was an expectation. Based on expectations, we are making policies that exclude 1.8 million people in society, while the minister has often said enough in the past that people will never have to prove that they have been vaccinated. The Minister also referred to proportionality in his reply. When we talk about an expectation on the one hand, how proportional does he consider the measure he intends to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u549	You ask a lot of questions together. At least, in your questioning there are a lot of stacked blames, you could almost say. But let me concentrate on the question. You have to face the fact that high risk settings such as the nighthoreca are not easily possible with high infection pressure, because at the moment they simply give too great a risk of spreading. Who's the biggest risk? For the people who haven't been vaccinated in there. Why? Because they didn't build protection. Especially if they haven't recovered from corona, they just haven't built up protection. Then there is a good chance that, even if they walk in without the virus, they will still walk out with that virus and then pass that virus on in a more unvaccinated environment. If people are vaccinated, they are 50% to 63% protected against transmission and 75% against infection. That makes it possible to assume that if you are with a large group of people, some of whom have been cured or vaccinated, you have built up protection and not another part, which is particularly problematic for the unprotected part in such a large setting. Then you can do some things. We will have to make this proportionality weighting here. You can say: if it is not justified to meet in such a large group in this composition, then we must make it impossible for everyone to meet in that large group. You can make that choice. Then you have to face a weighting of proportionality. Is that proportional to the 88.3%? Is that proportionate to the owner of that place? Or is it more proportionate to say that it can go on, but only for those who are sufficiently protected to make it sufficiently safe? That's the choice we have to make. Of course, you can also make a different assessment. I'm not saying this is the only consideration. You can also make the decision not to do it: I want it not to happen for everyone. That's possible, too. What is also a mode of implementation is the modality that Mrs Bikker or Mrs Westerveld puts on the table: wants to investigate whether you can also test everyone. Does that also give enough safety? We're all gonna check that out. We're all gonna investigate that, but at the end of the day, we do have choices to make. There are no easy choices. There are no easy choices in their design, but neither are there any more ethical considerations to make but complicated choices for this winter. We just have to face that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u550	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u551	I'm not saying it's easy. I also see that the Minister has a considerable task to do. At the same time, the measures taken as far as my group is concerned are not proportionate if we are going to do such an experiment with 2G, where there are doubts about proportionality. Because I could add to the proportionality proposed by the Minister another criterion of proportionality, namely that you are going to do it in a different way, that you are going to take all kinds of other measures that we have talked about in detail. If you look at these international standards and the scientific evidence and then take such a measure that almost 2 million people in society do not have the freedom to do certain things, well, then I think the Minister is going astray.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u552	I think you're jumping to that conclusion. Let us have this debate next week, but let us really look at it from all sides. Let's really look at what's fair here, because that's what it's really about. What's safe? Of course, that's the first question you have to answer. How can we open up society as much as possible, given the risk of spreading the infection and thus putting pressure on care? No one, of course, wants the care to be overwhelmed. If you have determined what would be safe, then the question is: do we want to? I have put it so sharply and so dischotomaly I am happy to be corrected by Mr Hijink, who says that of course that is not the only choice; that is also true because at the end of the day you may be faced with the choice: let us continue for that 88.3% or do we not do it for 100% of the people? The question at the time is: what is the most honest? What's the fairest thing for that entrepreneur, who just wants to make his living? What's the fairest thing about that 88.3%? You must first look at safety and then at what you want and what choice you make. I think that we need to deal with the experts in terms of epidemiological considerations, otherwise we will be playing virologist here, and we should not do that. But the political balance, which we consider proportional and fair, and what choice we want to make, must be made here together next week. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked what effect 2G has on employees. The answer is "no," because 2G we're not going to do in the work situation. I think I have already served Mrs Bikker by accepting the homework she has given us. I'm trying to do it as best I can. We will continue the debate on this subject. Mr President, I think I have had the questions about 2G. Then I'll continue with the questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u553	Before you proceed, Mr Stoffer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u554	I think this is my one-after-last question. I asked for it sideways in my first term, and I specifically raised it in the debate on the interruptions with the VVD and D66. I asked about the length of the 2G measure. Then I got the answer: as short as possible, but as long as it takes. I'm actually curious about the Minister's answer. I don't think we've had that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u555	I have already given the answer to Mrs Van Esch in the legal sense. You amended the Temporary Act in the sense that the Temporary Act does not take six months but three months. Working with the corona admission ticket has been hung by the Temporary Law measures at all. This implies that if you do not extend the Temporary Law measures, the maximum lifespan of all measures in that law will be three months. At the end of December, I am going to give you an outline of what the legal instruments for the year 2022 should look like, whether we should go through with the Temporary Law measures or let some articles sink into the Wpg, in preparation for the actual adaptation of the Wpg with the aim of making it truly crisis-proof. You'll get that sketch in December. If I had to answer the question of how long you need him more epidemiologically, I would say: give us a chance to think him through in relation to the level of risk that the Prime Minister has just described. There is a good chance that you can organize the execution modalities of the corona admission ticket as follows. At the level of risk, you don't need him in most settings; at the level of risk, you mainly use 3G and at the level of risk, which we are currently in, you use 2G in high risk settings. That would be a clear order, in which everyone knows where he is. Then you also foresee some kind of automatic weighting of proportionality. I believe that this would do justice to the situation in which we are sitting and to the necessary temporaryity of this measure, but give us a chance to do that homework and to give you a better and more complete answer next week than I can now. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the block of vaccination. I have mentioned the percentage 88.3 before, but that is perhaps also because I am so pleased that every time we crawl up four-tenths or three-tenths. This week it was four tenths. I'd rather it went up by 4%, but four tenths is still over 100,000 shots in a week. That's a good thing, because every percent and every tenth percent counts, especially with such a high infection pressure. First of all, I agree with everyone who has said that we must continue to reach everyone. That should be as easy as possible. In the letter, I outlined in detail the neighbourhood approach that we are developing, partly on the suggestion of Mrs Bikker, Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kuik. We had a debate on this last time. For the sake of time, I am not going to go into that now. But I do use this neighbourhood approach to provide a good answer to what Mrs Kuik is asking, namely: why not inform vulnerable 50-plussers from door to door? In the neighbourhoods in the 30 municipalities that we have selected for the neighbourhood approach, we do indeed want to increase the vaccination rate in a very accessible way, so to speak door to door. By the way, that's not something the GGD is starting with right now. Since May we have been working on that fine-meshed vaccination and we see puncture locations at the university, in the mosque, mobile in the neighborhood. We also see general practitioners who are on the market on their free Saturday. We're really in the capillaries of the neighborhood. Analogous to the question that Mr Paternotte has raised before, namely how to raise the vaccination rate further, especially among 50-plussers, I think we should do everything we can to increase the vaccination rate as close as possible to people themselves and as easily as possible. The neighborhood approach is a follow-up to fine-meshed vaccination, which we are already doing. In 30 municipalities this is the most concentrated. That's what we're working on with the G.D.D.'s. I would like to come back to that. Then there are people who think they should pay for it, according to the UMCG study, which Mr Paternotte and Mrs Van Esch referred to, or who are still waiting for an invitation. That's fascinating. That's fascinating because I think people are getting tired of us because of all the commercials. You're really tripping over the campaigns at that point. But apparently there are still people who think: how about it; do I actually have to pay for it? Everyone in the base registration has had a letter. Anyone who hasn't shown up has had a repeat letter. We've done a lot of public campaigns. We don't know how many millions spent on all communication. We're actually pretty much in the middle of it, and we're still doing it. For the sake of relativity, I note that of the 23,000 people involved in that study, 6% indicate that they have not been vaccinated. 10% of that 6% of that unvaccinated group says they're still waiting for an invitation. That's about 138 of those 23,000 people. So let's not pretend that a lot of people still haven't had that invitation. That's not true. At 138 out of 23,000 you can also imagine that it ended up somewhere at the bottom of the pile of mail. We ask RIVM if it recognizes that. RIVM does not recognise this now in its current studies for the reasons why people have not yet been vaccinated. RIVM also has contact with the researchers of the UMCG about this Lifeline study among respondents in the North of the Netherlands to see how they could get this result from research and not RIVM. Does RIVM have to ask other questions? Should it make another selection in the research group? In short, it's work in progress. If this could be in any way the reason why we do not allow ourselves to be vaccinated, we must of course want to resolve it. Then there is the question of special actions for migrant workers. Yeah, there are. A lot of it. Vans have been made available by temporary employment agencies who take the workers to the GD vaccination sites. Many migrant workers also happen to live in the neighbourhoods with a low vaccination rate at all, where we go into the neighborhood in order to increase the vaccination rate door by door. The mobile punchboxes and mobile teams are a great help. In addition, all information on the site pebbles without appointment.nl has been translated into eleven languages. Most migrant workers speak at least one of those 11 languages. With that, I don't think there's an excuse, for anyone, to miss the message.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u556	I immediately believe that one of these 11 languages will be spoken, but the question is whether we are looking at such websites at all. During this debate I got some apps. On the one hand, it refers to young people, but on the other hand it also refers to people with a different cultural background. I think we should ask GPs if there's any extra attention to that. It may not be seen at the place where we put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u557	Absolutely. We do so along the line of education, along the line of temporary employment agencies, along the line of employers, along the line of prick buses in the neighborhood, along the line of mosques where there are mobile prick locations. We're doing everything that might help us find the group that hasn't been vaccinated yet. It must be true that you stumble over a place where you can be vaccinated or that you encounter them just as often that you have really overcome all your doubts and have been able to ask all your questions. That's really necessary, yeah. Then, Mrs Gündoğan, about vaccinating the world. Work must be done on the production and release of patents. Of course, we've talked about that a lot. In line with the Piri motion, the cabinet in the WTO discussions continues to press for a proactive and constructive negotiation on the basis of the concrete texts on a limited waver proposal aimed at corona vaccines. I note that the intellectual property system also allows large-scale research. The research that has led to the vaccines that we are now so gratefully using has also been made possible by this system of intellectual property. So let's not throw that overboard too quickly. Mr Omtzigt asked whether the cabinet was prepared to speak with opponents and advocates of vaccination and with people in the care. Yes. That's basically what we do every day. I don't do that every day in person, but the GGDs do exactly this with the fine-meshed vaccination in the neighborhood, for months, actually since May. They're talking to people who have doubts and questions and concerns. Often these people need a few conversations before they get over that doubt or that concern. GPs also help; there are all kinds of actions. Speaking to unvaccinated people is what we are doing with thousands of people at the same time, from the GGDs and many other organisations. That's one. Two is speaking to exhausted people in care. Yeah, I'm afraid so. You'll have that, too, if you're on a job visit to the care department. Those are very intrusive conversations about what it's doing to them. We should definitely feed them. Of course, that's how we try to understand all these concerns. Moreover, we are also talking, of course, to exhausted entrepreneurs, who are exhausted from the measures they always have to face in order to relieve the pressure on care. We are in a situation where the rack is out on all sides, both in health care and in society. That also makes our work so difficult and the work of your Chamber so complicated. You have to want to understand and internalize all these concerns in order to make a good choice in the balance of interests. Then the booster campaign, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked, for example the questions put by Mrs Den Haan and, in fact, by Mrs Agema. Why can't we go any faster? Shouldn't it just be faster? And shouldn't you have started earlier? Especially for that last reason, I think it is good to tell you again how things have been since the summer. From the summer onwards, we asked the Health Council: is this the time to start the booster shot? Until the summer we have been working on the vaccination campaign at all. Just after the summer, we asked the Health Council if we should put the booster shot. The answer was: well, we're not actually seeing any reduction in vaccine effectiveness right now, at least if you measure it to the primary reason that you put vaccines at all, namely preventing serious infection and hospitalization. In addition, the Health Council also recalled the WHO call to see where vaccines have the most effect. If you don't see any decreasing vaccine effectiveness here in the Netherlands, you'd rather look elsewhere in the world, where people haven't even had their first shot. In addition, the Health Council said: you should start preparing for the booster campaign as soon as you see that there is a decline in vaccine effectiveness. We then asked the question again in mid-October, because we had accepted with RIVM that we would be informed once every two weeks about vaccine effectiveness. The RIVM said that it wasn't very much on the agenda, but that you saw a single percent reduction in vaccine effectiveness among the oldest elderly in the Netherlands. In particular, there were more examples of this internationally, especially in those countries which had started earlier. So that was the time to do the booster campaign. That is why we have again asked the Health Council to advise us on this. That opinion was delivered on 2 November. We then agreed with the GGD to start the booster campaign on 6 December. Then came the motion-Den Haan/Paternotte, which said: do everything to speed it up. And I was just so excited to report that we've done everything we can to speed up, and that we're starting the booster campaign this week. So that's half a month earlier. So it's really very fast, between November 2nd and mid-November.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u558	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u559	So this week we start with the group of 80-plussers who is mobile, which is next Thursday, and also with the care staff. It's starting this week. As of next week, we will start with the people in institutions with their own medical services.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u560	What I find difficult about this look back is that last week, when Mrs Westerveld asked questions, the Minister also said in Question Time: in September, the Health Council said that we should get it ready. What I and I think a lot of people assumed was that we were ready to go at the time when the Health Council would say "go." For a lot of people it was really amazing that then the preparations begin. In France it started in September. We saw what other countries were doing. Of course, they're not completely crazy. If we do it now at this rate, I predict that we will be bumping back in Europe. If we're not going to start with the 80-minners until January, we're not actually going to get there until the middle or even the end of the season with something you need at the beginning of the season. My question is whether the Minister would like to see whether it is possible to do the same for the larger groups. At least he's been able to speed up a few weeks, which I'm very happy about. We need to start the catch-up race.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u561	Look, the way we wanted to do the booster campaign was thought out. Of course, we had to wait for the advice to have the target group actually set. But of course it is not surprising that that would be the 60-plussers. In comparison with other countries, you should be aware that we started earlier, namely in October, with the people with severe immune impairment. Actually, your question is: couldn't it be faster? I know the G.D.D.s. They'll go faster if they can go faster. That's totally the G.D.D.'s bet. They're also careful about promising things that are very difficult to live up to. What they actually have to do in the vaccination campaign alone, so before vaccination, is grow from 7,000 to 22,000 employees. This is still separate from testing, from the call centres and so on, the capacity of which also has to double. It is considered real in this labour market to be there in January. If you manage to work with more people sooner and if you have trained those people before, then the GGD is the first to say: I can do it even faster. I would also like to be careful with the predictions on that point, because I know that people look very closely at that type of statement. They then put a cross in their calendar: then it's my turn. So you don't want to raise false expectations. But if we have the understanding that the GGD really needs to do it as soon as possible and that we need to provide people with a booster shot as soon as possible, I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u562	I think everyone is indeed pleased that we are starting early. However, I believe that the great desire of many parties in this Chamber is still that we should try to bring forward the 60-plussers, the people between 60 and 80 years old. I understand that there is a huge box of work at the GGD, but I would like to challenge the Minister to that. I understand he's picking up the glove. I do have another question about the advice requested on Janssen and AstraZeneca. When is that advice coming from the Health Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u563	I think the Janssen recommendation is coming this week. The AstraZeneca group has already been included. So the AstraZeneca group is already in the primary group to booster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u564	I think there was a special question. Together with D66 and PvdA the VVD asked questions about this. There are also signs where you can see a dip between 60 and 65 years old. That's just the group AstraZeneca had. That is a concern of many people and also of a number of parties, at least. I'm sure this will live even wider in the Chamber. So I find it a little too easy for the Minister to say that this has already been included. I would really like to draw particular attention to this and I hope that additional action will be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u565	I asked the Health Council to advise specifically on Janssen, because the age groups Janssen had were people under 60 years of age. The Janssen research has been often quoted in recent weeks, but very incorrect. RIVM says Janssen's actual vaccine effectiveness against hospitalization is still high. Nevertheless, I think that we should put that question again to the Health Council. As regards AstraZeneca, the Health Council has already advised: those people belong to the primary group to booster. The Health Council has also said that age is the most important risk indicator. Not the type of vaccine, but age is therefore the main risk indicator for the reduction of immunity and protection against hospitalisation. That is why the Health Council has appointed the group for a booster that is currently designated. Let me do it with you like this. I understand that you would actually like the Health Council to make a separate ruling on AstraZeneca. I believe that this is not part of the request for advice that we have made, because Astra was already included and the request for advice was actually about Janssen. However, I would like to ask the Health Council that the request for advice should also be understood in such a way that a new ruling is also needed on the AstraZeneca group, even if only to reassure people who belong to that group. Do I understand you so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u566	Perhaps a brief clarification. There were also data from Sanquin that showed that it was lower for that group. I would very much like that to be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u567	I saw that. I saw that broadcast, too. But that was all about antibodies. Antibodies are, of course, not the measure of how to actually measure immunity. That's just what can be measured in the blood. That's why Sanquin comes with it. But you can't read vaccine effectiveness only from the presence of antibodies. There is also cellular immunity et cetera. It's almost biology here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u568	We have repeatedly seen in presentations by Jaap van Dissel that vaccinees most infect each other in groups where especially Astra has been pricked. Of course, that's not just because of age. It's not like 60s are the most socialists in this society. In other words: of course there is more to this than Sanquin...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u569	A huge sneer towards the sixties, this. I wouldn't dare take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u570	Not the least, I'd say. Is Mrs Van den Berg in her 60s? I didn't know that. Sixty-six socialists, of course, do a lot, but I wouldn't say that's what they do most. That's actually the point I wanted to make. No, but I'm serious about the need to tighten this up a little bit. The questions we have already asked are about the fact that many people under 60 years of age have been pricked with Astra: people who are obese in the risk groups through the general practitioner, care workers, people who have received trash can vaccines from general practitioners. They have the same point: significantly decreasing immunity. So they're more at risk. Especially when it comes to the risk groups that have been pricked by the general practitioner, that is a real disadvantage. That is why we said: take that into account in the opinion of the Health Council. To be honest, I understood from the Ministry that this was happening. I now hear from the Minister that it didn't happen. I would like to look specifically at this, because they are not just 60-plussers, as the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u571	I would like to make one point for clarification and then a procedural comment. Keep me good. I seem to recall that we only made the additional request for advice about Janssen. But I'll check it out. Perhaps we have also asked a supplementary question about AstraZeneca. I believe that it is only about Janssen, for the reason I have just mentioned, namely because the AstraZeneca group was already included. As far as protection is concerned, I think it is a good thing to want to see why we are putting this booster in place. We're gonna put that booster in because you don't want any decreasing protection from hospital admissions. The protection against hospitalization is still above 90% for those over 60s. You can only see it in the oldest group. That group has not had Astra; it has had a mRNA vaccine. In short, I will check whether we have asked the question in such a way that it fits in with what you would have wanted. If it isn't, I will. If so, you may be reassured. Know that the reason I say that the Astra group was already included and that age is the most important indicator is as follows. I'll start with immunity and vaccine effectiveness where age, not the type of vaccine, is the most important predictor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u572	Thank you. Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group and then Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u573	I can tell I'm getting a little irritated. I just want to get back to the point of communication. In my view, that is where the Minister says something contradictory. In September it will be indicated: go prepare. 2 November will actually start the preparation. And then the Minister says: we've all done it quickly. Turns out there's a problem with the registration. There's not enough staff. Didn't we know that sometime in the autumn, let's leave the date in the middle of that booster campaign? I mean, wouldn't this kind of thing have been done a long time ago? Secondly, is the Minister aware that as Dutch people in other countries, such as Austria and France, we can simply walk in and get a booster shot, but we must ensure that it is registered here? How can it be done in other countries and not here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u574	Two things about that. I don't think this is a correct representation, just looking at the preparations we made. That has been a very quick preparation. If you look at the capacity the GGD needs to do such a booster campaign properly, you can see that it's about a scaling-up of about 7,000 employees, who were vaccinating up to the moment of that booster shot, to 22,000 employees. That's an impressive amount of people. You can say that: had she already accepted it. That's what I hear. Yeah, but who's gonna get hired for work that's not there yet, but that's gonna be there? Of course you're not gonna do that. If you're looking for a job, you actually want to get to work. Then you don't want to sit on the couch until there's work. In short, the idea that you can hire thousands of people and keep them on the payroll if the work isn't there yet is really an idea fix in a tight labour market. That's one. Two. I think we are asking or making too much of this kind that booster could have a big effect on the current wave. The booster helps, of course, as a boost to maintain vaccine effectiveness against serious infections and hospitalisations. This is the case at a few percentage points of the oldest elderly, so you need to get them back up. But this does not, of course, affect, for example, those who still have to get a first shot and who have been admitted to a hospital for that reason or who are infected for that reason. In short, the expectation you may have of the booster for this wave is very low. That's what the Health Council says. The booster is not an instrument for combating the epidemic at the moment. It may be an instrument in preventing another wave, but not of this wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u575	That is just an argument for me to say: you should have put it in before. Then on the labour market. We have also, of course, talked about, for example, vaccinating non-mobile elderly people living at home at home. There are all kinds of helpers who have offered to help with pricking. What's the Minister doing with that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u576	All the troops are very welcome. That is why we have also asked the care: can care please sting care? In any case, we have done the approximately 1 million care workers who can get that booster as soon as possible, without affecting the pace of boostering of the 60- to 80-year-olds and the 80-plussers. With regard to this wave, the idea seems to be that this booster could help in the wave at the moment. But that could only happen if the wave of this moment as a background has diminished immunity. This is at most the case with a few percentage points of the oldest group, but that is not the reason why people are currently in hospitals. For about half the reason that no vaccine has been given and for the other half it is in particular that part of the elderly in whom vaccines do not work at all. The decreasing immunity is not so much the reason for the height of the wave at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u577	We're really sitting here listening to a huge bullshit story. The minister says "yes, we have to wait for decreasing vaccine effectiveness first," and "yes, advice Health Council," and "yes, the GGD," and "yes, the GGD doesn't have people anymore and has to start taking them first," and "yes, if we can, we will of course start vaccination of the 60-plus-risk groups before January." But let's face it: right now, the minister is filling the slots, the pricking arrangements, with teenagers who are afraid they're gonna be able to shop by 2G in a couple of weeks. At the moment, the shots are being placed on people who feel forced to be vaccinated, on young people who are not going to be hospitalized. Right now, we all have breakthrough infections and breakthrough recordings. The minister might want to take a look at the table I'm showing with the 60-plussers. Those teenagers are never in there. Now those stings are given to teenagers. The appointments are filled with teenagers who are afraid of 2G, while here are all breakthrough recordings. That line flies up at 60s, 70s and 80s. So how come the Minister doesn't just say here: I'm actually doing the wrong policy and I'm going to call the risk groups, first the obesity people, 60-plus, for that booster vaccination to make sure that this disaster is averted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u578	Just a few things. I think it is a good thing to say first of all what this booster shot is intended for. That booster shot is intended to maintain the immunity that protects against severe infection and hospitalization. Do we see them taking away from very large groups at the moment? No. You want to get ahead of that moment, and that's why we're starting that booster campaign as a precaution. You can actually see now in the oldest group that immunity decreases a few percent. It follows that we are on time with that booster. That's one. Two is that it also results from that that you cannot say that at the moment there is talk that it has not yet given that booster is the reason that we are in the wave of this moment. The Health Council also says this very clearly: don't expect too much about this wave. We do not know what the effect of a booster on transmission is, and the people who are now in hospitals are the people who have very little immune response at all, often with a lot of underlying suffering. That's the group of vaccinees that gets into the hospital. And the group of non-vaccines at the hospital isn't helping you with a booster. You could have helped with a first shot, but they didn't have one. That's the point. In short, you have to want to put those first shots. You should. In addition, in parallel, you should just want to put that booster prick, for the group that needs that booster prick the most. The 80-plussers and the people in the nursing homes first. I heard you say in your contribution that we will not start until January. Of course it isn't. That is what we are going to start with this week and with the institutions next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u579	We just got from the GGD yesterday on the sheets in January, you know. So don't try to change that story here, if yesterday the GGD just said during the presentation: January when it comes to 60-plussers, risk groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u580	That's not what I'm saying. I say we...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u581	Mrs. Agema first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u582	I ask the Minister how he can insist here that he does not see any reduction in vaccine effectiveness. Does he not see how that line flies up among those sixties, seventies and eighties? Is he blind? This is NICE. I didn't make this up. These are today's NICE data. It's flying up here. I can't help but think that the Minister here will continue to defend his own policy, that he will fill lock locks with teenagers who are afraid that they won't be able to shop through 2G in a couple of weeks, while those teenagers are still under that blue line. They don't cause the trouble. They don't cause the care to get stuck. That's not caused by the teenagers. Why doesn't he give those lock locks to the 60s, 70s and 80s, starting with the people with a BMI of over 40? Why doesn't he? Then maybe you can turn this away!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u583	You're standing with a graph in your hands that isn't RIVM and I don't know, so it's a little hard to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u584	I am going to ask Mrs Agema what kind of graph it is, where it comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u585	This exact graph from two days ago was used yesterday by Mr Van Dissel in his presentation. This one's just today, it's newer. It's NICE's. That's the information the Minister uses. So don't act like I'm just bringing stuff with me! These are just the dates we all use here!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u586	Well, well. I'm gonna go into the questions anyway. First of all, why are you giving that booster shot? That's what you do when you see the immunity, the vaccine effectiveness, starts to decrease. And what measure do we take in terms of vaccine effectiveness? It's about hospitalization. That is what we are actually seeing at the moment, especially in the oldest group. There you see a few percent drop. That has been the reason for a renewed advice from the Health Council. That came on November 2nd and we start mid-November. That's really fast. That's one. Two is what group you start with. You can't start with 5.5 million people on the same day in the same week. 5.5 million people are a lot, so who are you gonna start with? Well, with the 80-plussers and the people who live in the institutions. The most practical thing is to start with the people who live in the institutions with their own medical service. They're the fastest to get to work. The institutions with their own medical service were able to order for the first time last Monday and Tuesday. They'll be delivered next week and can also start pricking next week. The mobile 80-plussers will be invited this week. This week the first shot will be made. In short, the booster campaign is starting. That's really good news. Can you do everything and everyone at the same time? No, you can't. Mrs Agema assumes that the booster could actually mean something in the current wave. That's what the Health Council says it isn't. So you don't have to make it an epidemiological instrument. You need to use it to reverse decreasing vaccine effectiveness and use it as a booster to restore vaccine effectiveness. That's the reason to give the booster shot. The people who are now entering hospitals are largely unvaccinated. For this, a booster does not help; they should have taken a first and a second shot. In addition, you have people whose immune response is working so badly that they have not been able to prevent hospitalisation. It's always the case that no matter how many boosters you give, there's always a percentage of about 6%, 7%, 8% of the people in whom it doesn't work enough to prevent hospitalization. That's the group you meet in the hospitals. Why is that a large number now? Because so many people have been vaccinated and because the infection pressure is so high.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u587	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u588	No, I'm not going into this anymore, Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna get into this anymore. However, I would like to make it clear that up to now we have not received the most recent data on the percentage of vaccinees in our hospitals. Those dates are two weeks old. I was just showing you today's data, but the data Professor Van Dissel showed about it are two weeks old. Then I'm talking about the 44% fully vaccinated in the hospital. We expect the new information on this. Maybe we'll get that tomorrow for the WHO, but I don't think it's right for the Minister here to share information with us that's two weeks old and then pretend it's recent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u589	The information I share is the most accurate one I have. New figures will be available next Thursday. RIVM does that once every two weeks. RIVM will do this one more time on Thursday and will take it into the epidemiological picture on Tuesdays from that point on. New dates will be available every two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u590	I have very worrying signals from parents who are in all states, because their child has been secretly vaccinated without the parents having given their consent and without those children having, according to the firm conviction of those parents, even the faintest idea of what they have injected into their healthy body. It's always pure and simple that they can go back to McDonald's or on a school trip. Apart from all moral, ethical and medical objections to the vaccination of children, there is also a legal objection. The law prohibits the vaccination of children aged 12, 13, 14 or 15 years without the consent of parents. Only by way of extreme exception can vaccination be carried out without authorisation if the child continues to wish it well. My question to the outgoing minister is: if a child doesn't have a parents' presence at a puncture site, how is it currently being checked if that child has permission? And if not, how is it checked whether that child can be considered capable of making an informed consideration of something as complex as this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u591	The regulation is structured in such a way that, in principle, there is a consensus under 16 years of age. Then it is assumed that you decide the same as a child and as parents, and that you decide the same together. From 16 years it is your own decision when it comes to such a medical operation. There are indeed a number of cases known. A judge has even made a judgment in the case of a child who was under the age of 16 and himself wanted to, against the will of his father. In this case, it was a boy from a divorced family situation. He wanted to be vaccinated against his father's wishes. His father filed a lawsuit about that. The judge has ruled that the current law must be interpreted in such a way that consent is absolutely preferable, but at the end of the day it may be up to the child himself to say: I want to be protected anyway and so I make that choice myself. It's possible. That is exactly the way the legislation is structured.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u592	That's right. I am familiar with this legislation and also with the case law cited by the outgoing minister. But my question is: how is it now, when a child reports to a puncture site without parents, whether that child has permission, and if not, whether that child can be considered able to make an informed decision himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u593	It's up to the person at the puncture site to ask that question and to have that conversation with young people. That's what's gonna happen. But at the end of the day, young people can make that choice themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u594	Well, I'm getting signals that it's not being checked at all and that there's no conversation at all, but that it's just being said, "Welcome. Sit down. Stroke up your sleeve." If, at the end of the journey, the child decides to continue wanting that vaccine, it is indeed the child under the law. Of course, however, we must check whether the child makes an informed decision. Can the Minister guarantee that this is currently being monitored and that children, who have no idea what they are getting injected for, will be given that injection without the consent of the parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u595	What I have just said is what is legal practice. What I'm describing to you is also what the implementation practice is. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u596	I have very different signals. I would therefore ask the Minister to say that he is going to check again whether the law is being complied with at the moment. Because the information I have I have demonstrably proof of this, which I will come up with at a later stage, is that right now in children of even 12 years of age, who are known to have no consent from the relevant GGD employee and who are known to have no idea what they are going to inject into their body, that injection is being given anyway. That is very worrying. This is about children's health. I would therefore ask the Minister to make this commitment here tonight and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u597	What you just described, of course, is also possible. It may also be that a 12-plusser, a 12- to 16-year-old, goes to the prick's street and still goes to get that shot, even though his father or mother doesn't agree with it. So that's possible. Assuming that that wouldn't be possible, because he himself has no idea what he's doing... I don't think I'd want to look at 12-year-olds, 13-year-olds, 14-year-olds or 15-year-olds like that. I have a few of them at home in that age group. They know pretty well what they want and what they're up to. That's a good thing. That goes for a lot of teenagers. You prefer consent, but if there is no consent, then a child may make this choice, because here too, the integrity of one's own body is paramount. That fundamental consideration can go beyond parental authority, yes. That is the balance that the legislator has already made for us. Our predecessors did that for us. But I would actually like to make another commitment to Mr Van Meijeren. If you really have a concrete example of this, where the implementation practice is not in line with what I have just outlined, with the legal practice as it should be and with the implementation practice as I know it, then I am really looking forward to that example. You say you have multiple signals. I don't need to see all of them, but give me one signal. Then I'm gonna ask the inspection if they'd like to check that signal. Then I will also ask Mr Van Meijeren, if in reality it turns out to be a little different from what he has just described, to face that again and to say: hey, did this not actually happen in a very good way? Is it not very nice that we actually give young people control of Article 11 of the Constitution, namely the integrity of their own bodies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u598	The outgoing minister contradicts himself. First, he indicated that when a child of 12, 13, 14 or 15 comes to a location, it is checked whether there is permission and a conversation. That would be the implementation practice. The situation I'm sketching is that a child is reporting to a location and isn't being checked at all if the child has permission and still lets it roll up his sleeve, without having any idea what the vaccine is for and what the medical risks are for. My question is whether the Minister can rule that out. Then he says: no, what Mr Van Meijeren is describing can indeed occur in practice. But I would like to outline a very different situation from the implementation practice described by the outgoing minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u599	That a child himself makes that choice, and that this can also be a contrecoeur at home, so against the will of his parents, that is possible. It's possible. What should not be possible is that this conversation is not being held. What Mr Van Meijeren accepts, but I do not agree with that, is that such a teenager would not be able to see enough about the effectiveness of a vaccine and why he would like it. I don't agree with him. I do not think Mr Van Meijeren can judge that either for teenagers or for himself. They are very well able to make these kinds of considerations. You want it to be consensual, but also in the absence of consent, that shot can be put, if the child wants it. It's good if we talk about that before we actually get that shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u600	I think the Minister is making a commitment to study and come back to a case of yours, Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u601	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u602	One important point, however. The Minister talks about a choice that a child can make on his own. Then, of course, it is essential for a child to be properly informed. The letter that children are receiving at the moment contains factual inaccuracies, namely that a vaccine is safe and that there are no serious side effects, while the truth is that it has not been investigated at all whether there are long-term side effects. In addition, that argument of choice is, of course, very complicated if you first take away all their freedoms. They can't go back to McDonald's. They can't go on a school trip anymore. Then you assume that they make a well-considered decision about whether or not they want an injection. And one last thing: I didn't say at all that no child from 12 to 16 can make such an informed choice, but I'm talking about children who can't. Does the Minister recognise that there are also children who cannot be regarded as capable of making that informed decision on their own? Does the Minister recognise that there is no real choice when children are emotionally blackmailed if they are no longer allowed on a school trip if they are not injected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u603	A few things. The fact that you say that the invitation would contain untruths is, of course, incorrect. That's just bullshit. It simply refers to the state of science. The state of science is that vaccines are safe and effective. Billions of vaccines have been administered worldwide. The side effects are well tracked. They have a very good view of it. The second is "yes, yes, that's why that conversation should also take place "that it may be that young people should not be considered able to take that vaccine. This will indeed apply to a number of young people. At least, that they should not be considered able to see whether or not they make an informed choice. You have to make sure of that as a health care provider. That's why that conversation is necessary. That is why I am curious about the case presented by Mr Van Meijeren. Do we agree that young people should also make that choice? Yes, the legislator has decided that for us, so our predecessors. I also believe that this is appropriate to Article 11 of the Constitution. If you take a different view, namely that young people cannot see it at all and that it should only be after parental consent, that would actually mean that the extent to which parents are willing to give consent is decisive for the exercise of the 11th paragraph of the Constitution. And that's also a crazy situation. That can never be the point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u604	I would now like to ask the Minister for his... you are through your interruptions, Mr. Van Meijeren. You also have a second term. No, this was your sixth. I give the floor to the Minister. I'd like to ask the Minister to answer only the questions that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u605	Yes. I come across Mrs De Vries' question, which I had in front of me in another variant. Maybe I can come right back to the consultation request to the Health Council. It says: "Finally, I ask the Health Council, with the above question as a starting point, to also advise on the provision of a booster vaccine for the group of people under 60 years of age who received AstraZeneca's vaccine." Caregivers and 60-plusers vaccinated with the AstraZeneca vaccine will soon be eligible for booster vaccination. In short, a question is also asked about the other people who have been pricked with AstraZeneca. Thus, the Health Council explicitly comes back to the Astra group, just to describe it for a moment. It seems that Mr Paternotte knows better what advice I asked the Health Council than I could remember. Can you check it out? "Sorry," I hear. Yeah, I was worried about that, too. Let's see. I've already had this question. I think I've had the questions about the booster, so I'll get to the kids from 5 to 12 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u606	Before you go to the children, there is a question from Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u607	Of course, it seemed to be moving too fast for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u608	One question I haven't answered yet. It was about the booster for the people working in education, especially in childcare and primary education. The care is taken separately. But it is precisely the group in childcare and primary education that is at risk because children up to 12 years of age are not vaccinated either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u609	Again: why do we give the booster? Actually, for the whole of the Netherlands, you are giving the booster when you see that there is decreasing immunity against serious illness and hospitalization. Why is that different in the care department? Because where care is no longer in place, the accessibility of care will be even more under pressure, while it will already be very under pressure. That has such an enormous impact on the fight against this epidemic that we have said that you need to take care of it separately. The employees in childcare and education will naturally be involved, but they do not belong to the priority target group to be boosterd.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u610	No, they don't belong to the priority target group, I understand. That was why I asked the question. The Minister says: yes, but those people may get less sick. But if they get sick, it's gonna have a huge impact on the kids. So it may be consequences in another area, but it has enormous consequences for children if teachers fail and such a whole class has to go home in a manner of speaking. And that also has a big impact on the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u611	Yeah, that's true. But the question is, of course, would you consider that more important than protecting those 5.5 million people or the million employees in healthcare? If that's more important to you, you could put them up front. Probably the answer to that question is: no, it's not. And then I say: but it has already been provided for, because they will come on their own, namely when they are also given the opportunity to get booster shot. So, in the end, everyone gets the opportunity. The Health Council has advised: only the 60-plussers, and the care as an option. We have said that we are doing that option on care anyway. By the way, the 60-minners are all given the opportunity to get that booster shot, only after the primary group has been. I also like to stick to that, because otherwise we will get back to what we had last year when we had this shortage of vaccines, namely that there were all clubs that had to be messed up and had to go before and so on. If everyone wants to get in front of the bus, then eventually everyone's in the back. That's not helping. So you also want to do the order of things from the logic of why we give that booster. Then it's real: primary protection, so protect against hospitalization and severe infection. That's the reason to give that booster. And after the 60-plussers have been, all the other groups come in. Then the kids. Can vaccinate under 12 be looked at? On 26 October, I asked the Health Council to advise on the possibility to vaccinate children with a medical risk under 12 years of age. This question is particularly important for vulnerable children belonging to one of the medically high-risk groups. There is one vaccine, Pfizer, that has applied for the registration of a covid vaccine, by the way, with an adjusted dose, for children between 5 years and 12 years of age. On the basis of the information now available, the opinion of the EEA is expected in November. That is what we now know about EEA. As soon as possible after the EEA assessment, the Health Council will give its opinion, as always, on the vaccination of children between 5 and 12 should the vaccine be authorised for this group. That's the expectation. The Health Council has been asked to include in the advice the insights of medical specialists, namely which target group should be involved. The first delivery of BioNTech/Pfizer's child vaccine with a modified dose was foreseen in December. That'll be 42,000 doses. And all European countries receive the first delivery in the week of 20 December, so the same applies to the whole of Europe in terms of liver rate. And if that delivery could be made early, that would be equally true for all countries. The scenarios for the implementation of the vaccination of vulnerable children are currently being prepared and devised. But that also depends on the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u612	I hear the Minister talking about vulnerable children. Honestly, I get a lot of questions from parents. They say: I see all these outbreaks in primary schools. Of course, children are less vulnerable, but there are still about 56 20-miners in the hospital with corona, I understood. So I can imagine that there are quite a few parents who would like to choose. Now I know that they have already started it in Austria and that they say in Germany: if the EEA decides on this on Wednesday, then we want to start with it. I hear the Minister about vulnerable children. If the Health Council has no objection, would it not be logical for us to say: we may not have to offer it actively, but we can at least give all these parents the freedom of choice, so that vaccination is open to them if they want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u613	I don't really want to anticipate the advice of the Health Council. If you are asking me whether it is a cabinet intention, the answer is "no." Yeah, for vulnerable kids, sure. Especially for children who could actually experience a serious infection due to a covid infection. What kind of kids are they? I'd say let's leave that to the Health Council. I'm not in favour of doing it for all children in advance, but, well, I just want to weigh up the advice of the Health Council. The Health Council does that, I think, in the way they always do: they always look at the utility-risk distribution. That's a bit of a weird term, but when it comes to balancing vaccines, that's the way to look at it. What could be the individual interest of a child? Is it just about the importance of collective immunity, or is there really an individual interest for a child? They will weigh this against the disease burden that may be there among the group of children as a whole, but certainly among individual children, and this will be compared to possible side effects. This leads you to a well-founded and rationalised utility risk distribution or utility risk weighting. Hence, the Health Council advises whether or not to do it. I'd actually like to wait for that advice to come. Then the cabinet will consider this question. We will then discuss this in the Chamber. Anyway, it remains that the first delivery is now expected in the week of 20 December. That's a delivery of 42,000. I think that would be more of a delivery that would allow you to do a high-risk group rather than open it wider. For the time being, this applies to the first deliveries. Then the combi with the flu shot: why don't we do that? In fact, it has not been sufficiently established that this is safe; that is the point. Other countries do, I understand, but I can't help it either. That's no reason for us to do it. The Health Council advises on this, the RIVM advises on this. They looked at simultaneously giving the flu shot and booster vaccination. A further vaccination has been considered, because in addition to the flu shot, many elderly people already receive pneumococcal shots. That would be three vaccines in no time, and that's a little much of the good. We just don't know if it's safe. It's not like we know it's unsafe, but we don't know it's safe. That's why RIVM and the Health Council say for sure: make sure it doesn't coincide completely, so two weeks in between at the front or at the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u614	It's strange to me. I've gotten this answer before, but it's strange to me. Even The Lancet has published that it's safe. The Guardian has clearly stated that this would help to speed up the implementation of the booster injection in the United Kingdom, especially to those target groups that are more difficult to reach. We are also struggling here in the Netherlands that certain groups are difficult to reach. General practitioners do a very good job in this, so it could be a huge discharge when giving a flu shot, especially to people with, for example, a migration background, who often have a greater distance from the government and the care, to follow the international protocol and not to be stubborn, I think. My question to the Minister is to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u615	There's no question of being stubborn. We simply have our advisory bodies, the Health Council and the RIVM, and it seems to me that I have to go on these advisory bodies and not say, "Oh, I care what the Health Council thinks; they do it in France, so we do it. That's one. Two is: it is not the case that we call on the general practitioners to start a booster shot. I wouldn't dare ask them that. They really don't want to, because they're too busy for that. I am already very happy that the general practitioners want to help give the first and second shot to the people who haven't had it yet, but the booster shot is really mass work, you might say. In a single institution, general practitioners help in a great way, and I am very grateful to them for this, too, but I really cannot burden them with the booster campaign. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u616	Finally, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u617	Oh, was it five in total? Oh, okay, I got that right. A GP told me that he's just trying to convince the people he can't reach to vaccinate. If we want to boost the vaccination rate in this country, I think we can learn more from other countries. They make it easier instead of more complicated for those who have a greater distance from government and care. They move closer into their world of experience and dare to engage more easily and directly the person they do trust. Often that's the GP. I think we should think more out of the box during this period and take on board the examples of other countries that have worked well, including Norway. I call that stubborn, because I also want the vaccination rate to go up. I think it's medical, it's scientific, it's good international. Why, then, do we have to do things differently here and, above all, not apply it to a tailor-made basis? I'm getting a little messy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u618	We shouldn't have that, so I'm gonna try to fix it anyway. First of all, I think there should be no misunderstanding that I also think that general practitioners can do a great job and also do it to further increase the vaccination rate. They do. If we are allowed to use general practitioners who are already up to their ears in the work, I think that is fantastic. I have seen many very nice examples of general practitioners who are actually helping to raise the vaccination rate. But this is about the booster. Where the flu shot is indeed put by the GP, the booster is not put by the GP. Could you have the GP do that, too? I honestly don't think so. Does a booster help to increase the vaccination rate? No, because a booster isn't the first and second shot, it's the third shot. In short, the booster should just be done by the GGD and if general practitioners want to help increase the vaccination rate, then I am very grateful to them. Luckily, a lot of general practitioners want that, too. The booster is really a bit of mass work, you might say. By the way, it's not that hard to reach people for the booster either. It's just about the people who were willing to take that first and second shot. You want to use the GP where the GP is really needed to gain trust from people for a vaccine. The first shots, that's where the GPs help. So I think we are more in agreement, because the first shots are very helpful to the general practitioners. Then there are a number of questions that affect the staff and thus also the capacity. GroenLinks asks what we are actually doing to get the people who left care back. We do a lot for that. We have many initiatives for this, including extra hands for care, with 6,300 people who have wanted to help. People have been trained through the National Care Class. More than 1,700 of these are now undergoing recognized training. With the coronaway grant scheme, more than 7,200 people received grants to provide support jobs. In addition, that is perhaps the most important thing: we are, of course, building the National Care Reserve to bind people who have worked in the care sector and would like to help them there again in a crisis. That is really a functionality that we think of in the future: as Defence has its reserveists, we want to take care of that too. Then the flexible shell of pensioners. A question from Mrs De Vries is whether work is being done to ensure that these people are recruited and are also ready to help. The answer is yes. Of the people who we managed to seduce through the Extra Hands initiative for care to get back to work in health care, there have been a lot of them, I believe in a total of 6,300 people have actually got back to work in health care. Part of it said: I did that for a while, but that was it. A part of me said, "Well, they can call me again if there's anything real." Those people form the basic database of the National Care Reserve as we are setting up now. That's 600 right now. It's supposed to be at least 2,000. This is one of the issues in the pandemic preparedness agenda, as I explained in reply to your questions in the budget debate. Then the ic nurses and the manifesto for less administrative burden. I have not yet seen that manifesto, so I cannot yet respond to its content. Of course, we're doing a lot of work on that. This must be done along the lines that we are always very critical of our own choices leading to administrative burdens. We have just had a very wide-ranging debate on this in the budget. So we have to be tough on ourselves. That's one. When we ask for accountability, we know that someone who could also have cared must and must sit behind the computer. Two is that we really have to look with all those sectors, with all the care to ask what they run into most: make a top ten; then we will see if we can get rid of it. The third is that this should actually be done in every institution. Just to table, make a top ten of what you run into the most and wonder, "Why do we have that rule anyway? Can't we get rid of it? What happens if we just stop this administration?" That way of working helps a lot. I also think that we have achieved too little on this point in the past cabinet period in a way that is truly workable and tangible for the people in the care. So I also think that we should move forward with this in a future cabinet period, whoever it is. Then the question of the PvdA was: why is there no messenger for care yet? I'm not sure it should be an emissary. On the contrary, we have a lot of initiatives to take care of the table to see what we could do to make the work more enjoyable in the care sector and to further improve the employership, so that we also know how to hold people. I am open to any additional initiative, but in the course of the budget debate an amendment has been tabled and adopted by, among other things, GroenLinks and a number of other parties. So we asked our chief nursing officer to monitor how control actually gets care and attention. And we are taking many more initiatives to make working in care happen in a pleasant way. Again, I am open to any additional initiative, but I think we are already doing a lot. Then the VVD. Mrs De Vries asks what actually happened to make it easier to train qualified nurses to become ic nurses. In 2018, NFU and NVZ started with a grant from VWS with the program CZO Flex Level. This programme builds up further training courses for nurses, such as ic nurse training, from modules. As a result, training can be more tailored, healthcare professionals can go through these courses at their own pace and training is reduced by EVC pathways. In addition, the basic Acute Care (BAZ) training was launched in 2020. In that training are the basic modules from the acute cluster. That training lasts six months. There is no limit to the number of training places. However, we are seeing something that slows down the speed with which this training is actually being filled. Anyway, nurses are all desperately needed in the place where they are. In doing so, they give themselves, they take little time for training. Two. They are all very practical-oriented training courses. Those people all need to be escorted. Well, if people don't have time for anything in a crisis, it's to mentor trainees. That is why we have also said that this internship should be designed in a different way, more group-by-group. The guidance should also be provided by someone other than the ic nurse, who is actually very much needed at the bed. Here too, we will have to go to innovative forms of internship guidance to make sure that it is not a showstopper in training new people. Those are the questions about the staff in the care. Then there are a number of questions about care capacity. What can we do, Mrs De Vries, to ensure that care is not delayed too much? She is surprised that hospitals do not refer to independent treatment clinics that still have room for catching up care. Of course, there is always a certain competition between hospitals and ZBCs, but now the need is so high that anyone who can refer to a ZBc does, is my picture. If you as a patient are worried about that and you wonder if your hospital is referring you to a ZB that actually has space, then you can of course ask the health insurance provider. The health insurance company really has the task of providing care mediation if necessary. The NZa monitors whether there is enough room for covid care and whether the care is sufficiently fair across the country. So that's also about the placement of care if that's possible. Will the minister see to fair patient distribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u619	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u620	I have a very brief question about this. I take it the finances aren't an obstacle to that story?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u621	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u622	'Cause I get that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u623	To be honest, that's not my image, but I can add that to the monitoring of the NZa. I'll ask if there's any sign of that. I can imagine a hospital saying, if I send too many patients to a neighborhood ZBC before knee surgery, they'll keep doing that, and I'll be out of this business when the crisis is over. That sentiment plays, of course. That may not be nice and healthy, but it is understandable. That's one thing. Macro doesn't matter, of course. For a health care provider, it doesn't matter where you pay for a treatment. De facto doesn't matter. If, in this way, space can be created within hospitals so that they can be scaled down further so that ic care and covid care can be scaled up, then of course we should simply use that possibility. Will the minister see to fair patient distribution? Yeah, the regulators do that on behalf of the minister. That was a little rough last week. At that time things were going wrong, especially in Limburg. That was for two reasons. Due to the rapid scaling-up, not everyone could have offered their fair share to the LCPS. That's the first reason. The second reason is that the outflow to the care of the elderly, to the vvt-, the elv- and the grz-spots, could not have taken place in Limburg. Of course, it hasn't calmed down since then, but my image is that people are doing much more about actual distribution. Everyone is doing their utmost to offer their fair share. I know the supervisors are on top of that. I hear from the regulators that the hospitals are doing very well and that every region really delivers. Mrs Westerveld says that care in neighbouring countries with a lower vaccination rate and a higher number of infections seems to be able to cope, because the care buffer is larger. Does the Cabinet see that, too? There are, of course, differences between countries, in care capacity and even in the design of the system. This can sometimes give you an advantage in crisis time when it comes to this type of care, ic-like care. Germany, for example, has many beds. By the way, we can see that at the moment many more beds are occupied than in the Netherlands. There the pressure on care is even greater in numbers. A lot of people have left care, much more than in the Netherlands. I think Germany now has quite some concerns about its capacity. Belgium also has a relatively higher ic-capacity, but also there they are certainly not without worries, because it is much faster there than in the Netherlands. The Scandinavian countries have a similar supply of care to the Netherlands. There are indeed differences. Moreover, scaling up healthcare capacity is never a strategy to combat the crisis, but you do not think so either. You may be able to take measures at most a week later, but exponential growth will always make you out of your care capacity within no time. Mr President, those were the questions about capacity. I'm going to turn to a number of questions that weren't so easy to classify. First of all, the innovative treatments. Mr Paternotte and Mrs De Vries had a question about this. If I give the short version and agree that I will give a slightly longer version in the next letter, you may also be satisfied. The European Commission has several procurement routes, with antivirals being purchased at European level. We have already bought two treatments that are used in the hospital through joint procurement procedures: the antibody treatment of Roche and the medicine remdesivir of Gilead. Those two resources are already being used. Those two treatments have already been bought into Europe. There are two other means, which are not used in the hospital but are used at the front, when people are going through the first days of the infection. This is the medicine molnupiravir of MSD and Pfizer. For these two medicines we have already claimed the Dutch part in the European procurement procedure. So that's what's provided for. The point is, of course, that they still have to be approved by the EEA for efficacy and safety. I really want to do that, so I'm not going past that. I really think the EEA should take a good look at that. In the meantime, we are talking to the profession about how you would like to shape the treatment. We'll check with them what numbers they think they need. The complexity of the medications in the early stages is what Mrs Gündoğan says about it, namely: let's not pretend it's the silver bullet. She said it differently, by the way. It is not the solution from the crisis, but it could contribute to a solution for some of the patients you may be expecting. The choice you give it to is mostly complicated. How do you know that infection at that very early stage is going to be so intense that it can actually prevent a serious infection or even hospitalization? That is, of course, a matter of selection at the gate. I think the first line, so the GP, will have to do that selection. How do you avoid anyone who hasn't been vaccinated at the first cough on the sidewalk standing at the GP's office wanting that pill? At least what everyone does best is to take that vaccine anyway. After all, that works better against severe infection and you are then on time and not too late. It is also very much cheaper. I believe that treatment costs €700, while a vaccine costs a lot less. In short, it's actually better in every way, if you still have to make the choice, to have you vaccinated anyway. That's actually better in every way. Meanwhile, we're just buying the drugs that could be working. Then the GGD test capacity. Mr Paternotte made comments on this. I saw today's messages. We're close to maximum capacity, but we're not at maximum capacity yet. It was used for about 85%. Yesterday, over 91,000 tests were conducted. That is truly impressive. The last week of October, three weeks ago, it was 35,000. We're a lot higher by now. Yesterday's capacity was 107,000, so where the decrease was 91,000, the capacity was 107,000. The GGD continues to scale up to 120,000. But it's squeaking and cracking. You'll really notice that in the region. If you really want to test close, it's really tight. Fortunately, we still manage to stay within the 48-hour deadline. On average, it was 38 hours last week. Anyway, that's longer than the week before. In short, there is once a limit to that. They are now scaling up from all power to a capacity of 120,000 tests per day. The call centres are and are also very extensive. There is also a limit to that once; you have to be honest about that. We'll do everything we can to test on time. Why isn't it used to do this on every corner of the street? In the neighbourhood approach, in those 30 municipalities, we try to be even more low-threshold than we already are. With very large crowds, it is more and more difficult to organise this very low-threshold, namely the appointment-free entry. What we must do is to make the testing itself as accessible as possible, also using self-tests, which we make available as easily as possible. We do so through the Poverty Fund and the Food Bank. We are also talking to municipalities to see if we can make it more accessible through municipalities. In addition, we try to do so in education. This brings me to the questions about education and the provision of tests. At least, what can we do to reduce the infections together in education? These are really the basic measures, as we have them in MBO and higher education. This must be monitored carefully. In secondary education there are also opportunities to use self-tests, which we offer and make available very comprehensively, of course. I am now working with the Minister of OCW to see if we take that from the set of self-tests, which we have done before for the big holiday, to repeat during the Christmas holidays. This way you can again bring the self-test to the attention, also through the schools. For example, we always try to contribute to the compliance of the basic measures. What is very important in education is: stay at home if you have complaints. At one school, it's better than at the other. The point, of course, is also that part of the spread is asymptomatic. So even staying home when you have complaints doesn't help to stop the spread at school. Should you take stricter measures for schools? We are very hesitant about this, because in the last year and a half we have learned that this can cause enormous collateral damage to the education itself. This is not what you are proposing, so it will undoubtedly help to reduce the level of infection, but also to reduce learning performance. And then in the end, it's also a social choice you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u624	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u625	Distance learning is the last thing I propose, but rather, of course, other measures have been taken, such as working with cohorts and making sure that there are fewer movements in the building, so that pupils simply encounter fewer people and have fewer contacts. You can also make sure that groups don't get mixed up. mouth caps have also been used in the vo. In other words, there are more measures you can take without closing down schools or letting the education go through. Nothing has yet been said about that. You can see that wave of infections all over the country now. If it leads to closures, you have of course achieved that children are all at home. Can't we do something about that after all? I would like to give that question and also ask the OMT to take a look at it on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u626	I don't know if that's gonna work on Friday, but I think it's a good and right question. I also share with Mr Paternotte that online is indeed the very last. I think we all share that here. But you rightly say that if there are very large outbreaks at a school, the automatic consequence is that you are online for a few weeks. Of course you don't want to. That's what you want to get ahead of. So what could we do with stepping up basic measures that we have already used once and which cannot be very detrimental to ordinary school? Couldn't you be on top of it more firmly and what else is possible? I would like to take that question with me to the Minister of Education and also to the OMT, to see if we can properly align our opinions on that. Then staying at home with vaccinated roommates. Mrs Agema referred to her own question, which was the subject of the OMT opinion. I made that question part of the OMT advice. The OMT advice has been that close contacts, being roommates, will also have to be quarantined in case of home contamination. In this way, the quarantine advice has actually been modified in line with Mrs Agema's suggestion. Can we quickly offer the bill of public places to the Chamber? I explained in the last letter, i.e. the progress letter of 12/11, that we are currently of the opinion that there are sufficient opportunities for municipalities to take enforcement action. According to the Wpg, the mayor can give directions and orders to the manager of a public place. The mayor may also act under Articles 174 and 175 of the Municipal Act. And by means of an administrative burden, the location can be temporarily closed on penalty of a fine. So there really are opportunities for the mayor to maintain. We have actually considered ourselves that a new bill is not necessarily necessary to allow the mayor to do his job. Why does the CTB of infected people remain valid? Shouldn't it be technically possible to temporarily withdraw it? Well, no, we didn't want to make that technically possible. If we did, we would seriously undermine the privacy aspects of the corona tickets. It would assume that you have a central database of the QR codes that you have issued to the people involved, and then automatically link a positive test result to that QR code. And that assumes that you really have to work with central databases, which isn't very privacy-proof. But besides, it's not really a solution either, because people just can't get tested if they've already had a QR-code before. So it's pretty easy to press your moustache when it comes to that. It would also give us a false certainty that would not help us any further. Mr. Chairman. I think, to be honest, that I have answered the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u627	I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term input. We're moving on to the second term. Then I shall begin by giving the floor... Ah, that's true! I had agreed with Mrs Pouw-Verweij... Do you mind if Mrs Pouw-Verweij goes first? Anyone who dares to say no has a problem. I'm just gonna say that. Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u628	I think that's very sweet, Mr. Chairman. The timing of this kind of debate and its long duration are somewhat more important to me, I see. I am therefore grateful for the understanding from the Chamber. I only have one motion, so I'll make it quick. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is uncertainty as to when and how the cabinet steers which factors during the corona epidemic;]] [[Whereas the understanding of the purpose and functioning of measures requires clarification;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to send an overview to the Chamber for the Kerstreces indicating during which period the Cabinet sent to which factors as the main objective of the measures, which factors were contextual, how these factors were monitored and what the justification for this choice was,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1522]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u629	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u630	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u631	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the answers given by the various directors. Thank you also for undertaking an overview of the enforcement actions and measures that exist. My clock isn't working, Mr. Chairman. I have a bit of an unintended feeling about this, because I don't really have a grip on this yet, I have to say honestly. I hope that the overview can provide that. I hope that the various legislative proposals also contain an explicit paragraph on enforcement. That actually brings me to the next idea. This morning it was said that Mr Grapperhaus, JenV's minister, excuse, was going to talk to the catering industry, also about the run-off after 8 p.m. Perhaps a short feedback can be given. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that 2G is not just an epidemiological assessment, because I think it also requires a great deal if we also have people who have already been vaccinated tested. Thank you also for the commitment that a solution will be found for the group that cannot be vaccinated. And then briefly... I don't know how much time I have left, Mr. Chairman. How much time? The clock isn't running.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u632	Still don't? 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u633	Well, then maybe I'll come back to the lifeline research a little while longer. I'm a little surprised the Minister doesn't recognize this. It's not just any group, either. These are people who participate in an investigation for a long time, I think in the North of the Netherlands. I'd be happy to have that looked at. At the boosters, I'm hoping for acceleration. It looks specifically at boosters on Saba and Saint-Eustatius at once. Then I always come back to my Wadden Islands. It would also make sense for them to do this together again. Last Friday I went to work at the Zuyderland hospital in Limburg. You can see people being relocated from there to Groningen, Leeuwarden and Assen. That's quite a tax on the family. There are also reasonable agreements with Germany, of course. I was wondering if in some cases that is not just closer and more pleasant for the family. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u634	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u635	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We always think it is very important that we look at what is happening in the world and learn from other countries. I referred earlier to the boosters and why we believe that more pace will be needed. Because we see exactly how that went in Israel and how it worked out there. I say this also with regard to the Minister's movement to find a solution for those people who cannot be vaccinated on doctor's advice. That's a very nice signal. It's very nice to have that window there. I notice that many reactions are already coming from people who say that they like that perspective. Do we learn from the way other countries do things like this? For they will face the same dilemmas in that regard. Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the primary schools are being looked at. Without saying that you want to close them, I absolutely don't want to be there anymore to prevent us from seeing week after week that most infections occur in age groups 0 to 9 years. I have one motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that next Wednesday, the European Medicines Agency will decide on the authorisation of a small-dose corona vaccine for children between 5 and 11 years of age;]] [[noting that, in parallel with the EEA, the Health Council is working on an opinion on the target groups for which this vaccine may be recommended;]] [[Whereas Germany intends to make the vaccine immediately available for vaccination of children as parents after authorisation by the EEA;]] [[Whereas doctors and parents of (especially) vulnerable children in the Netherlands would like to have the vaccination option as soon as possible as soon as the EEA has approved it;]] [[considers that vaccination under 12 years should not play any role in the granting of corona tickets;]] [[calls on the Government to give parents free choice, in consultation with doctors, to have children aged 5 to 11 vaccinated, provided that the advice of the Health Council does not prevent this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1523]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u636	I have three motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that corona mainly spreads through the inhalation of each other's breath (aerogenic transmission) and that closed inner spaces strengthen it;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the concept of "breath circle" in addition to ventilation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is no rule in our country when it comes to corona, reducing ic capacity, achieving 0% volume growth next year in hospitals, no money for catching up care, starting booster vaccines for 60-plussers not yet ordered molnupiravir in January, unable to handle the number of test requests and increasing the number of hospitalisations among older people;]] [[Considers that the VWS Minister's fixation on the corona tickets and 2G is mainly concerned with teenagers and young people and therefore does not govern for the benefit of the elderly with breakthrough infections;]] [[calls on the Government to ask Mr Marcel Levi to become a Minister of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of hospitalisations by corona among 60-plussers is increasing explosively;]] [[calls on the government to start the booster vaccination of 60-plussers who so wish and not to wait until January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1524]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1525]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1526]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u637	Mr. Chairman. The Minister made a comment about the table I used. I would like to remind him once again of page 15 of Van Dissel's presentation. We are seeing a very large rise here with breakthrough infections of 60-plussers. This table I'm showing is based on the same NICE data and therefore even more recent than Van Dissel's. You can see the last piece coming up really big. Mr Bleijenberg also sent me this table. It's on the minister's own coronadashboard. There we also see the huge rise among older groups. That's my heart cry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u638	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First thanks to the Minister for the answers and thanks for something happening for people who really cannot be vaccinated. We are very happy about that. Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Minister will be able to make a commitment to the nurses who wrote the manifesto. Can he come back to that in another letter? He says: we also think it's something for a next cabinet. But here's the thing: they're proposing to do something about that administration now. That would also bring more hands to the bed. Finally, Mr President. I asked Mr Van Dissel in the spring: what would happen if everyone complied with the basic rules 100%? Then he said: that would lead to spectacular results. I asked him yesterday in the technical briefing if he could report that again. He says the virus is now more contagious. But at least he's gonna look into it. During the debate I received the following example, which I would like to share. It's just a situation from last week. It's from someone from my CDA constituency in town x. I'm gonna let it stop there for a while. Someone's reporting for an activity due to a contagion with corona. The next day, this person is spotted in a grocery store. Whoever notices, thinks, "What am I supposed to do?" and reports the situation to the manager. "There's someone with corona at the supermarket." This one calls for whoever has corona to leave the store immediately. The result is that five people leave the grocery store deliriously. This is an example that can determine behaviour, just as it illustrates the importance of the measures. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u640	Thank you. He might have been able to talk to the person right away, I'm thinking. Then I'll go to Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u641	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of infections is very high;]] [[Whereas care is already overloaded and regular care is increasingly being scaled down;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a package of well-founded measures that really contain the virus and on top of that the existing measures, such as, for example, quarantine, stay at home in case of complaints, work at home, wash hands and ventilate, better publicise and communicate more clearly, and report to the Chamber within a week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1527]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u642	The second motion concerns the support packages. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas companies and self-employed persons suffer losses as a result of the corona measures;]] [[noting that the new support package does not provide financial support for the payment of wages and that there is no regulation specific tozzp'ers;]] [[calls on the Government to supplement the support package with support for paying wages and a scheme for non-partner-testedzzp's,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hijink and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1528]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u643	Mr. Chairman. Are the proposed measures, as they stand today, sufficient to reverse the infections, reduce the number of hospitalisations and, above all, ensure that we do not end up in an even deeper healthcare attack? We'll see. I'm not sure yet. That is, of course, the discussion. I also found the learning ability mwah. But I'm just gonna file a motion, because if I say a, I'm gonna say b. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a record number of people are infected daily with the corona virus, more people are admitted daily to hospital and intensive care;]] [[Whereas the peak is not yet in sight and the maximum capacity of care is likely to be exceeded;]] [[Whereas the cabinet has decided on less decisive measures than those recommended by the OMT;]] [[whereas last year the Cabinet failed to act sufficiently quickly and decisively;]] [[Whereas it is possible to reduce the virus more rapidly by more rapid and effective intervention, by taking measures to contain and maintain the number of infections, including the closure of non-essential sectors and the catering industry;]] [[calls on the Government to further prepare a generous support package up to 100%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1529]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u644	Sorry, I'm tired before I get all the comments from home again, so excuse me. Yeah, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u645	It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u646	I'm moving on. Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u647	There is a question about this motion by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u648	One question, though. The Labour Party has often criticized the cabinet when the cabinet did not stick to the OMT's line. Now OMTs say that the package delivered by the cabinet is similar to the opinion, although of course it is not exactly the same. You actually want it much stricter with the closure of the catering and non-essential shops. What is the reason why this time the Labour Party says: you really have to go far beyond what the OMT recommends?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u649	A few reasons. First, because RIVM clearly indicates that it is heading for a reproduction number of around 1. I note that this is not enough to actually combat the health attack. Secondly, because they have actually put measures against each other, but for example they have chosen very strongly to close the catering industry not at 6 p.m. but at 8 p.m. and to bring this up again for shops. I don't know if that's a proportionate exchange. I'm just genuinely worried. Based on the data and experience from the past, I think it is too little and too limited to prevent us from wagging through the winter. On the contrary, I believe in faster, harder and more decisive now than in continuing until February with each extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u650	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u651	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coronaper conferences took place earlier before the Lower House was informed and the Chamber was able to hold a debate on them;]] [[Whereas half-truths and sending messages on corona policy appear earlier in the media consistently and consistently before the House of Representatives has been fully informed;]] [[Whereas the Government has a constitutional duty to inform the States General and the Government has expressed its intention to pursue a new administrative culture;]] [[considers that the above approach frustrates the social debate on very fundamental issues;]] [[calls on the government first to inform the Chamber, then to hold the debate and then to hold a coronaper conference so that the debate and decision-making take place in the House of Democracy, unless there is an acute emergency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that due to the peak of patients with covid, additional hands are urgently needed in community care, nursing homes and hospitals;]] [[noting that thousands of qualified people have left care and are employed elsewhere;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[engage with employers outside of care to temporarily lend qualified care providers;]] [[examine how qualified healthcare professionals who wish to return to care (temporarily) can be positively encouraged;]] [[communicate properly that re-registration is not taking place at this stage of the corona pandemic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Simons, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van Esch, Mr Agema, Mr Stoffer and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1530]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Westerveld, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1531]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u652	Then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that at the turn of the year of 2020-2021 the temporary ban on fireworks resulted in 70% fewer fireworks victims, a quarter fewer arrests and fewer firefighters compared to the previous year;]] [[noting that care, police and other emergency services are still heavily burdened as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[Notes that it is desirable that the Cabinet should urgently resume a temporary ban on the sale and ignition of consumer fireworks before the turn of the year of 2021-2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1532]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u653	And thank you all for being on my birthday so late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u654	Look. A very special birthday, I think. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u655	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to the Cabinet, we cannot predict the end of the far-reaching measures when the pandemic is going this erratic way. As far as my group is concerned, we can take into account the different scenarios outlined by the Academy and the WRR. Let us ask ourselves in all five scenarios what measures we consider fair and proportionate to combat the virus. As far as we are concerned, you can then come to very different considerations and take into account the short-term virus control if you have that long-term good. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the report of the WRR and the KNAW "Navigating and anticipating in uncertain times," which outlines five scenarios for the development of the COOVID-19 pandemic;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[Whereas the lack of a long-term strategy, taking into account different scenarios for the future, prevents the government from weighing up policies;]] [[calls on the Government to share with the Chamber as soon as possible a long-term strategy taking into account the five future scenarios and the associated short- and long-term policy options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1533]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u656	I have a few brief words, of course, on the motion tabled by my colleague, Mr Westerveld, on a temporary ban on fireworks for the coming year. As far as we are concerned, this is extremely necessary, but we also see that a huge investment in care is very necessary. In order to restore the bald blow of recent years a little bit, we have to do a lot to improve it. That ban on fireworks is not going to solve that, but we do think it is really necessary for this year to relieve the burden of care and the enforcers. We hope, of course, that this will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u657	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u658	Thank you, Mr President. In these spicy times you prefer to get rid of the sick as soon as possible, just for all the employees in the care, who work so hard. That's what we want most. At the same time, for the measures we are now proposing, we must really consider what is wise in the long term. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of COVID-19 infections is increasing significantly and that the cabinet is preparing new legislative proposals;]] [[Whereas, as a society, we will have to learn to live longer with corona, where new legislation is appropriate in a long-term strategy and policy;]] [[Whereas the OMT identifies various measures to this end, including testing for access for all, as an alternative to the 2G choice made by the Cabinet;]] [[Whereas a broad and long-term test strategy (also called 1G policy) which can be scaled up with the level of risk at national or regional level gives a better picture of the number of infections;]] [[calls on the Government to develop 1G in different modalities (PCR or antigen) and to present it in the forthcoming legislative proposals on the extension of the CTB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Westerveld, Mr Chicken and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1534]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u659	I would like to stress that, of course, we see this most as an alternative to the 2G legislative proposal made by the cabinet. But I also think it's really important that when we think about the future and how we get through this together, that's going to be a lot of difficult choices from all of us, and we're going to try to do that together. That is why I have attached great importance to this debate and to the times when we managed to do so as a Chamber. I think that's something we should hold together for the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u660	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u661	Thank you, Madam President. Until not so long ago, the cabinet has repeatedly promised that there would never be anything like a vaccination obligation, that there would be no vaccination passports, that vaccination would always be voluntary, that there would never be any benefits for vaccinees. Now, on 15 March this year, the Group Chairman of the Forum for Democracy, Mr Thierry Baudet, said in an interview: "I note that if we do not win the elections, everyone will receive a digital vaccination passport. That's going to mean you can't participate in a lot of social things if you don't get vaccinated." As usual, he was directly accused of spreading conspiracy theories and disinformation. This fits into a pattern we've seen since the start of this coronas scandal. The cabinet distributes disinformation and demonstrable lies. The Forum for Democracy expresses well-founded concerns from this time and time again. That is why I am now addressing the Members of Parliament who are actually sitting here with the best of intentions, who do not see what is really behind this policy and who still assume that this has something to do with public health. Please turn off your blinders. Try thinking more than one step forward. Don't put other opinions away easily as disinformation not to go into it. Please prevent the Forum for Democracy from becoming right in the near future in all the other well-founded expectations and concerns that we express. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u662	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u663	Yeah, at this point. In fact, we are now told as colleagues: you then accused us of conspiracy theories. That's not true at all. More than a year ago, several parties were already working on test certificates, for example, and this was already being prepared. In fact, we argued for that in a note a year ago. In any case, we never said, but I think several colleagues, six months ago, that conspiracy theories were being spread on this subject, because there were long-standing preparations in several countries for tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u664	Well, I spoke explicitly about an interview in which Mr Baudet was literally accused by the relevant NPO journalist of spreading conspiracy theories. But of course it is very easy for Mrs Westerveld to pretend that Members of Parliament do not accuse us of spreading conspiracy theories. This is done on the assembly line. We see it time and time again, also at this point. The call I have just made is therefore certainly addressed to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u665	Forum for Democracy sometimes spreads conspiracy theories. That's what I said. But not at this point. Here is a very specific point about a test certificate, which has been in preparation for a long time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u666	It's a vaccination certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u667	On this point, the Forum for Democracy is simply not right. Let's just have debates on the facts for a moment. I would therefore like to object to this being blamed on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u668	You did. Mr Paternotte, and then we close this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u669	"We're going into a course of eternal cycles: outbreak of a new variant, lockdown, new vaccinations. Eventually returning to the old normal is not the goal, but entering the new normal, in which first through vaccinations, lockdown, social distancing and then via an app on your phone, an eyescanner in your car, payment via fingerprints and eventually via a microchip in your body takes control over life." Mr Baudet said that is what is happening at the moment. According to Mr Van Meijeren, is that what is happening at the moment, that we will all have a microchip in our bodies with which the government controls our lives? And doesn't he think that's a conspiracy theory?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u670	Well, that's great, because I read a very interesting article on the website of the World Economic Forum about what they call "the internet of bodies," as a successor to the internet of things. It describes that sensors may be placed in the human body that may be necessary to determine on time whether there is a corona infection. So yes, I am very concerned about the points that Mr Paternotte has just mentioned. I look forward to the debate over some time, in which, unfortunately, we also have to note that we were closer to the truth than the disinformation spreader, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u671	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. Then we go to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u672	Okay, I'll try to be brief. I'm repeating myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this pandemic requires a minimum of medium-term planning with different scenarios;]] [[having noted that several countries have planned up to a minimum of Q2 of 2022 with different scenarios;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt this example and at least until Q2 2022 itself to present a plan with different scenarios to the Chamber by the end of November,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that controlling infections is a much better strategy to prevent medical, social and economic damage, and one that is consistent with advice from, inter alia, the WHO;]] [[calls on the Government to send a maximum contamination rate of 4,000 infections per day from now on, to work with a stoplight system and to communicate clearly and transparently,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Esch and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1535]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Den Haan and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1536]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u673	Then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are approximately 200,000 deferred operations according to the NZa;]] [[noting that this pandemic is not gone for the time being;]] [[calls on the government to make an ambitious plan to make up for delayed care as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Westerveld, Mr Simons, Mr Den Haan and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1537]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u674	I've got 25 seconds. I want to use it briefly, if that's okay, for the amount of shit I get in my inbox. I'm sorry for the use of words. It comes from the supporters of, among other things, DENK. By now, it's gonna be in the inbox with my mom. It's also from the FVD's constituency. Thank you all. None of that's gonna stop me from saying what I'm saying is that corona needs to be treated seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u675	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. Of course, it's very annoying when you get such annoying e-mails. Sometimes that's because of all the nasty movies we make of each other. They also lead to annoying reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u676	Very briefly. The Forum for Democracy was addressed. I am extremely proud of our people, that they are doing everything they can to convince Mrs Gündoğan to stop the absurd policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u677	Maybe something else. Suppose we have emails going from our constituents towards Mrs Gündoğan who appear threatening, then I say apology for this. I'm calling these people not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u678	Look, I think that's very nice of you. Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. It's a call anyway. Sharing arguments in the debate is fine, but being framed by videos doesn't do the Chamber any good. So I also call on you to do so where you can influence. Mr. Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u679	Mr. Chairman. I had prepared two motions, but I do not submit them either, because the Prime Minister has made an excellent commitment to the local Catshuis scheme. The Minister for Health has also made an excellent commitment: if there is 2G, which I am obviously not in favour of, there will be an exception for those who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. Mrs Pouw-Verweij and I had made such a motion, but we tore it apart. Mr. Chairman. I have two other points to make. In December there will be a more complete response to the length and duration of the 2G measure. I look forward to it. I told you before, we're not for it. We are particularly critical of the proportionality of such a measure. We'll look into that, too. Is this proportionality still good in proportion, given the length attached to it? Maybe it'll take longer. I am thinking in particular of the curfew, which would take a short time, but was extended. We have never really received an answer to that, of course, as far as we are concerned, there has been longer than we should. The shops were also longer closed at the time. Nevertheless, we look forward to seeing what is coming to us. We will be critical of that again. Mr. Chairman. One more compliment to Minister De Jonge. I really liked the fact that tonight was really an explicit reference to the longer term. A tip that I would like to give to the cabinet: take it with you to the upcoming press conferences. I think that gives a lot of clarity and perspective to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u680	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u681	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity, in particular, to say to Mrs Gündoğan: however much we disagree on this subject, how much opinions really stand against each other, I think we should always have the debate on the basis of respect. So I repeat the words I just said in the direction of Mrs Gündoğan: it must never be so. If that's the case, I apologize for that. I'm really calling all these people not to do that, because I know how that feels myself. I have been able to see that at regular intervals. Mr President, two motions from my hand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that in the Netherlands there will never and never be a lockdown, as in Austria, for Dutch people who have not been vaccinated for any reason,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that last week the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport threatened the Netherlands with more "lockdown-like measures" if the 2G measure was not implemented;]] [[points out that the marketing of lockdown-like measures against the 2G measure is a false contradiction;]] [[rejects the threat of the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Meijeren, Mr Agema and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1538]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Agema and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1539]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u682	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u683	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about communication. We have also seen again tonight how important communication is. The outgoing Prime Minister mentioned that the best communication specialists for all of us are at work. There is indeed an impressive palette of instruments, but we are also up to our ears in corona itself, almost day and night. I've always learned that as long as the receiver doesn't understand it, we're not doing quite well somewhere yet. I even got e-mails tonight from people who said they really didn't think they had to stay home with complaints because they were vaccinated. I just wanted to say that. I am very pleased with the promise that when 2G arrives, there will be a solution for those who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. Minister De Jonge indicated that there was a pilot where people could report. But communication is also important, I think, because I get a lot of messages from people who are very worried. I would therefore like to draw some attention to that. I have also heard the Minister's answer to my question about the CoronaCheck app, namely to deal with it when people are infected. I have other information about the technique and the privacy, but I'm still filing the motion. In the meantime, I'm going to go ahead and give you some more information. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people who have been vaccinated and tested positive for corona still have access to facilities and activities requiring a corona pass;]] [[Whereas people who have tested positive for corona simply go outside and can thereby infect others, whereas they actually have to be in isolation;]] [[calls on the government to adapt the CoronaCheck app technique so that people who have been vaccinated and yet get corona do not get green ticks in their CoronaCheck app during the period of isolation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1540]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u685	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u686	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u687	Thank you. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the approach to the covid pandemic to date has not been successful;]] [[noting that there is a great deal of pressure on the shoulder of the OMT;]] [[noting that the composition of the core members of the OMT had not changed;]] [[noting that several OMT members are associated with companies that make money from vaccines or testing;]] [[Whereas coldcase teams are deployed to the police to look at cases with a different view, without tunnel vision;]] [[calls on the cabinet to thank the current OMT for its services so far, and to set up a covid-coldcase team, with medical and psychological experts, who review the corona policy and come up with an effective policy as soon as possible, which takes the Netherlands out of the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that contact professions such as a hairdresser, a solarium studio, a beautician or a pedicure must close at 6 p.m. while the catering industry must close at 8 p.m.;]] [[noting that these entrepreneurs depend on closing times for their income;]] [[Whereas the covid virus is unable to tell the clock;]] [[Whereas contact professions work one-on-one;]] [[Whereas contact professions have invested heavily in hygiene measures such as splash screens, disinfection, working at a sufficient distance, gloves, customer spread, etc.;]] [[Whereas the Minister is not in a position to make clear how many infections these measures are going to cause;]] [[calls on the Minister to extend the closing time for contact appeals to 8 p.m. so that citizens can still use these services after their work and earn their living for entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1541]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1542]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u688	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to announce that I will not wait for the appreciation after the motion has been tabled. It was a long day again, tomorrow is another long day and especially for single groups like mine, counts every minute sleep. I think I can already predict the appreciation by submitting this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet agreed that the policy strategy on corona had opted for the "controlling" of the virus;]] [[noting that "checking out" means that the virus should be able to spread for as long as the ic capacity allows, with group immunity as therefore;]] [[noting that the aim of the policy strategy is not to contain as much as possible and prevent contamination;]] [[whereas the KPMG report notes that in the Netherlands some 30,000 people died from COVID-19 on the basis of CBS's excess mortality data, and that this is significantly more than in similar countries, such as Denmark, Finland and Norway;]] [[whereas the KPMG report also confirms that the difference in performance is largely due to the chosen Dutch policy, with the precautionary principle not being applied time and time again, and the cabinet has also had too little regard for the health effects of long covid;]] [[noting that this strategy has caused enormous physical, financial and mental damage to the economy, working people, people at risk, young people and many others;]] [[noting that this strategy has prevented the cabinet from controlling the virus;]] [[denounces the corona strategy of the virus and calls on the government to break this strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1543]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u689	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Minister Hugo de Jonge said at the previous press conference to find the envisaged 2G approach "an inevitable choice";]] [[considers that this measure is not only discriminatory but also further enhances mistrust and polarisation in society;]] [[calls on the Government never to introduce the 2G regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that swimming lessons are an essential part of the development of a child;]] [[calls on the cabinet to make swimming lessons equal to normal education and therefore exempt from the corona admission certificate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hard corona measures are being taken;]] [[believes that the cabinet should take responsibility for the financial suffering it causes;]] [[calls on the cabinet to come forward with a compensation plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet "full hospitals" repeatedly dedicates to corona;]] [[believes that the cabinet is systematically digging away for the appointment and resolution of the real crisis, namely the one in the care sector;]] [[calls on the government primarily to resolve the care crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1544]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1545]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuzu, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1546]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuzu, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1547]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u690	Mr. Chairman. In the parliamentary survey on corona one will not look back on this kind of weeks in the House of Representatives, with hard intervention. You do not all have to agree with the government, but it is not really desirable that we should talk to some ministers 20 to 25 hours a week about the corona policy. Mr. Chairman. Group immunity is not available. I'm waiting for the OMT advice to know what this means. I regret that the Academy has written a very nice advice, but it takes six months for us to get a cabinet vision on that. Israel shows that vaccination with boosters leads to an eleven times better protection, so do it quickly. We referred to that, but so did Ernst Kuipers. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is good practice in the Netherlands to have an open dialogue with the polder and with people;]] [[noting that the corona measures taken and proposed have a significant impact on care and on vaccinated and unvaccinated Dutch people;]] [[calls on the government to conduct short-term interviews with healthcare professionals directly on the workplace, including in the first line and vvt;]] [[calls on the Government also to conduct short-term talks with vaccinees and unvaccinated people in order to continue to build bridges in this society;]] [[invites the Government also to forward a brief report on these talks to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Hijink and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1548]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u691	I really ask the government to do so on its own. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u692	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Then I suggest we suspend the meeting for about 15 minutes, so that the rulers... can it be a little shorter? Ten minutes? Yeah, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u693	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u694	The motion in part No. 1524: dissuade. It's getting confusing. The message is the 1.5 meter. The motion in part No. 1525: Dissuade. We have an excellent minister. The motion in part No. 1527: advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 1528 I request to hold, but the SP is gone. The letter on aid measures remains to be discussed. If she doesn't get arrested, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 1529: advise against referring to the debate, at least for the first part of the operative part. So it's not advisable. The motion in part No. 1530: dissuade. We have always chosen to inform the public through the press conference, a letter to the Chamber that same evening and then an extensive debate. The motion in part No. So 1530 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 1532: dissuade. As you know, we still have a position on fireworks. The motion in part No. 1537: dissuade. This is not on the agenda, outside of order even, and thus dissuade. The motion in part No. 1542: dissuade. This was also discussed in the debate; therefore, advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 1543: with reference to the debate advised against. The strategy is to check as much as possible. The motion in part No. 1545: dissuade. Children's swimming lessons are exempt from the CTB. Parents who pick up children are subject to the CTB obligation. I think that's a good idea, too. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1546: advise against, because there is a support package and that is enough for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u695	About my motion in part No. 1530 says the outgoing Prime Minister: that's the way we agreed. Yes, I know this was agreed at the beginning of the corona crisis. Then you must act very quickly. Then there's a hurry, and then I can imagine you'd like to address the whole country and tell me what we're gonna do. But we are now twenty months ahead and there are quite a few things going wrong. That is what the outgoing Prime Minister has said here a number of times. I would then like to ask him what the substantive reasons are for not having the debate in the Chamber first and then to communicate the decisions to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u696	Simply because then in a parliamentary debate the Netherlands follows and gets all these different views about an attempted integral package and that integral package has never been presented as such. The government reserves the right to make proposals to the Chamber. As I do on Friday, if we are missionary after the cabinet meetings on which we bring out the cabinet decisions, we also feel that we have the power to do so in the form of a press conference as regards corona policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u697	You disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u698	No, I'm afraid so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u699	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u700	This is, of course, a fundamental point. The problem we are now facing is that things have been communicated to the whole country and we, as a Chamber, are still difficult to correct government policy. The argument is sometimes: yes, we have decided this and everyone has started working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u701	Once again, the cabinet simply has the power to bring out the decisions that we take itself in press conferences. We do that every Friday when we're missionary, and we do that about corona. Moreover, this also gives the opportunity to bring it all together properly. A great deal has been asked here about the basic measures. We'll talk about that, too. If you want viewers to do that, it's got to be new. "Keep your distance" and "let yourself be tested for complaints" et cetera; no one looks at such a press conference anymore when the whole debate has been over, it has been chewed out in the media and therefore the package has not been presented in its entirety. So it seems really unwise to me. What we always do when things do not have to be urgent like last Friday, but it is a package that only starts after the debate in the Chamber: we have still made adjustments to the package here, even last week and two weeks ago. That was then, I thought, about sports outside. There is, of course, always this space, because we try to reach decisions by consensus, at least with broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u702	Thank you. I want to thank the Prime Minister. Let's clean up. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u703	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the motion in part No. 1522 of JA21. I would advise against this because, compared to all the letters we send every two or three weeks, I do not see any added value in that. Then the motion to part No. 1523 on the EEA vaccine. I do not think it is wise to take such a fundamental decision without the opinion of the Health Council and without debate. So I am really going to ask you to hold this motion, because I think that before taking such a decision, we really should have had the debate first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u704	I would like to look at Mr Paternotte to see if he has the motion in part No. 1523 wants to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u705	I really don't get this. We are having a debate on this tonight. We have asked questions about this. Next week, the EEA will take a decision. There is no debate scheduled for that time. Other countries have already started or are already starting. It says in this motion that we would like to do so unless, of course, the opinion of the Health Council opposes it. So I don't really see the Minister's objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u706	Let us not pretend that this is a matter of haste. It just isn't. The first delivery comes at the end of December, for all countries alike. The first delivery for the Netherlands will cover 42,000 vaccines. The opinion of the Health Council is, of course, about: first of all, the groups at risk. That's what the Health Council's advice is about. I would find it really strange if we did not have a thorough debate with each other first and had the opportunity to have the Health Council look at the offer of a vaccine to all children under 12. There the benefit/risk distribution is very different from that of children over 12 or adults. So let's just do the advice first, then just do the debate and then make a decision. There's plenty of time, because it's not something that has to be done on a set date. The first delivery, as I just said, really doesn't come until the end of December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u707	I note that we do not agree on this, but I am still surprised that the cabinet really thinks too often that we can take a lot of time for this kind of decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u708	If the motion in part No. If 1523 isn't stopped, she'll be dissuaded, I suspect. I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u709	I don't know if she's not being arrested. I don't hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u710	Mr Paternotte did not declare that he was going to hold the motion. Then what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u711	If he is not going to hold the motion, then I have no choice but to advise her, because I am not going to take such a decision at almost two o'clock in the morning without having been able to have a normal debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u712	Thank you. The motion in part No. 1526.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u713	The motion in part No. 1526 with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1531 I'd like to leave judgment room. The re-registration has been suspended. Talking to employers outside of care to temporarily lend qualified caregivers to care is just a sensible idea. I would simply like to proceed with this motion, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide. Then the motion to part No. 1533. It says there as soon as possible, z.s.m. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, You can do it in the first half of the first quarter. So far, it's possible to do so, but this motion suggests that it has to be even faster. That's just not careful. I would therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1534 I would like to leave the Chamber of Justice to judge by reference to the debate. The motion in part No. I would advise against 1535 referring to the debate, because we want to come up with these different scenarios in the first quarter of 2022. The motion in part No. 1536 I would also advise against. We have had that conversation about 4,000 infections several times, but I advise against this motion with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1537 I advise, because the plan to catch up with delayed care is already there as soon as possible, so that is no longer necessary. The motion in part No. 1539 is a speech-expression. Then the motion to part No. 1540. I have, I think, explained that I am not in favour of this, because it violates privacy. I wouldn't want to do that. I'd advise against it. The motion in part No. 1541 I advise against. The Van Haga/Smolders motion in part No. 1544 with reference to the debate that we have had and that we will continue to have next week. The Van Haga c.s. motion. in piece No. 1546 I do not recommend referring to the debate. Then the motion-Omzigt c.s. in piece No. 1548...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u714	That, in my view, is the motion in part No. 1547.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u715	Excuse me. Is the motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's 1547?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u716	No, there's another motion, the Van Haga motion c.s. in piece No. 1547. He hasn't received an appreciation yet. It concerns the motion of Van Haga, Van der Plas, Kuzu, Pouw-Verweij and Agema. It says: "calls on the government primarily to resolve the care crisis."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u717	Yeah, I just dissuaded him. I've got number 1546 on top of that. Is that the motion in part No. 1547? Apologies, that is indeed the motion in part No. 1547. I didn't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u718	Then the motion-Omzigt c.s. in piece No. 1548. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. That is support policy, because we would very much like to have these talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u719	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-16-tweedekamer-6.u720	We're going to vote tomorrow on the motions that have been tabled. I would like to thank the directors, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
