ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u1	Then we shall begin with the first term on the part of the outgoing cabinet. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Prime Minister, then to the Secretary of State for Finance and finally to the Minister for Finance. I call the Prime Minister. I've just agreed with the Minister of Finance that that's the order. If it's different, we'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Basically, I'm doing all the questions that can't be traced directly to the IRS or to the IRS. the Ministry of Finance. These questions are all answered by the Secretary of State and the Minister, who are still talking about the order in which they are going to do so. That's where they're gonna come out. I'll do all the other questions. That's quite a pile. I would like to make two preliminary remarks. They're not about the subject, but they touch it. The first one is addressed to Mr Mulder, who said the Public Prosecutor's Office is corrupt. I reject that statement. The Public Prosecutor's Office is not corrupt, and it is these kinds of statements that ultimately erode the basis of our rule of law. It is important that we all, and fortunately some of us did just that, distance ourselves from it. The second comment is addressed to Mrs Leijten, who said 'I do not know whether she meant me by that or the cabinet that looks the elite down on people who have to make use of bonuses.' I'm glad you didn't. So I will refrain from doing so; I will leave that remark entirely on her behalf. Mr. Chairman. So much for my two preliminary remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you. Before you go any further, Mrs Leijten would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u4	I said that with the follow-up question about the human image that's out there right now: if you're not successful, you're actually a loser, and the moment you need supplements or benefits to make ends meet, you're a profiteer. For example, social security has been completed in our country, under the responsibility of this Prime Minister and the then Secretary of State for Social Affairs. Doesn't he recognize any of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u5	What a total bullshit. What a total bullshit. Do you think I, Wopke Hoekstra, Alexandra van Huffelen, this cabinet or anyone else in this Chamber would be here because we look down on other people? I am in politics for one reason, Mrs Leijten, because I love this country and because I think we can all make it much better. The role of politics is, among other things, to ensure that there are enough jobs and that the country is safe. I don't look up to anyone. I don't look down on anyone either. That's how I was raised. I really hate what you're saying. If you say this, you've come to believe in your own propaganda of the SP. It really doesn't make any sense from a to z. You make an analysis and then you throw it in my direction. I've really decided to distance myself from that kind of nonsense more than in the past, because it really affects me. It really affects me because it shows a human image, which is how you apparently look at other parties from the SP. I really object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr President, I said all this through you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u8	That's what I always say to the MPs, so we'll start with that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u9	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u11	I think it's fine if the Prime Minister says he doesn't agree with some of the things. But how can he explain that both at the surcharges and in the entire system of the UWV... Today a sick person in a bed had to be transported to the UWV by a wish-ambulance to prove that he is deadly sick. Then how does the Prime Minister explain that the government has become this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u12	Yeah, it's just that sometimes things go terribly wrong with the government. The childcare allowance affair is a very clear example of this. That's what we're talking about here. The cabinet has resigned on this issue, and rightly so. I shall come back to all kinds of aspects of this in detail. But because of what Mrs Leijten is saying here now, I think that is a fundamentally wrong remark, and she gives the impression, from the height, ex cathedra, that I, Mrs Leijten, say here that the people who are in the cabinet look down on people in this society who are apparently unable to finance themselves or otherwise have to use the government. So I'm not looking down on that. I consider every human being to be a unique person with unique qualities. I think it is up to all of us to ensure that we can go through life as independently as possible. But if that does not work, if we are dependent on the State as a shield for the weak, then for me as a liberal, but also for the confessions and for the progressive liberals in this cabinet, we will always ensure that the state is there as a shield for the weak. This is of course an example of how things sometimes go terribly wrong with the State. But Mrs Leijten here puts a terrible sticker on the head of the members of this cabinet, and probably also on a lot of people in this House of Representatives. That is her right, but it is also my right to take a very firm distance from it and to throw it far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u13	The Prime Minister is taking it very personally now. I think that's right. We have a government that is designed from that individualistic human image, which assumes that everyone has to make it and does not assume that people can't. In his interview, the Minister of Finance said that the systems are extremely complex even for those who are highly educated. Then it was said in the Ministerial Committee on Approaching Fraud that if you cannot use the systems, that abuse and fraud is and must be detected. They are therefore politically built, from a particular human image. That maybe that's changed now, could be...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u14	No, that hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u15	That hasn't changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u16	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you. I'll give the Prime Minister another chance to answer. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u18	That human image hasn't changed in me. I dare also say that of my colleagues in this cabinet, of this former coalition and of the parties that support it. I am proud of what liberals have contributed to this country, from the child law of Van Houten to the possibility of the welfare law in the 1960s under Marga Klompé. Those cabinets, with liberals, confessions and social democrats, are the big three pillars of this society, so the classic three pillars, which have always supported the political system, have always said the following. Listen, first of all, it makes sense that the people in this country are trying to move forward themselves. But that's not what everyone's been given. It may be prolonged and sometimes temporary that you rely on the government as a shield for the weak. And then I am glad that this government is there as a shield for the weak and that we are spending 10% of our national income in this country, and rightly so, to make sure that people are not in trouble against their debt and can use social security. I am pleased that we are spending 12%, 13% of our national income to ensure that, if Mrs Leijten or I become ill, we are entitled to the same care, the same doctors and the same quality hospitals with our salaries, as someone who keeps this building clean or someone who is forced to make use of benefits. Those are great achievements. So that human image is: yes, you're trying to make something out of it in the first place, but if that doesn't work out, then we're all there for you. That's a positive human image and not a negative human image. Mrs Leijten actually says: the members of the cabinet have contempt for the people in the country who cannot come. That's what she literally said in her contribution. Normally, I might have let that pass, but I didn't want to do that right now. How far does this go? How far are we going to smear each other with this kind of disgusting view of how other people would stand in life? That's from a to z total bullshit. This isn't me, that's not Wopke Hoekstra, that's not Alexandra van Huffelen, that's not this coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u19	Let me give Mrs Leijten the last word. The Prime Minister hasn't started yet. Finally, Mrs Leijten and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u20	I did not ask him for nothing whether the human image of the successful man who has to save himself and who, if he does not succeed, is a profiteer and possibly a frauder and can therefore be thoroughly controlled is not the fault of how this came about. That's what I asked. If he denies that, then I find that very regrettable, because I think that human image has contributed to it. When I look at what people need to show when they need a care indication and you can all name it... That doesn't come from the question "we trust you; what do you need" but it's all built up from mistrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mrs Leijten has moved into her own propaganda of the SP. That's all right, but I'm really gonna throw those accusations back to her party right now. Mr. Chairman. Here's how I'm gonna do it. I am about to answer a number of questions that are more general about contact with parents, including myself, the status of the cabinet, the value of the excuses and the drawing of lessons. Following these general questions, I would like to address the underlying questions on the basis of four themes. The first is: do I want to get rid of the surcharges? It also applies to the cabinet that we ultimately want to get rid of. The second category contains all the questions that have been asked about administrative law, the role of civil servants and the freedom of policy. The third group has to do with Article 68 of the Constitution. Finally, I come to the questions that have been raised about the fight against fraud. Again, it's just the general questions. The questions related to Finance and the Tax Office will be answered by the Minister and the Secretary of State. Then I come to the question: what kind of cabinet is here? Here's a missionary cabinet. As you know, we resigned on 15 January. Since then, we've been a missionary. We have said that we will continue to do whatever is necessary. We have mentioned two points in particular, namely everything that has to do with combating the corona crisis and giving follow-up to the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance. Then there is the question of the contacts I have had myself. Part of these were together with Secretary of State Van Huffelen and in most cases together with the Minister of Finance, Hoekstra. There have been several moments when there was contact with the parents. We talked about what happened to the parents, but also about how the recovery operation could be improved. At the beginning of February and at the end of March I had a conversation with the two colleagues in the Catshuis with a delegation from the parents who wrote an open letter in Trouw on 12 January. On 23 March I had a digital meeting with the parent panel and on 16 April we physically met with the parent panel in the Catshuis. On 11 May, with a delegation from the parent panel and a professor of mediation, we discussed the healing process, which is also mentioned in this debate by a number of speakers, which goes beyond the financial side, the return to which people are entitled. I would not call it compensation, because people are entitled to return their own money. Then I also have regular one-on-one contact with parents myself. That's often zooming. Sometimes that was in response to a letter, sometimes it has led to follow-up contacts and with a few of them I will keep in touch. Soon I will have a conversation with other parents again, because they have ideas about improving the recovery operation. I can only say that these conversations are all impressive, both in a group and individually, and I will continue to do so. In that context, Mrs Kat asked me what stayed with me the most. Again, each of those conversations is very poignant. I remember a parent who had started training again after a difficult period in her life. At that time, the childcare allowance was recovered and it was no longer able to make use of the childcare allowance. Because of that, she got a big debt and had to break off the study. Another parent was confronted with health problems of her partner. As a result, full attention was focused on keeping up all the balls in her family and at work and not on correctly filling out the figures up to the last decimal place and placing the signature in exactly the right box on the child care allowance forms. Whatever touches me in those conversations is the resilience of parents. Some of them are in a lot of trouble, even psychologically. The recovery you hope is going to take a long time. That is why that aspect of healing, which I have just mentioned, is so important. But despite everything that has happened to them and despite all the government's actions, parents are willing to consider how the recovery operation can be improved. For example, I run into these parents in the parent panel. And they are also willing to accompany other parents in the process. But what stays with me the most is that all parents talk about what it's done to their children. The impact there is enormous. The happiness of children is hopefully for all parents, but at least for almost all parents, the most important. This is due to what they can give to the children: safety, security, education, but from absolute acceptance of the child and who it is. The feeling of not being able to provide that security, because there is so much stress in the house, affects almost all the parents I've spoken to. Finally, that was also mentioned a few times in the contributions 'parents' say: I want to know who did it. They're literally asking me: why did you do it? Although I didn't press the button and do this, I get the question. I believe that one or two MPs in the first term of the Chamber also said that people want to know who it was. They want to see a face and know who it was. In the context of the healing process you also try to give hands and feet to it, because that is so very important. Van Raan said: there is a difference between what Mr Rutte said on 19 January when the cabinet resigned and on 26 April in the debate on the Minutes. That's not true. By the way, I stood there both times as Prime Minister. I said on 19 January that the cabinet did not withhold information for political reasons. This led to a brief discussion in April on what exactly political reasons are. That was, of course, about November 2019, the decision not to call officials by name, which came back to the debate on the Minutes.......................................................................................................................................................................................... That was the policy at the time. Then we said together in this Chamber: you can of course say that these are political reasons. That was the debate on 26 April. But these are not political reasons in the sense that we thought we were deliberately withholding documents because that would be better for us. It wasn't. We discussed this at length on 26 April. Mr Van Raan's assertion that there is a slight difference is therefore incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u22	It is an honour for me to be corrected by the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, but I do not quite understand it. Either I hear the Prime Minister, the person, the group chairman of the VVD, say 'we embrace all the conclusions of the interrogation committee' or I do not hear him say that. If I hear him say that, I say thank you, Prime Minister, I was wrong. He spoke with one voice, both as Prime Minister, as a person and as a member of the VVD Group. Then I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u23	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u24	And then the person, the prime minister, embraces member of the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u25	... and the leader of the political group of the Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u26	... and the group chairman all the conclusions, including what has been said about the political...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u27	The answer is yes! Nice, solved! Now the essence of your speech is gone, but very nice. This was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u28	For the viewers, the Prime Minister says it is the essence of my speech. I'm glad. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u29	Very good, fine. That's why we're together: to remove that kind of misunderstanding. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet apologized when the report appeared to the injured parents and to the children. I agree with everyone who says that it cannot stop there. That's why a lot of fantastic people work hard, especially at the Ministry of Finance. In the club that Alexandra van Huffelen is leading politically, there is a tremendous amount of work being done to manage things. I'm so proud of those people. There are all kinds of things that have to be done faster and differently and all kinds of problems that we still have to solve, but hundreds of people are working on this incredibly hard. You also saw the 90 actions in the letter we sent. I'm helping where I can, especially in contact with the parents. I can tell you that there is an apology and that nothing is being done about it. Then Members asked Leijten, Snels and Azarkan in different ways what lessons we could draw. I think we have discussed this very extensively in the debate on the resignation of the cabinet. If I try to sum it up, I think it is about the information management and provision that needs to be improved, the far too complex system of surcharges. I shall come back to one of the four themes in a moment, and the fact that we had too little attention to signals from the implementation and too little attention to whether the implementation is still in line with the intention of the laws and regulations. It's all matters I'm about to discuss. I think that was discussed at length during that debate in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u30	An interruption by Mr Azarkan van DENK and then by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u31	A question to the Prime Minister. When was it clear to the Prime Minister that this was not a question of inappropriate and careless administration but of unlawful state action?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u32	This became clear in the course of 2019, when it became bigger and bigger. We can read that back in the interrogation committee's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u33	That is strange in itself, because in 2017, the Ombudsman concludes it. In response to questions from colleague Omtzigt, it is stated from the cabinet that it was already the case in 2017. On October 11, 2018, it is already known that the government is acting unlawfully. It is only said that the impact on parents is not recognised. I'm surprised. If this is already known in 2017 it is also written down and it is then said that the impact on those parents is underestimated, they had knowledge of it before 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr Azarkan asked me when I was fully aware of how serious this is. I discussed this in detail in February. That was from June 2019, when Menno Snel came to the cabinet with the explanation of how big the problem was. Then it became clear in the months after that it was not hundreds of people but thousands. By now, we know they're tens of thousands of people. That realization in 2019 was the moment that I became fully aware of it. I have also mentioned at previous times that too many people, including myself, have not or not sufficiently taken note of the Ombudsman's 2017 report, signals from 2018, but also signals from the SP from 2009 or 2010 and from the PVV from 2012, I thought. The tragedy of this whole subject is, of course, that the cabinet did not really work as a team until the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u35	Just for a second. I really care about the difference between the carelessness, the improperness and the unlawfulness. That's what it was all about in the first part of the Chamber. If I understand correctly, the Prime Minister said on 4 June, when we had the debate with Menno Snel, that he had come out of the tunnel of denial and of the idea that the Tax Administration was still doing well. Is it true that the Prime Minister said that around June he became aware that the Tax Administration was acting illegally against these parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u36	I don't use that term, because it has legal implications that I can't see. I can only say that when the seriousness of the matter became clear to the full.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u37	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u38	That's a little lame. That's not the question. My question to the Prime Minister is not when it became clear to him in full terms. I don't think it was like that at the time. We didn't realize it at all, because thousands of civilians are still joining us every week. We are having a debate with each other to determine very well what happened. Mr Omtzigt, Mr Leijten and other colleagues have had a lot of debates with each other. I counted the number of debates. This is the twenty-fourth debate with more than 105 hours of debate on this subject. Then I ask the question when it was clear that there was unlawful action. That unlawful act has been established, we got it back in a letter. I'm just asking a question. I'm not asking when the full extent became known to you. I'm asking the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u39	I just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u40	I ask the question when the Prime Minister knew there was an unlawful act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u41	That's what I'm saying for the tenth time. We also discussed it in the previous debate. It has become clear to the cabinet as a collective and to me as a prime minister from the summer of 2019. This has also been described in detail in the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u42	I asked the Prime Minister what the excuses were worth. He answers that he's talked to a lot of parents, with the dates. I think that's enough. I wasn't expecting any more. After all, there is also a corona crisis. On that part, he convinced me. On another issue, namely where we stand a year and a half later and what can you expect when such a great disaster comes about about people, I am not convinced. What's the Prime Minister's opinion? We're a year and a half away and people are still in terrible trouble. If a Prime Minister apologizes, I expected it to be resolved a year and a half later. Isn't that supposed to be the main goal? There's no sign of a solution yet. We have now been given all kinds of options with advantages and disadvantages and then a follow-up is given after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u43	Of course, it is not true that there is no prospect of a solution at all. There's an incredible amount of work going on. A lot of people got $30,000. A lot of people are now working to get the whole file settled in a good way. It's not like nothing's gonna happen. But it's incredibly complex. A lot of people are working on it. Everything that goes well is thanks to the people who work terribly hard on it. If things don't go well, I feel responsible. That's not the point. Last year Van Huffelen started working to build the organization. Subsequently, the €30,000 scheme was decided in December, which I still believe is a good thing to speed up the process. I know it was critical, but I think it was really necessary. Right now you see that it worked, not on May 1st, but I thought on May 12th, to give the vast majority of people the money. It's money they're entitled to. It's not a return, it's just giving back the money they're entitled to, at least on a flat-rate basis. And, of course, the individual settlement. Then there are a lot of issues that need to be further worked out and discussed this week by the Chamber: the child schemes, the ex-partners and matters outside the childcare allowance. All that sort of thing now needs to be pricked further. The aim was first of all to get as far as possible by building up the organisation and actually moving towards compensation. You can't say that nothing has happened in the last few months. We've taken some really big steps in that. Of course I want more and Van Huffelen wants more, but the grass won't grow faster by pulling it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u44	I do not dispute at all that a lot of people have worked very hard. In fact, why don't you get on your feet and start working with those implementing organisations, with all that pressure? This isn't what I'm questioning at all. It is true that the Secretary of State has apologized before. Since that apology, we've been two and a half years. Since the apologies of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, we have been a year and a half. We're right where we are now. You can criticize the €30,000 scheme. That came only after a political fact, namely after the interrogation committee. That wasn't after almost a year earlier an apology had been made. So I ask the Prime Minister what he has done in the last year and a half to adjust, to make sure that the parents are done justice and that the children are helped. That is also the main conclusion of the government's investigation report. There are two main conclusions: emotional and social assistance is not provided, and it is going to take far too long. This is still the case today, with the current approach. What has the Prime Minister done to prevent this and to ensure that it would have been much better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u45	I didn't do anything about it directly, because I don't work for the IRS. I'm not a secretary of state. As chairman of the team, I have tried to facilitate that firstly Hoekstra, Van Huffelen and, by the way, Vijlbrief felt completely free to make high-level appointments within the service. These were very important, including appointments of executives to different parts of the Tax Administration that are working on this. Two. I think we have managed to find two A1 Secretary of State that I am incredibly pleased with, namely Alexandra van Huffelen and Hans Vijlbrief. They run the IRS. Van Huffelen does this particularly for this subject. As you can see, she has managed to set up an organization with her people in a short time. She doesn't do it herself; she can't hire hundreds of people who I was able to engage in the dialogue with a while ago. I was really impressed by the energy that is sitting there and by the incredible sense of restoring justice for people who have been doing this, who all want to go faster. Everyone wants this faster. I really couldn't figure out what you can do now to make the grass grow faster. If you change things all over again, it'll only slow down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u46	Perhaps in the first sentence of the answer is the problem I have with the Prime Minister's reply. He said: I didn't do anything about it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u47	Not directly. I don't work at the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u48	Not directly, because I don't work at the IRS. If a Prime Minister makes personal apologies to the Dutch people and to the parents in particular, I expect him to take action himself, take action and make sure that something happens. I've seen the discussions under his direction in the cabinet. They were mainly about the question: how do we save our own asses? He wasn't very proud of those ministerial minutes himself. It wasn't about the question: how do we help the parents? That's what I'm talking to him about. I think the Prime Minister could have done more. That's not about growing grass. That's making sure something happens. Grow grass, anyone here can grow grass. You're in the cabinet to make sure the parents were justiced. This has not been done enough in the last year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u49	My task is to ensure, as Prime Minister, that the team functions properly, that everyone can take the necessary actions and that political knots are removed. This is an excellent chefsache, just like COVID-19 is a chefsache. That doesn't mean I'm designing the vaccination campaign myself. That's what Hugo the Young does to his people. This is, in that sense, Chiefsache that it is so big that I wonder every day whether we are doing all the good things and whether everyone feels free to make the necessary decisions. The same applies to the childcare allowance. Alexandra van Huffelen and I have a lot of contact about that. I think she's doing incredibly well. I also think that the people who work there are doing very well. It is not true that I have moved my office to finance, dropped everything and have only been doing this. I do not think that is a task you would like. We have to make sure that the good people are there, that the good things happen and that those people know that if there are administrative, political or budgetary problems, it has to be my top priority at the time to solve them. In fact, I often know that this is also official help from General Affairs, so that we can take immediate action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u50	I hear the Prime Minister say a number of things about which I would like to ask another question. First of all, I hear him say, and I am very happy that the money that the parents have now received is their own money. I'm really glad to hear that. Does that also mean that the Prime Minister realizes that if you've lost something and you get it back, you're not yet done with the damage that's been caused by losing it in the first place, and that a broad vision is needed when it comes to healing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u51	Yes. I fully agree with Mrs Simons' speech. I think Alexandra van Huffelen will go into that in more detail. By the way, it's a very difficult one. The weird thing is, giving it back to people they deserve isn't the easy part. It's not compensation either, but it's just giving back their money. I've talked to a lot of people who didn't want to talk about compensation at all, but they just wanted their money back. I fully agree with Mrs Simons that this is not the end of the matter. Everyone reacts in their own way. There are many people around who thought they were a fraud, who sometimes broke up marriages because their husband or wife thought the IRS wouldn't do something like that and so he or she would be wrong, which turns out not to be at all. They're not a fraud. It's so deep, you don't solve it with money. I had a conversation with Alexandra van Huffelen on 11 May with a delegation from the parent panel, the VNG, but also with a professor of mediation on how to do that, drawing lessons from what happened in other countries of the world that theme is perhaps a bit bigger with very big political changes, where very violent periods are closed and such a country has to go through in a new transition. Of course, that's different from what we're going through here, but you can learn lessons from it. Maybe it's okay if Alexandra van Huffelen elaborates on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u52	I look forward to the Secretary of State's response. However, I regret that the Prime Minister is not taking the opportunity, but perhaps I am asking for something that is not going to be moved at all in parents who are looking at this debate and thinking: there is someone there to defend that there has been so hard work and that all his people are doing so well and doing so much work, when nothing has actually happened more than giving a bag of money here and there that is generally not enough. I think that is somewhat contradictory, and I would have liked to have clarified that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u53	It's both true. There is a terrible amount of work; that is actually true. And again, I'm proud of the people who do that. It is also true that you want it to be faster and that issues related to compensation for ex-partners and how to deal with children are discussed. There are also debates with the Chamber on this. We can also take the necessary decisions. The money for that is available. You'd want that all faster; that's absolutely true. It's both true. But it is not that that is not happening now because of insufficient focus in the execution. It's extremely complex. One of the things we've been doing for months is the issue of private and public debt. How do you manage, if people get compensation, that they do not disappear in one go into the hole of debt that in many cases also arose from this childcare crisis? It's all complex and it calls for consultation with a lot of people. The VNG, the Social Affairs aldermen and the social services, or wherever the municipalities house it, are also working terribly hard, but often the social service is the window for helping people. I absolutely want to have them appointed here and also how terribly hard work is being done, among others by Peter Heijkoop, the chairman of the VNG's Social Affairs Committee, who is also a member of the ministerial committee, together with Jan van Zanen, the chairman of the VNG, and the director of the VNG. We sit together every three or four weeks to go through all that and see where the bottlenecks are and how we can solve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u54	I dare say on behalf of the parents that this commitment is of course appreciated. It's important that that kind of bumps are taken. But I didn't ask the Prime Minister if he shares the wish that it should be faster. To be honest, I haven't even spoken to a parent who says it has to be faster. The Prime Minister just said that a lot is being done. But the question is, of course, whether the right thing is being done. Apart from faster, apart from processes, I have one final question: does Demissionary Prime Minister Rutte recognise that the answer to the question is broader than a process of recovery payments and that intangible efforts are also required to repair intangible damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u55	Yes. Mrs Simons' first question touched on that immediately. Even in the financial section, that question would also be true. Let me give you an example. Maybe Van Huffelen can go into that in a moment. In those conversations with the parent panel, but also with the people who had written the letter to Trouw on 12 January, who said that we should resign and with whom we have spoken twice, this was of course also discussed. After we talked for a long time about what this did to them, to us and to children that was a very important part of those conversations we also talked about the practical aspects in the second half. How can you speed things up? Is the one-day procedure possible? Can you come in the morning and walk out at night with your compensation? What's it gonna take? In practice, this appears to be more complex. We'd miss things if you just applied them. Those were very useful conversations. You'll figure out how to speed things up. Van Huffelen has the current examples of this. You get out of it how to make sure you do the good things. With such a big operation as this one, you'll always find that some things should have been different after all. It would've gone faster. But you must always try to gather the insights during the ride where you can speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u56	You've gone into the process of healing extensively. I think you raised a very important question: what do the parents think is important? That's knowing who did it. I'm very curious how badly you want to know who did it. And if you know, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u57	That's what the Van Dam report is about. That, of course, has tried to explain. It's not like we can say I'm taking you to a room and there's the guilty one. It is not as it was in South Africa with apartheid: there is the last president of apartheid and he has caused it; now Mandela is President and we are trying to initiate a dialogue. You can't do that here. That's what Van Dam shows. It's not that clear. If a parent asks me why I did this to him or her, I get that question. Then my sincere answer is: I did not press a button that caused this to happen. You may blame me, very much blame us, we have also resigned, that this could happen, that the government has created this enormous misery. That is perfectly clear. But the sweetest thing, I notice, is that a lot of parents would want me to be able to identify one person who caused it. It's not that black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u58	But you are prepared to go with us to the utmost to find answers where possible, to find them with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u59	That is, of course, the whole issue of what we have tried, including the parliamentary interrogation committee. This is the issue that you can do with parents for people who are financially compensated at some point, but do not say or fail to get on with their lives because there is still so much pain, so much sense of rejection, so much sense of injustice, that they have to talk about it. Among other things, on the advice of the National Ombudsman, who was with me in April and had also spoken with Alexandra van Huffelen, we said: let us indeed have this conversation. Then we had the old panel and there was a very concrete suggestion from one person. I must also say that I was very impressed with the conversation with that person. That's what we're trying to pick up now. Together with the VNG and with old panel members, we are trying to further align that process. Again, Alexandra van Huffelen will be able to comment on the latest state of affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you. I saw Mrs. Kat and then Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u61	I believe I have heard the outgoing Prime Minister say that he was partly responsible for the progress of a number of actions, 80, 90 actions that we currently have, for a better government. You have not answered my question why your name is not under the letter. I would like to know why that is and what signal you are sending with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u62	I only signed one letter. That was when you resigned. At that time, I felt it necessary for me to sign that letter on behalf of the entire cabinet. That was the response to the parliamentary interrogation committee. Furthermore, it is not customary for me to send letters to the Chamber, except when it comes to the European Council. Even then, Stef Blok sends them, also on my behalf. He then sends the annotated agenda. That's all you need to find out. Every letter the cabinet sends is mine, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u63	I think parents don't want to know who did it so much as why. They still don't get answers to that. There the backlogs are huge, and there the government again violates all the laws of the general administration law. But now back to the report Unfamiliar injustice, because that is what we are standing here for today. I have asked the Prime Minister what he thinks of the image that all those who were at least highly responsible are still high and dry everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u64	That's really in the division of roles. That question will answer Wopke Hoekstra. He is doing the same on my behalf, and we have talked through everything well, but I would like to maintain the division of roles. That really affects the Treasury Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u65	This touches the ABD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u66	Sure, too. But of course this also affects personnel policy in the finance sector. And he has a good answer to that, which I support from a to a.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u67	The Prime Minister's acting like he understands everything, like he understands everything. He says it's so impressive. Those words may all be good, but those parents are still permanently supporting each other. There's gonna be calls from someone who's in a psychosis, where we're gonna go and help. And that's all because it takes so long; it all comes because the time is taken to move it all forward. There is an adopted motion which states: accelerate the process by a one-day procedure, an individual process. It's just not being carried out. How does the Prime Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u68	All questions concerning adopted motions that touch on the execution will be answered by Alexandra van Huffelen. The personnel policy in Finance is done by the Minister of Finance. There are three of us here; that's how we divided it. I don't have exactly the final score here, so I really want to ask you to respect that division of labour a little bit. But you will get an answer to that, and that answer is always mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u69	The explanation can of course also be that the arrangements here are made by people who do not understand what is needed. The explanation can of course also be used that this is because we have built a government that distrusts people and sets up processes based on mistrust. Could the Prime Minister follow that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u70	No, that's bullshit. We didn't build a government that distrusts people. That's total bullshit. Something terrible went wrong here in the IRS. This also affects the information system and the question of how signals come out, so all the aspects we have answered in relation to the issue, including the Van Dam report. But Mrs. Leijten is doing another sweeping statement that is really bullshit. I am not going to do that either, because there are officials watching now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u71	I think this was just at the beginning of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u72	Yeah, that was actually the start of the debate. Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u73	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten for a question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u74	And I'll keep coming back to it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u75	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u76	...because I'm so anxious to look for that awareness. Last year we dealt here with the law on compensation. The ink wasn't dry yet, or the compensation organization got stuck. The Chamber said that there must be a reversal of the burden of proof. It's not the parents who have to go back and prove that they're entitled to something. That has now become the procedure. How does the Prime Minister explain that: that it is not the intention, but that it is the outcome, within a few months? How does he explain that? What mechanisms are behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u77	Perhaps it is true that not everything can be explained in the form of mechanisms, but that we are dealing here with an extremely complex issue. This is something that could have been created within a corner of the Tax Administration, where something is completely derailed, in a terrible way. That has to be repaired now. People need to get their money back; that is also right. I had just had a discussion with Mrs Simons about the right to have recognised what has been caused by immaterial suffering, and how we can make sure that people can take up life again, which is more than just a financial question. That's all true. But that doesn't mean this. Mrs Leijten may personally blame me for everything, and then I defend myself, just as the debate began. Then I say: I often agree with her, but what she said at the beginning, I thought nonsense. Then she will hear it from me; she knows it. We always talk to each other in capital letters, and that is why we respect each other. But if in this way she says in her question at implication "the whole government is built on mistrust," and she says to hundreds of thousands of people, who work in the government, municipalities and provinces, "you are maintaining an organization built on distrust," I am sorry. For my part, I would like to say that Mrs Leijten has every right to find it. But I also have every right to stand up for that government and pay my respects to those people who stand up every morning to make sure that this country is safe, that there are jobs and that people who get into trouble against their guilt have a safety net in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u78	Mrs Leijten, you are in fact completely out of your interruptions, but I will give you the opportunity to do so. There are two other directors and I would like to ask you a few more questions, but then it will end a little bit, because I would also like to give that to other Members of Parliament. I'll give you another chance to ask the Prime Minister one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u79	If the Prime Minister says I'm throwing away hundreds of thousands of officials because I say the system was built out of mistrust, then he doesn't understand where the crux is. Do you know what's bothering them the most? That they should not help people and should not look into their eyes! Those are the civil servants. Why does this go wrong and why does it run off the rails during the recovery operation? Because the operation wasn't built by thinking from people, but by thinking from systems. That's what's going wrong, because those systems aren't neutral. I would like the Prime Minister to understand that, because then the parents can look at this debate and think: prevent this for the future, at least we will. And that human measure isn't there because of the systems and the laws we've made. It's not because of the officials they're running. That's a misconception.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u81	You can see it happening again now. It is precisely these hard-working personal businessmen who run the risk of being unable to continue in that human contact, because the system does not quickly get the parents through it. That was the idea of a one-day procedure. That was adopted six months ago and it is simply not being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u82	Thank you. The Prime Minister has indicated that the Secretary of State will return to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u83	Sure. Mrs Leijten has just made serious points about this and they must...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u84	I shall then give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks and then to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union. I would also ask Members to keep the interruptions a little shorter so that everyone can be heard. I call Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that I myself said in the first term that it is very human to look for who did it when so much suffering has been caused. At the same time, of course, that is very difficult. I believe that this kind of debate is necessary, also for the parents, because you have to keep asking why this has actually happened. My question is about something else and is actually in line with Mrs Kat's very simple question: why didn't you sign that letter? With me, it's a little more fundamental. There are 89 actions by the cabinet and we see that are going to shatter into different departments. I think this is a very important subject. The human dimension of implementation is related to information provision, the quality of legislation and the quality of administrative services. I would very much like to ask the Cabinet to consider how we will continue to report to the Chamber in conjunction with this, so that we can also see in conjunction what is happening both at the Tax Office and at the UWV and other bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u87	Otherwise, I'm afraid, we run the risk of it running away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u88	I understand Mr Snels' justified question, but our idea is to inform the Chamber about progress on the relevant routes. The cabinet can then give an integral overview of each subject. For example, the cabinet wants to merge the recommendations on the implementation of the Work on Implementation report, the report of the Bosman Committee and the report of the Van Dam Committee, Unknown injustice, into a multi-annual government-wide Work Agenda for public services. This also includes the Klem report between the desk and policy of the temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations. In this way, we want to bring these matters together in a work agenda. As a result, all matters relating to implementation are always considered in full. The report also contains issues relating to the information position of the Chamber, the Wob and Article 68. I think that goes much further than just the answer to the Van Dam Committee's report. We have included it in the letter because, following the Van Dam Committee, the cabinet said: we have to deal in a very different way with the provision of documents to the Chamber, Article 68, the Wob and the Woo that is coming. I do not see the added value of including progress in these integrated progress reports, especially in the Home Affairs area. This was also discussed last Monday with Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister of the Interior. The first time it was still in those progress reports, but it would therefore be my proposal to keep everything together that has to do with that government-wide Public Service Work Agenda, so that this integrity can be seen there. However, I propose that this should not necessarily apply to the follow-up to openness and the issues relating, for example, to the General Administrative Law Act, which we must also work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u89	Thank you. Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u90	I would like to support Mr Leijten. I know that Minister Hoekstra will answer our questions about personnel policy in a moment, but I also have a question for the Prime Minister. I started my contribution with a reminder of a college of the then director of the Tax Administration. That was in stark contrast to how employees at the Tax Administration wanted to do justice to parents. I quoted the whistleblower Mr Niessen and I quoted Mrs Palmen's memo. My question was and is at the moment also for the Prime Minister: what does he see as his task and responsibility so that there is a kind of natural culture and natural climate within the government, with regard to Mr Niessen and with regard to notes such as Mrs Palmen's? This is a problem, an issue that is, of course, broader than just the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u91	This is just crucial. So you're talking about a climate where mistakes are detected and addressed. I think we're all saying that making mistakes is human and that it's also about learning from those mistakes. That starts with expressing this ambition, also in this place. It also has to do with what you do in concrete terms, what interventions you make. This has to do with how policies and legislation are aligned. This has to do with how crucial it is that implementation is always involved in new legislation and not through an implementation test, in the vein of: "Can you write it down a little bit differently?" "No, but it really can't." As a Member of Parliament, I can now say that it also has to do with how we should not try to incorporate the last individual problem into a law, but rather try to leave room for human measure in execution. And then he comes: if sounds are not heard and picked up internally, then we have to ring the bell. Then there must be a culture with, of course, an internal confidant, the House for Whistleblowers, but I think Mr Grinwis is right to point out that it has something to do with whatever culture you set up. That culture has to be that if something goes wrong, you solve it. That when it comes to a structural problem, you say that you have a problem with legislation or whatever, which makes it go wrong every time. That when colleagues do something that is absolutely against your standards, you say the same thing. As Mr Grinwis put it very nicely, you say: this behavior is what we consider normal in this organisation, and we find that behavior to be abnormal. So you're saying that to each other. The advantage of this is that then it is pronounced according to what kind of culture you want as an organization. Then people can move in the right direction, because by far most people want to. That's much better than pushing everyone up all day or trying to steer in the right direction. Mr Grinwis's speech therefore appealed to me. It hits a lot more than just the IRS. I do not want to see this as a tax administration problem; this threatens every organization. It is important that leadership sets the standard and indicates the direction of the kind of behavior that is expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u92	I want to believe the Prime Minister. I want to believe him. So while we're talking about the concept of culture, I'm asking him a question. I mentioned the Ruttedoctrine in my speech and outlined the problem that may still exist. I gave three examples. First of all, the Wob request concerning granules, where a journalist is in court because he doesn't get his stuff. In addition, the Wob request for a fossil project in Mozambique, where the deadline has long passed. And Article 68 Constitution, which, on the one hand, is declared sacred to change that culture, while, at the same time, yesterday we received a letter with 13 points which makes exceptions. Uhh...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u93	I'll come back to that in a minute. I'd like to bring it up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u94	Thank you for saying this, because that means that he can take into account the extent to which this contributes to the removal of this Rutte doctrine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u95	The Prime Minister will come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u96	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u97	By the way, the term "Ruttedoctrine" occurs once, in a text from an AZ official to me and refers to what we have been doing with the Wob since the 1980s, namely not providing personal policy ideas. We've been reviewing that since January. Now to the question. The grounds for exception listed by the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in a policy line have been the interpretation of the concept of "the importance of the State" for two decades, i.e. 20 years. I believe that this was the subject of the debate on Monday in the note-to-note meeting, or Tuesday. That explanation is not new. I can refer to the 2002 letter and the other letters on the subject. The Chamber has also always endorsed this interpretation of the Constitution. This was done in the context of the evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey Act. The Temporary Committee endorsed the 2002 letter on Article 68 of the Constitution explaining the importance of the State. The reason for these exceptions is that there is a responsibility of directors for the proper handling of data, and thus also for the proper functioning of the administration. They're not all absolute either. There are many grounds that are relative and require a weighting between the aforementioned interest and the interest of the government. Think of the methods or intentions of inspections, such as an unannounced check or compliance with the rules in hotels or slaughterhouses, for example. It's silly to mention that example of a massacre, with this interrupter, but he'll agree with me. If such information becomes public, that inspection will no longer be effective. But I am also thinking of the protection of personal data or national security. So it's not black and white. What is new is that since the cabinet response to the POK, personal policy views have been given to the Chamber in the decision notes given to the Chamber since 1 July, even if specific documents are requested by the Chamber. In addition, the agenda and decision list of the Council of Ministers have been made public since April. I think that is incredibly important and gives full follow-up to the report on transparency and openness. Maybe I should deal with that block right away; that is one of the four themes that I wanted to come up with now. Mr Stoffer's question was: how do you avoid bloated expectations about measures in the information economy and the strengthening of counter-power? I think the only answer to that may be that this is a responsibility to all of us. Eventually, such a report should not be published, like the Van Dam Committee. In the end, that's the goal. This means that signals of implementation or of people, citizens, must be put on the board of policy makers and politicians more structured and more binding. The government can't accept people getting lost in a bureaucratic maze. That also means that you have to guide people who need it in that whole process. The quality of policy and legislation needs to be improved; I will come back to that in a separate way. There needs to be more room for customization. But it is also about protection against discrimination, as a fundamental right. Article 1 of the Constitution. What are we talking about? Let's be clear about that. The point is that the action of the government is beyond any doubt. But it is also about providing the government with information to parliament. It needs to be better and more transparent. These are, of course, all the actions we are taking now, including those of 86 actions in response to the report. Mr. Chairman. I come to three other points. The first one is about fees. Mr Grinwis and others asked about this. I also agree with the Christian Union that we need to move towards a simpler, more accessible and more understandable system of surcharges. As you know, the cabinet has developed alternatives and scenarios for a new system of child services. In the end, this will probably have to take place in a formation, or at least in the new cabinet, if that ever comes. At the same time, it is clear that it will take a very long time to get there. We know that it is not enough to raise the minimum wage. My party's for that, too. Of course we always take cautious steps; we are a quiet party. Other parties are also in favour of this, with some bigger steps. It's a political consideration how you're gonna fill that out. But we do know that if you don't do well and you eliminate those surcharges too quickly, that has a tremendous deleveling effect that would scare even the right-wing VVD. That's really something that's gonna take a while. In the meantime, therefore, we will have to resolve the bottlenecks in the current system. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of administrative law and related matters. Several questions have been asked, for example how to better guarantee the general principles of good governance in the Awb. We have also shown in the progress letter that this should actually be done along two tracks. Firstly, it must be ensured that sectoral legislation itself is in order. Implementation must be able to do so, which is really one of the lessons from the whole report and I think it is also one of the conclusions that we have drawn together on this matter in order to make proportionate assessments. The general principles of good governance and, therefore, the personal situations of citizens are of course leading the way to the completion of this area. A draft legislative proposal to adapt the Awb is also being prepared, which provides more opportunities and obligations for administrative bodies to actually deliver that customisation. The general principles of good governance are also at the forefront of this. In addition, consideration is also being given to the application of these general principles to articles of law with binding powers, i.e. articles of law which, in principle, do not allow for exceptions. In this context, work is being carried out on a system whereby administrative bodies, and hence the administrative judge, may derogate from such a law article if there are cases where the sectoral legislator has not been involved in its deliberations. That is extremely complex, by the way. This legislative proposal is being worked on, but it really takes some time before it can be consulted. That's because it's so complex. Shall I answer all the questions on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u98	Yes. It'll be nice if you finish that block. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u99	I'm gonna finish the block. Or even? It's just a few questions. There was Mr Snels' question about the undertaking that existing legislation will be analysed as to whether it will work hard and, if so, how. That is, of course, also the motion of the Labour Party and D66, the Ploumen/Jetten motion, in which the cabinet is asked to make a comprehensive inventory of these effects. The departments are currently carrying out an inventory of laws and regulations. It is being tested on this point, for its hardness, and in any case the input is collected within its own ministry, but also from the implementation organisations associated with that department, which make important decisions for people in the country. The lawyer is also involved and the National Ombudsman is questioned. Planning is aimed at bringing together the first results in the autumn and sending them to the Chamber. Mr Snels also asked: how do we operationalise the right not to be humiliated, so how do we ensure that legislation is not too harsh? In fact, I have just touched on the issue of hardness, but I would like to stress once again that I think we all agree on it. It also has to do, if I may add, with the coherence between legislation, which can sometimes unintentionally turn out to be harsh for certain citizens. A letter was also sent on 25 June by Minister Dekker on strengthening the quality of policies and legislation in which this is further elaborated. In the same context, the SGP asked me: are you prepared to look together with the Justice Council to see how the dialogue between the judiciary, the Chamber and the Cabinet can be strengthened? Justice and Security are currently preparing with BZK for the establishment of a State Commission functioning rule of law. That is the implementation of the Omtzigt/Van Dam motion, I think also from the January debate. As part of this preparation, the first informal meeting last Monday between representatives of the three state powers was held. I came out of a meeting when people were walking there. I was not supposed to be there, because here it really got very serious, and rightly so. That discussion will continue with a view to helping shape the task assigned to that State Commission. Ministers Ollongren and Dekker are working on this from the cabinet. I have just taken up Mrs Kat's question about whether I am open to contradiction and whether I see it as part of a new administrative culture. She referred to the project Loyale Opposite. She said she had trouble with the term "loyalty." I hate the word "loyalty" anyway. You must be loyal to the principles of the organization. In my party, we call that loyalty, but I think it's a terrible term. Anyway, let's forget the word "loyal"; we're going to see what to do with that term. In that project, the concept of loyalty to people, to your boss, is not meant to mean loyalty to the public business, from its own administrative professionalism. That way we can live with that term. That stuffing's all right. Of course, that's about any kind of contradiction from that professionalism. In my view, this is an incredibly important issue for the further development of a better administrative and administrative culture. In this context, the VVD asked what the cabinet would do so that civil servants could take independent decisions and have room for manoeuvre. You can see that decisions have been reversed after internal backspoke. For this cabinet, also learning from what we are discussing here today, executives have the task of supporting the work from the challenges by giving space and trust and by ensuring that the talents gathered in the teams come to their maximum. It's part of people's decision-making space, or you lose them. That is sometimes a problem, because as a civil servant you can be in a gap in the role of manager, political advisor and social partner. Sometimes you see that because of this gap and the political and administrative pressure there is not enough room for that professionalism. If we want to live up to our ambitions as a result of this terrible scandal, the child care allowance affair, then we need to find a better balance between the different roles of executives, including their political clients, including civil society organisations and citizens. If we want that to work, it can only be done by talking to each other, by conducting dialogue, by politically-official relations. That's what the Council of State advocated. The current cabinet, and hopefully the new cabinet, is trying in every possible way to assess the relationship between civil servants and ministers, between ministers and parliament, which is clear, but also between civil servants and parliament. This includes the whole dimension of the relationship with the execution. I have two images. Maybe I can make it a little more personal. First of all... When I worked at Social Affairs, after we made a law, we said against the execution, "Can you do that?" That was fine then, but I think you'd be doing it differently now. Maybe it'll be different now. I wouldn't know exactly. I think that policy intimacy, in order to use that terrible word, is much better between policy and implementation, but then we did so. Then we asked the social services through Divosa whether a change in the welfare law or in the social employment provision was feasible, instead of trying to withdraw implementation from the first moment in policy preparation. This should not be done in such a way that no one is at the window anymore. Not the whole execution needs to be there, but the people who can provide relevant input. I had a second image, but I've lost it now. But this image was so dominant that it replaced my second image. Mr President, this is in response to the questions about Awb and official professionalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u100	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u101	My question is about the Awb. I understand that a legislative amendment is being prepared, but it is not yet ready for consultation. It is legally complex, also in relation to other legislation. But right here, it went wrong with the supplemental affair. Then I'm talking about the Awb in relation to the Awir, for example. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Chamber could not be involved in this earlier. Otherwise, the Chamber will only be shown at the end of the journey. Then we are going to deal with the law, when this is not just about complicated legal discussions. This is really about the principles of good governance. Tell me, the right not to be humiliated. The substantive discussion and the dilemmas involved would be precisely by the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u102	Clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u103	... must be able to be judged and discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u104	Yeah, yeah, yeah, Here's what I'll do. The officials are listening. I'll do a check, because of course this is also on the premises of BZK but also of JenV. I want to avoid having an angry colleague from the Justice Department on the line later tonight if I say yes now, but I don't think so. So I will come back to that in the second term, but my tendency is to say yes. But then we also need to find a form that you might also say with some sort of design letter: this is what we are thinking about. It must not be the case that the Chamber does not see what we are going to do until the Internet consultation. That is actually what Mr Snels says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u105	It could be a kind of policy paper, including the dilemmas, but certainly not just the legal, complicated discussions but also what it means in practice for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u106	Yes. The complex thing here is that you involve the execution, the science, the justice. Nevertheless, there comes a time when you say: we are not finished, we are in a process. We're sending some kind of letter to the Chamber right now. Maybe I can translate it that way. But I'm going to ask you to listen very carefully to provide me with a Q&A so that I don't go there horribly on the beet bridge. But I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u107	The image that the Prime Minister has just outlined of this administrative professionalism and the way in which it is discussed is very appealing to me. I actually have two questions about that. What is the Prime Minister's view of the same relationship that the administration should have with the citizen? That's one. Two. The Prime Minister did indeed talk about more flexible use of the power of perseverance, based on confidence in the officials. That's very appealing to me, too. Could, to some extent, the citizens, as well as those affected, be given a certain degree of direction and perseverance, a terrible official term? Does he see opportunities or opportunities there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u108	In any case, I am sympathetic to that question. I'm just trying to translate that right now. Perhaps Van Huffelen can reflect on this from the practice of resolving this scandal that we are talking about today. It's so many people and it's so complex. Of course, you try to aggregate it through parent panels and discuss a lot of conversations. Van Huffelen herself goes all over the country and talks to a lot of individual victims, but she cannot speak to everyone, of course, because that group is so large. What is it now? All over 40,000 people, 43,000 people, who have reported, would all say "I want customization," then I think it's 2050. Then that will be done later than the emission-free production in the Netherlands. You don't want to. Maybe Van Huffelen can reflect on that. On the first question, I will simply say yes. If someone calls the government, it's essential to me that the phone gets answered, that you know who you're talking to, that you also hear when you get called back, and that if you don't get called back, you know who you can call to say, "Oh, you'd call me back in three days, or five days." It is therefore essential for me that it should be done in a very decent way. I had a very inspiring meeting with the five major implementation organisations the other day. You didn't think my ideas of governance that I presented here as group chairman go far enough, but they thought one of them was far too radical. It was just about how you can practically organize that. Forget about that, because that is a completely different discussion and a different role. But I would like to say here once again that I was impressed with the discussion with the people who are working on this and also with the top of the five largest implementation organisations in the Netherlands, the UWV, but also with the Tax Administration and others, how they are doing this and organising it. They realize that the government must have a face. If you call, a phone will be answered. Of course, you may also e-mail, or whatever you do, but if you contact us, you will receive an answer that is readable. I really learned that from the Ombudsman, from this one and from his predecessor. They have always told me that misery does not arise so much because the text is illegible, but because not even... that is often the problem. I'm not a lawyer myself, so I often don't understand. I now have the car tax written off automatically and then I also get a decision that I think: "Yeah, it's a little complicated. What are they gonna write off?" But in the end it turned out to be exactly right, which is very nice. More importantly, if you call with a complaint that you... It is of course much stronger if someone just calls you, is on the phone and asks: can I understand your complaint a little better? That type of normal human contact is essential. It also sometimes has to do with capacity and how many people there are. I think that is very important, because of course that also affects people's trust in the government. You can now see this with the GGD with the vaccination campaign, which gets a 9.3 as a figure. Why? Because you're being let in as a human being. You're being tortured for the kind of vaccine you need. You wait 15 minutes, and when you pass out, you'll be neatly caught. It's really done from a to z fantastic. That must be the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u109	Thank you for the fine examples. It is true that this desire is at least the same, namely 'the human measure in the administrative apparatus' and that there is also attention to how you do it. I also understand from the Prime Minister's reply that he sees opportunities in the power of perseverance and the direction of the parents themselves, in the affected people themselves, but that we should not go straight to 50,000 tailor-made cases or 50,000 directors. I understand, but it has to do with the way you look at this problem. Because there's another way to look at it. That's not the time, but I wanted to give you that. But I'm glad there's at least mental thinking space for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u110	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to go to his last block, the block of fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u111	Yeah, the last block. This concerns the terrible nature of discrimination, but also the way in which algorithms and AI applications are handled that lead to outcomes that are virulent and flagrantly contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution. As far as that affects the Tax Administration, we have, of course, already discussed this in January. As far as questions were concerned, Mrs Van Huffelen will deal with them as far as the surcharges are concerned. But perhaps I can say a few things on my part about that and answer a few questions about that. I'll start with a question to which the answer is no. Having a particular nationality or a dual nationality must never be a reason for fraud control. But that is not to say that this is the nuance of any discrimination on grounds of nationality. That's another question. I'm not talking about what happened at the IRS right now. Discrimination is, of course, about unjustified discrimination on the grounds of nationality, which is prohibited in the Netherlands, but there may also be justified discrimination, for example, access to certain benefits that are not open to people who are temporarily staying here. Think of the WW rights or welfare rights that people may or may not build. It is then necessary to register and process nationality, but there must always be a legal basis for this. This is just legislation and I do not think this is controversial. Or so, I see now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u112	Maybe I can ask the Prime Minister to finish this little block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u113	I'll do the whole block...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u114	Or would Mrs Simons like to comment on the issue of discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u115	I'm having trouble explaining it anyway. I'd like to understand it better. We can't make a distinction based on ethnicity. Did the Prime Minister use that word?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u116	Nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u117	Nationality. But it is there where special legislation is concerned. That's what's going to happen at the time, isn't it? We're not talking about making a distinction in equal cases, are we? If it turns out that distinction has been made in equal cases, then we are simply talking about discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u118	Yes, then an unjustified distinction has been made. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u119	So you just wanted, sorry, the Prime Minister just wanted to clarify that sometimes there is a justified distinction. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u120	The registration of nationality can be on its own, because then you can determine if someone... Take the vote. People build up voting rights after so many years. You may vote for municipal councils after so many years, but not if you are only two or three years in the Netherlands. I think you should be here five or seven years. For such things it may be necessary to register nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u121	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u122	Yes, I have therefore misunderstood that the example focused on the situation we are discussing, namely people who were entitled to child care allowance in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u123	No, no. I stand by this cup completely away from the childcare allowance. That goes all the way to Van Huffelen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u124	Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u125	I'm talking about the general questions here. That's really important, because I'm not going to risk it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u126	With regard to the use of nationality in risk profiling and law enforcement, the cabinet states that it believes that this should be possible, because I read that a general ban is undesirable here, because it allows them to protect certain victims of criminal offences. I don't understand. I've filed a motion several times not to. Last time together with colleague Van Weyenberg. Every time it is said: we cannot do it entirely, because in this case it can protect the victims. Why is that necessary? I don't understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u127	I have no idea. There is an official listening, so I will answer that question in the second term. I can answer Mr Snels' question on the AWB. We're gonna do that. We're gonna deal with it. I will ask my colleague Mr Dekker, the Minister for Legal Protection, to look very closely at the timing. So, where can this be in the process? I answered one question and then there is one question for the second term, namely: what is meant by that sentence in the progress letter? I have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u128	Maybe it'll be useful if the Prime Minister finishes his block first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u129	Yes, because Snels, Azarkan, Simons and others have talked about this. I would like to say in general that they have a very valid point. That makes sense, too. The question is ultimately: are there not unconscious and unintentional mechanisms in our legislation, our policies and our systems that are discriminatory? And that this means that control capacity is being used, I am abbreviated from the childcare allowance, because I do not have the latest state of affairs in the most vulnerable groups, which means that most errors are found in these groups and that this means that even more effort is being made to control those groups, creating a self-reinforced feedback loop, Mrs Leijten! I hear Mrs Leijten say a few things outside the microphone, but I will finish him off, because I think I would answer all the questions in this heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u130	The Prime Minister's gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u131	I had a few more questions. I agree that legislation and policies should not contain or call for unintended, discriminatory mechanisms. So that's it at that point. Then there was another question on this subject about the Dutch Data Protection Authority: does the AP still have too little budget? And Mr Snels asked why this was not finally taken seriously in the context of the reactions to the POK. The final budget required by the Dutch Data Protection Authority cannot be determined in advance. This is partly due to the uncertainties reported by the researchers in the framework of the previous year's budget research. For 2021, occasional funds were released so that this year the AP had a budget of almost 25 million euros. By letter of 1 March, the Minister for Legal Protection announced that any investment in the AP would require a number of more fundamental policy choices that might be for a subsequent cabinet. If that would take too long, we should of course take it. In principle, I think they can still be taken by the new cabinet in time. Then a question was asked about algorithms. The letter of 8 October 2019 from Mr Dekker and also on behalf of the Secretary of State for the Interior, which deals with guarantees against risks of data analysis by the government, including, recognises or also recognises the risk of indirect discrimination. Thus, when developing and applying algorithms, it is necessary to continuously consider whether there is direct or indirect discrimination. If it is known that there is indirect discrimination, for example through the use of postal codes, this should be corrected in the algorithm. This can be done, for example, by replacing the zip code with another variable or by not carrying the zip code at all. Anyway, that's all described in that letter from 2019. A question has also been asked about the ethical use of algorithms, including by Mr Snels. To determine whether the use of an algorithm takes place in an ethical way, it is of course assessed by law and regulation, which contains and safeguards values and fundamental rights. In addition to these laws and regulations, there are instruments such as directives, codes of conduct and hand-outs. For example, there are the Handreiking system principles for non-discrimination, a human rights impact assessment for algorithms, and the guidelines for algorithm use by governments. A starting point is the prevention of discrimination, for example by countering bias in data used. In addition, a lot of attention is paid to topics such as transparency and explainability of data and algorithm usage. Finally, the Klever/Plaumen motion. It calls for changes in eight parts, both in concrete policy and in administrative practice and in administrative culture. On a number of points we are talking about this, partly in connection with the Van Dam report on the child care allowance affair. On a number of other points, the directors are currently looking at how we can solve this in decision-making. That could be at the formation table. It may also be in the framework of the 2022 budget. Mr President, I think I have made a serious attempt to answer all the questions that do not lie directly in the area of the Minister or the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u132	Thank you. Let's do it in the order of the people who asked for an interruption. First of all, Mr Stoffer, then Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Leijten. Well, Mrs. Leijten, I'm giving you a lot of chance to keep interrupting. We'll do it in an orderly fashion. I think it is important that colleagues also have the opportunity. First of all, Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u133	I would, of course, like to thank the Prime Minister for answering many questions. I liked that he indicated that there had been a conversation with the top bosses of the five execution organizations. I think it is very important to talk about how to give a face to society. I'm glad that's a subject. For me, there is a second aspect to this and I wonder if that has been the case. I know I once stood there, when Menno Snel was still Secretary of State, and called on the people of the IRS: look in the mirror at night and see if you've done what was right for the people in society. I had a very hard mail back at night from someone from the IRS who said: yes, dear Chris, I want to, but my head is mowed off when I do something that doesn't quite fit those rules. I myself come from such a performance organization, Rijkswaterstaat. I'm not saying it was all easy, but there you had the opportunity to deliver a little customization. I used to say at the time, we do it in the spirit of Rutte. I didn't know what he was thinking. My question is: is this also the subject of conversation? Do people who are having the conversation, for example those businessmen, have I a little along the lines of what Mrs Leijten has mentioned, do I have enough mandate not to do the most crazy things, but to apply a little appropriate customization? I understand that the Prime Minister cannot say now that this is a good thing, but let that also please be the subject of discussion between the Prime Minister, the Cabinet and the heads of the executive services, so that it will see through in that culture. They must have a little room to do it as we as a Chamber want society to be dealt with and as I think the cabinet would like it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u134	That's what I'm getting from the heart. When it comes to the performance of the repair surgery surcharges, I think it would be good if Alexandra van Huffelen told us how they deal with it and what space there is. But the fundamental question is a question of culture and leadership. I have tried to answer it along two lines in my response to the Chamber. One is along the line how we deal with legislation, sectorally but also the Awb. How do you make sure that there is room for customization, that there is room to clearly avoid wrong situations? Let me take a new example: debt relief. How do you prevent people from reporting to debt relief because the person in the execution doesn't have the space to apply customization? Customization however means that you sometimes treat equal cases unequally, because you can't always cut it exactly with a pair of scissors. You're trying to prevent that, of course. Then you have to discuss intercollegially again: what do you encounter, what do I come across and what space is there? To take the example of debt relief: if you then have a conversation with someone and if a fine is stacked on a fine or the problem is not solved, the problem is only getting bigger, while perhaps with a small intervention from the person doing the execution, it is possible to solve the problem. The person in the execution must also be able to assess whether it is someone who is back there tomorrow because new debts have been incurred or whether someone, as is the case in almost 90% of the debt relief, has suffered from divorce, job loss, psychological problems. Because there is not enough room in execution, they are falling further away in those debts. You actually want to be able to distinguish in the execution between that 10% with a hole in your hand and that 90% that really is against his debt in debt. That is what I was just trying to argue when I said how we look at the legislation and what we are doing with cultural change in the government. Perhaps it is a good thing that Alexandra van Huffelen sketches something in a moment that applies very specifically to the surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u135	Thank you. Then Mr Azarkan van DENK. Then Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u136	In his reply, the Prime Minister is trying to put away what has happened over the past 12, 13, 14 years as a terrible accident. I find that difficult, because it plays much wider within the government. In a number of places, for example, the government does not deal with citizens' data. In addition to the fact that tens of thousands of parents and 70,000 children have been cut short and life has been made impossible, we also have a blacklist. After all, we don't even know why those people were on the list. We can't tell them, but they have experienced the consequences. They often don't know. We have seen that NCTV collects information and processes data without complying with the GDPR base. Also in the context of the corona app there were a lot of questions about this. I'm just trying to see if there's not a wide-ranging problem with how the government sometimes gets to work and later comes to the conclusion that she's broken the GDPR.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u137	When it comes to the corona app and the NCTV, Mr.Azarkan is really going too short. I'm just gonna park that for a minute, because that's really more nuanced. More generally, if he asks if we are sufficiently focused on each other, whether we are testing each other and how we can prevent a situation from developing of unconscious and unintended mechanisms, as I just outlined, then I have to say that he is of course right about that. That is exactly what we have to do. I do not believe that this is necessarily something in the time frame that he outlines, but it is, of course, a risk that every major government organization should be aware of. The most important thing is that in this country, whatever colour, belief, sex or sexual orientation you have, you are always treated by law without unjustified discrimination and that there is no discrimination against you. That is crucial, because otherwise you cannot build a safe society with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u138	Thank you. Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u139	I understand the latter. I fully endorse that. All I can see is that it's not. In practice, citizens are treated differently. Public administrations record information on the basis of which choices are made, which is later said to be inadequate. My question to the Prime Minister is whether we should turn it around. Shouldn't we check if it's in line with the GDPR before we capture and process information? And should the Data Protection Officer have something to say about that, rather than finding that the weather is not satisfactory afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u140	I can't tell exactly how that's going in the department right now. I would like to return to that in the second term, so that I can be briefed on the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u141	I just wanted to make the point that the Prime Minister blew very high off the tower at the start of the debate. He said I shouldn't talk about the human image and not say that people were being looked down on. But how could it have arisen that in this fraud hunt it was the poorest groups, in the poorest neighbourhoods, who were the hardest hit? That's something he literally says. That's got to do with it! If you read that from a magazine, but you want to throw it very far away from you at the beginning of the debate, then I see the double face in this debate. That is all I would like to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u142	I'm really gonna argue with that. It is again nonsense of Mrs Leijten. It's really two very different things. One is that with a big statement from the SP, believing in her own propaganda, she begs the whole cabinet to look down on people who are in trouble. The answer is: it is not. I still think it is a very wrong comment. The least she could have done is take that comment back. Here I am talking about a serious issue, namely how to prevent unknowing and unintentional mechanisms that are discriminatory in your legislation, your policies and your systems. That's really another matter. That's what you have to avoid with each other. That's incredibly difficult, so we need to keep each other on top of it. If it happens, it's serious. Of course, everything is aimed at preventing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u143	Mrs. Leijten, you have no more interruptions. You're really way through that. I give you the opportunity to make one final comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u144	Mr President, you are a political chairman and not a manager of the Chamber. If I'm losing my interruptions because the Prime Minister wants to take a break, fine. So be it. If my questions aren't answered, I'll just put them all in second term. If that's how you want to do it, that's how you want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u145	Mrs. Leijten, I'm going to interrupt you. I'm very sorry about this. We're really keeping track of the number of interruptions. You have far more than the other colleagues. I'll give you that. This is an important subject. But, frankly, I do not think it is right for you to say that I am not independent in this. I regret that, but I give you the opportunity to put a question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u146	Mr President, I did not even ask a question. Then it will be answered again that I only believe in my own SP propaganda. The Prime Minister is here all the time pointing out what the problem is. Then he says I put all kinds of things on this cabinet. I didn't say it was this cabinet's fault. I said the supplemental scandal isn't an incident. This is due to a prevailing human image in the political and administrative direction of this country. That's what I call the elite. That human image is looking down on ordinary people who are not successful. If you're a punk who needs benefits or benefits, you're either a profiteer or a potential fraud. Does the Prime Minister recognize this? That's how our arrangements are set up, I said. I didn't say anything. This is what the mp does on purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u147	I hear a question from you to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u148	Mrs Leijten is reading it again. That's not gonna make it any more fun. She's talking about the political and administrative "elite." She uses that horrible word, a Forum for Democracy word. It's a terrible word I don't have anything with, but I'm fine with it. Once again, Mrs Leijten and I made the agreement that we are always holding the debate with each other in the strongest possible terms. Then we'll both have the most fun in that, too. That's what we do here. But by what she says here, and I can't read otherwise if she just read this again, doesn't she mean that there is a political and administrative elite somewhere outside this Chamber? It's not weird that I think she means the leadership of the big parties, or the people in the cabinet who are allowed to run this? I'm throwing that far from me. It's not my human image, it's not that of my colleagues in the cabinet. I think it's really weird to put that on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u149	I think the Prime Minister just touched on something essential when he said, and I paraphrase: when the best intentions are designed algorithms in which assumptions that then "sneak down" on certain people... in which I think lies the answer to the question that Mrs Leijten is also trying to ask. If, in designing such algorithms, assumptions are made unconsciously, which are perhaps even more intrusive than conscious assumptions, there is a bias. I wonder if the Prime Minister will come to the conclusion that when he uses the word'so', as I do, there is a correlation in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u150	Yes. I'm just not saying that everything the government does comes about this way. We have Article 1 of the Constitution for a reason. That also affects the kind of country we want to be, in which everyone has every right to contribute to the Dutch dream, no matter where you come from, your skin color and all that other stuff, and without discrimination. We're just not going through that in this country. If that threatens to sneak into our systems, we have the task and the expensive duty of establishing it, tearing it out and saying: what has apparently gone wrong in that organisation or in that place in terms of culture? With this, you cannot conclude that there is some kind of general problem that everyone in this country who tries to take responsibility has this inherent in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u151	You're both really well through your interruptions. Mr Snels van GroenLinks. For the members: there will be a second term. We still have two rulers. I think we'd like a dinner break at a normal time, too. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u152	Still, about the data usage and the algorithms, and thus the unintended effect on discrimination. I think the Prime Minister should read out the frameworks, the rules and the standards for a reason. Because it's complicated. The same goes for the Chamber. Here is a relationship with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. This is about personal data and the Dutch Data Protection Authority has a role on our behalf to monitor it. They have one FTE to check algorithms. It's up to the government, but it's also happening in the market sector, just think of the Googles, to monitor that no crazy things happen and that there's no unintentional discrimination. Exactly there is the relationship between the budget and the possibilities for the watchdog in this field, the Dutch Data Protection Authority, and the use of algorithms in the government. Wouldn't it be better to intensify faster there? In my opinion, that task of the Personal Data Authority really needs to be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u153	The budget of the AP was 18.5 million in 2020 and 7.7 million in 2016. So that's more than doubled. If the AP apparently, but I don't know exactly, has one person who is talking about algorithms, then I would like to invite Mr Snels to have that debate again with the colleague for Legal Protection or the Secretary of State for the Interior, to see if there is still a possibility of recasting within the AP. Because what does one FTE cost in a budget for 2021, adding up all the other costs that they can use, to a total of almost 25 million euros? If you make it very expensive, with everything in it, it's $100,000. At the AP a lot of people work when I calculate it like this, are that there are about 250 so it should be possible to rearrange it a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u154	No, the point is: "But that debate may also come back to the budget or to the formation "that there is a bigger problem with the budget for the AP, for example because of GDPR legislation, which also has more and more demands in terms of money from the AP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u155	I realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u156	This affair has shown that an urgent problem has arisen very quickly that the AP has not been set up. Could I at least ask the Prime Minister to speak to his colleagues in the cabinet and inform us of the problem, including the AP? Don't increase it to the total budget, because I think it's really getting bigger, but see how we can strengthen that monitoring role on the use of algorithms. We cannot rely solely on the rules, standards and frameworks used within the departments. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u157	I'm gonna protect myself a little bit in terms of workload by solving it like this. Through the report of this sitting, I note that Mr Snels and I have wondered with some surprise why apparently I cannot check it now, but I trust that Mr Snels is right in saying that only one person within the AP deals with algorithms. Colleagues who are talking about the AP must realise that they must have an answer to this the next time they meet Mr Snels here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u158	Mr Van Raan has a short question that had remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u159	Thank you for your coulance. The Prime Minister says that discrimination is not really at issue, at least not on the scale claimed by Mrs Leijten, Mrs Simons and Mr Azarkan. One of the conclusions in the report why it went wrong was that there was discrimination? Then you have to address that, don't you? Does the Prime Minister at least agree with the Animal Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u160	Sure, I couldn't agree more. Mrs Van Huffelen is going to go into that in a moment. Of course, terrible things have been said and there has been discrimination and inappropriate language, such as the term 'nest Antilleans'. At some point there was also the term "blacks," but later it turned out to be a name and not what we feared. But "nest Antilleans" is not a last name; that is clearly discriminatory and inappropriate language in all respects. Unfortunately, there are more examples. Again, for the childcare allowance, my colleague, the Secretary of State, can specifically address this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u161	This brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's first term. I suggest we have a dinner break until 7:45 p.m., then we go to the Secretary of State and then the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u162	I would ask Members to take their seats again. The Minister of Finance is also on his way. The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the report by the parliamentary interrogation committee on childcare allowances. I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery, as well as the Members of Parliament and the governors. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u163	Thank you, Mr President. The report on unprecedented injustice that we are discussing today, of course, shows very clearly that what has happened is terrible. It should never have happened, and it shouldn't have happened again. It gives us the expensive duty to recover, financially, but also in other ways as has been discussed today in the debate, to learn lessons about how we deal with citizens and how we work together and, of course, also to look at the system of allowances. On the basis of the questions asked, I would like to propose that we reply in three blocks. I shall begin with the subject of the past, so the essence of the report, what has happened and also the documents recently sent to the Chamber. Then I have a block about recovery, so the recovery operation, the recalibrate and so on. Then I have a piece on what is still going on today, improvements and the future. I'll start with the block about the past. I shall start with the question put by Mr Grinwis, Mr Snels and Mr Van Dijk on the ADR report that I have recently sent you. How do I look at what's in the report? That report, of course, is mainly about design/greater debt, how it originated, about the friendly debt restructuring and used selection mechanisms. The essence is that what happened is very bad and also very ugly. The report shows that citizens were given the qualification set-up/greater debt, and we also say "frauder" and no access to friendly debt restructuring. For reasons of efficiency, different limits have been applied in granting them. Moreover, the selection work was often done by employees who were not adequately trained and did not have sufficient frameworks. There were also insufficient internal controls. In other words, in many ways people were wrongly labeled "frauder" and were not admitted to friendly debt restructuring. What is important, of course, is to ensure that this cannot happen again. We have also taken all kinds of measures. We have made sure that label is no longer given. We have invested a lot in training and we have improved internal control. Not least in our recovery law, Mrs Leijten, we mentioned last year that someone who wrongly got the qualification set-up/greater debt has not been given access to a personal payment scheme or the friendly debt relief is being compensated by us. So we have included these possibilities in our recovery arrangements. As far as the other supplements are concerned, I have a further discussion with your Chamber about how we are setting up the recovery arrangements. It is important that there too unjustified o/gs, where false intent/great debt played a role, are included in the repair. Then I shall continue with Mrs Leijten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u164	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u165	Thank you for the explanation and the investigation. I have a very practical, specific question about these other supplements. €5,000 debt, automatically o/gs, that goes with other supplements about people with very low incomes in very big problems. We did not know that last week when we talked about the dilemmas in the compensation arrangements for the remaining surcharges. I can just imagine, I don't know how big the group is, that we need to be wider here in the compensation scheme. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include this new information, especially with regard to the new surcharges, explicitly in the drafting of the new compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u166	We will. We actually said in that compensation scheme: there are two options. We can compensate on the basis of 30% or 130% in the situations we are talking about here, so biased action or an unjustified o/gs qualification. We are going to develop them both and show them to your Chamber, where, of course, the 130% regulation in relation to those o/gs can play a role in the question: how can you be generous in this? So we have those two options next to each other. We're gonna work them out next to each other, and then we're gonna talk about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u167	It's also your last question, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u168	Sure, but they were both lump sums, while in the end we also have the route to the actual damage. I do not know, but I can just imagine that with this, perhaps very limited, group with a debt higher than €5,000, the actual damage has ultimately been higher. Then I think that the Secretary of State should consider whether the 30% or the 130% is sufficient for this, perhaps limited, group of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u169	That's what I'm gonna do. I have to reply briefly, was the request, so I will not go on for too long. But I'm sure I'll take that. I shall go to Mrs Leijten's question. It was about the all-or-nothing approach in the Awir, the law on the basis of which the surcharges are granted. That is a discussion that we have had a few times in this Chamber. The question now is: how did the Tax Administration do the interpretation that he did, namely to deal very strictly with that "all or nothing"? How is it that this explanation has been settled over and over again, in court cases and in the Council of State? Whether or not that was in the law, what happened, is that that interpretation was used. That interpretation was also under discussion for a long time, but has not changed until 2019, when the Council of State decided to reverse it. So it is incredibly sad to see that this has been a practice for so long. It was the practice that people chose to get people really into trouble in this way. In fact, in some cases, parents who have fallen victim to that all-or-nothing nature of the law must pay back a whole year's fees for a minor error and sometimes several years in succession. This has led to people sometimes getting into more trouble than by, for example, being the subject of a CAF investigation. Of course, we also take this into account in our recovery arrangements. I shall then turn to Mr Nijboer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u170	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mrs Inge van Dijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u171	You are talking about legislation and how it has been drafted. Maybe it is not entirely affected, but it is, I think, because Omtzigt and Van Dam have tabled a motion on the state committee and its elaboration, and how important it is who is in it. Any closer eyes on that? Or can't you answer that question? At least I missed the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u172	We'll check it out for the second term. I don't have it in my package, but we'll get back to it in the second term. Mr Nijboer asks how it is possible that the rulers did not notice that the rule of law was being violated and that nothing happened. I think it is quite clear that in the POK study it was discussed that there was, of course, a whole set of causes. It wasn't just the Tax Administration; there were other causes that played a role. But, of course, it's terribly painful. And what I find so extremely important is that we, whatever law we are dealing with, are going to carry out the actions we have put in place. I also think that, for example, the issue of the hardness clause and the even more important issue of'make us much more in touch with the people about who' help us to make better legislation. We must also take into account the question of what exactly is going wrong in the implementation process. So it's about listening to parents in the case of the childcare allowance and listening to other citizens in other forms of implementation. I think that's one of the most important things to keep an eye on. Then there was the question you asked about discrimination. We have, of course, had that subject examined by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. He's got a hard-on report on that. It has also indicated that there has been discrimination within the Tax Administration. Of course, we have said that this should not have been done at all and that it should not have been done. We'll do everything we can to make sure it doesn't happen again. Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union asked why the government always goes to court to plead an unjust case. That is something that has certainly happened in the problem of supplementing. We have seen that we continued to conduct legal proceedings, often because we thought we were right or because we wanted to be right, but that certainly led to very poignant situations. We do not always see the possibility for ourselves to deviate from the law, but of course we do, and that is why these hardness clauses are so important in the future. What I also think is important is that the Tax Administration should look closely at procedures and court cases to see how we can ensure that we do not try to reach a settlement at the very last moment with the citizen or the company concerned, but rather to see how we could do it earlier. After all, it's nice for no one to have to go through a long journey with the judge to get you justice. Mr Azarkan asked if the victims could ever trust the government again. That is, of course, a difficult question, because it is true that many people's trust has been greatly damaged. I can see that myself in the conversations I have had and which I will have with the parents in the coming period. In the meantime, I've spoken to about 400 parents one-on-one. I just find it very difficult for them to trust the government. Even if they have a nice and pleasant relationship with their business manager, they often "see first and then believe." I think that is why it is so important for the recovery operation, especially when we find that this is still difficult, that we listen carefully and that we provide the parents with the help they need. The subject of healing has been discussed this evening, and that is also important. Widening aid is necessary, but we must not promise things that we cannot live up to. That too has been discussed before today. We really need to make sure that what we promise does actually happen. In the POK report we have described in detail what we want to do for the government in a broader sense. Mrs Leijten asked: does the Secretary of State agree that the provision of information to the parliamentary committee of inquiry was not good and that there were far too many follow-up claims? We have tried from Finance to give as much information as possible as we could, but it had to be with a lot of pressure, because there was little time. On the basis of the progress that has been made, we have tried to answer the committee's questions as effectively as possible. The committee, like Mrs Leijten, has indicated that this has not always been possible. This can be partly due to the quality of our own information. That is certainly a subject that has a role to play. It may also be that we didn't have enough time to deliver everything on time. I know we've done after deliveries, so it took time to turn things in at a later date. It is important that we place all the information we find and all the information we are about to find at our information point. We have a special place for everyone on the web. We are also going to make sure that everything that has been painted in the old way is painted in the new way, so that everyone can see what has happened as transparently as possible. I think it is certainly right to consult each other on exactly what we need and how we can best meet the information requests in the context of future requests for information, for whatever research. We have done our utmost, but I know that we could not supply some information until late and sometimes very late. Mrs Leijten asked about the Wob documents to be delivered at the request of RTL and Trouw. I sent a letter to the Chamber today about that. The next item is the debate. There's an original Wob request that dates back to a while ago. These were notes with attachments that initially did not emerge. That turned out to be a mistake on our part. Objections have been made by RTL and Trouw, not so much in response to that omission as in general. Then we assigned the pieces and we searched for pieces to give to Trouw and RTL. But I think it's important, because we're also saying something about that in that letter, that we're going to talk to Trouw and RTL to see if it's true that we gave all the information or that there are still pieces missing. We think we have given and provided everything, but it is important to check with those who have made the Wob request. Because we very much want to be complete in all our information deliveries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u173	A question from Mr Edgar Mulder, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u174	Yeah, actually about the previous case, about the honest and sincere archiving of all the pieces. I'd love to believe it, but what did we just go through? I need to put it in a timeline. In June 2019 a lot of people together decided not to archive the memo-Palms and not to put it in Digidoc. A lot of coincidences put that out at some point. But in the meantime this memo didn't appear in timelines, Donner didn't get it, nor did the ADR. In the end, on 15 June 2021 we will be told that. The Secretary of State, who now says that she is going to archive everything neatly, then says, a few weeks ago, that it was right that that memo was not archived, because, I quote: the request not to archive the memo now was intended to allow a pure reconstruction of the follow-up of the memo. Mr. Chairman. My question is actually: if the Secretary of State is okay with things not being filed, with a really good thought, but also really bullshit story...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u175	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u176	Then how can she seriously tell us that she's gonna do it honestly from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u177	What I have said is that we are doing everything we can to ensure that you get the information we have open and transparent, but that there is a problem, namely the quality of our own information, our own systems and our own archives. As far as the question you have asked is concerned, we have had a wide-ranging debate on it. I've also sent you information about it. I indicated in the letter what the information I received from the employees who were involved at the time. I have also indicated that PwC is still investigating specifically that period, what happened in it, what pieces were then used, understood, etc. by whom were delivered, used, and so on. If it's okay, we can talk about that report in September. But if you're asking me if it's my intention to make this a dramatic improvement, yes, it is. I think the Minister will discuss this later. Of course, we want to ensure that our information is such that if we want to look back, we still know exactly what has been going on and what has been going on. The POK letter states that we have agreed on this, namely that we are going to provide much more information on debates, notes, laws, etc. since 1 July a few days ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u178	I'm trying to listen carefully. Does the Secretary of State say very carefully that she actually only has the function she has, defends the decisions of the officials of the time, but that she actually agrees with us that this was just a vulgar cover-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u179	I indicated in the letter exactly what the information I had and that I have no reason to doubt the information I received. I also said that we have a research report in progress and that it is a good thing that this e-mail correspondence is part of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u180	And then listening carefully again, I hear that you are actually saying that you are going to do things differently and better from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u181	What I have said is that we have to do differently and better, and that is not only for the Ministry of Finance, it is to ensure that we have our information system in such a way that we can deliver when necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u182	Thank you. I'll take a look at the MPs. This is an appropriate point for some of them. A number of Members of Parliament are through their interruptions, as I have said a few times. But I would like to give a few MPs the opportunity to ask one actual question, perhaps in cooperation with each other. Mrs. Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u183	After all, I asked whether the committee of inquiry was given everything that was later provided in the Wob. For example, I mentioned the report of the Donner Committee in a draft form, with the notes of Snel. 'Cause if we had, we'd have had another interrogation. But also the apps and the texts, that traffic from the ministry didn't come at all. We've had that from Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u184	To answer the question whether you have had everything: we have given everything we could find on the basis of the questions you have asked. Will it be so that any information can come up? That's for sure. That question about the apps and the texts will answer the minister, but we will deliver everything we can. You're asking me if you're ever gonna come up again. We've seen that happen in recent times. That could be the case, but information has not been deliberately held or held back. We delivered what we could put our hands on at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u185	Mrs Leijten and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u186	But why does the parliamentary interrogation committee, when it comes to drawing up documents and having to ask and mention it all on a draft of Donner's report without any notes, and is this given four days before the presentation of the report in a Wob procedure? That is what the Secretary of State should want to know: why does it work like that in my ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u187	I'll check that out for you, because this is new information for me. I'd like to return to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u188	I have a question about the provision of information and, in particular, about the dossiers. We read in the progress report that very few files have actually been provided to people who have requested them. Now the Minister of Finance has taken it on for a while ago, and I am talking about a year and a half ago in order to provide a lot of files. One of the first things reported by the Ministry at the time is: that's not gonna work for a while; that's not gonna be easy. Now there are a lot of parents who would like to have that, because they know what has been said and written about them and what has been recorded about them. It's part of that healing process that you get an insight into. How can the Minister speed this up and respond to many parents' desire to share these files in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u189	We've agreed two things for that. The first is that we have expanded the group of people working to collect those files. It's just a lot of work. About nineteen systems require this information from parents to be gathered together. That needs to be arranged in a proper way, so that a parent can really do something with it. Part of that information needs to be painted, especially when it comes to information about others or, for example, the names of employees who are not at the level of director or higher. That's a huge job. It's often about multomaps or files full of information. You've seen it with parents, I think. So scaling up is one thing. The second is that we also contact parents with the question: what are you specifically looking for? In particular, it is also about the following. If anyone asks for his file, they'll get everything they need. Some people say: I just want the childcare allowance; as far as I am concerned, nothing went wrong, so let it be. Or they say: I want to have specific years, so not all the pieces of the ten years that I received that supplement, but only the years that I think have gone wrong. That's what we're looking at. By the way, it is always possible for parents to request everything, even at a later date. But that often helps to give someone the information that's there faster. I notice that the need of parents for those documents is also variable. Some people are looking for the information that Mr Azarkan indicates, namely what has been written about them, or what kind of correspondence that is. Others are specifically looking for decisions, for decisions on objections, or for information they say: I am convinced that I have delivered them; I have also sent it three times and I want to know whether or not it is in the Tax Office at all. So these questions are very different, but you are very right: people should just get them. We must ensure that we also move forward on that front. Then there is Mr Azarkan's question about the practice sessions for witnesses. That's about the interrogation of the POK. Being interrogated under oath is for a lot of people quite an impactful event, especially for people who do not experience or may never have experienced that kind of interrogation. It is from our good employership that we have offered those practice sessions, to make people get used to the setting and to ensure that people could tell their story well. But as far as we are concerned, there has been no question, not even expressly, of any direction in terms of substance. I think we would do that again in another situation. I can also tell you my personal experience with that. I've been asked for a survey from Rotterdam City Council. There too I had a training session and that helps, because it helps you to tell your story well and also to make sure that you give answers that people can understand and what they can work with. Then there is Mrs Leijten's question about the CAF team, namely whether it is true that it still exists. No, that CAF team has been disbanded and the work of the CAF team has also been discontinued. Then there is Mrs Leijten's question about code 1043. That is a specific subject that you have also discussed before, under Secretary of State Vijlbrief, my colleague. An increased risk report was selected through 1043, in order to correct errors. There are also things that have happened that do not make it clear how citizens have been affected. In his letter of 31 March, Secretary of State Vijlbrief explained that the section protecting citizens from errors was again turned on. We await further the use of this code 1043, with the rest of the components, until the data protection options are worked out. Then I go to another question from the SP, by Mrs Leijten, about an employee................................................................................................................................................................................................... You asked if this employee has ever been thanked at all and if goodbye has been made. You know that the starting point is that we do not make statements about individual employees, but in this case, in the debate of 4 July 2019, my predecessor, Secretary of State Snel, promised that this employee would be fully rehabilitated. In consultation with the employee, we discussed how this could be done in a good way. This has led to a solution in which the person concerned could agree. In November 2019, agreements were made on this subject and they were also agreed. An explicit apology has also been made by the Tax Administration. The employee concerned would like to leave the issue behind, I understand, and focus on the future. Then I will go to D66's question about the data on double nationality and the possible sanctions of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I was just talking about that report the AP made. The AP has not yet taken an enforcement decision. A report has been produced and we have responded to it, but no final decision has yet been taken. That is what we are waiting for. In doing so, I think I have answered the questions about the past and I go on to the block about recovery and recalibrate. I shall begin with Mrs Kat's question. She asked: which case or parent has hit you the most or which one has made the most impression? I told you, I've talked to about 400 parents, one-on-one. Tomorrow I'll go to Rotterdam, talk to parents again. I must tell you quite frankly that it never gets used to, because almost every story is poignant and serious. People have been through a lot and are very much affected by the fact that they have gotten into trouble by the Tax Administration, and especially the aftermath is, of course, enormous for them. In addition, there is a great diversity in parents. Some people have had to pay relatively little, are still incredibly angry and think that they really need to be compensated.That's what we're going to do, of course. There are also parents who have suffered terrible consequences. We all know them: people who have lost their jobs, people whose children have been placed out of their homes and people who, sometimes in combination with illness or other things, have lived a life that is not at all what they had imagined. It is, of course, particularly important for these parents to look not only at financial compensation in the recovery, but also at much wider help to ensure that their problems are addressed as much as possible. So I'm really having a hard time picking out one parent. I also notice that I am deeply affected not only by what has happened, but also by what consequences it has had and not least by the fact that people have been affected in our society who, because of all kinds of circumstances, did not have the resilience to stand up for themselves, to fight for themselves, and for whom the system is too difficult. As I said at the beginning, it is our expensive duty to help them very well and very comprehensively, but also to think about how we deal with the system, because it was too complex for many of them to be able to cooperate in any way, whereas those bonuses are intended for people who generally have lower incomes. I am happy to say a few things about the recovery operation, because many of you have gone into it. A great deal has happened over the past year and a half. We didn't just make the recovery arrangements last year around this time. We have also seen that some 21,000 parents are entitled to recovery. We paid most of them. We also know that a lot more parents have come forward than we ever thought. We are already almost 43.000 parents, 33.000 of whom have reported in the last six months. On the one hand, it is good to see that people seem to have confidence, that they know how to find us, that they know how to reach us and that we can help them, but that also means that we have a huge challenge. It is also good to know that we are going to do two things apart from recalibratement. One is that we continue to implement the Catshuis Scheme to ensure that anyone who reports to us will be told within six months whether or not he or she has been duped according to our information. If someone is hurt, which is the case in 60% of cases, then he or she gets €30,000, the debts are stopped, paused and forgiven, and he or she can use an extensive aid kit from the municipality. We're gonna do that for everyone anyway. Apart from that, we will continue with the integral assessments. We have been delayed in doing so, but we have also promised to make up for this delay by the end of the year. The fact that we still have a big issue is also clear. This is mainly due to the large group of people who reported to us in the spring. That's good, because most parents in that group really need compensation, but that also presents a huge challenge. We're gonna do that recalibrate, too. Many of you have spoken about this. This review is about increasing the pace and allowing us to distinguish more between the different ways in which we help parents. We know that some are very happy with a short and quick treatment. Other parents would like to take their time with us and the personal businessmen. That's what we're gonna work on. We have also received ideas from the National Ombudsman. That's what we're gonna do. Meanwhile, we continue to carry out the Catshuisgeleding and the integral assessments. As the Prime Minister has pointed out, I am extremely proud of all the teams and staff involved in the recovery operation. I think it's good that we're still hearing a lot from people about where things don't go well. We must work very hard to restore this, but fortunately we also get many reports from parents who are very happy that they have been helped, that they have received recognition, that they know that they are not a fraud, that they are out of the financial problems and that the municipality can help them well, which I am also very happy with. So together with a lot of parties, we're going to do that review and we're going to make sure that in that complicated dilemma of "careful and fast" we really help people, as Mr Van Raan said. At the same time, we must not delay too much. I'll be right back to the specific questions. Mr Grinwis, Mr Nijboer, Mrs Simons and Mr Idsinga asked questions about the review. Many of you have indicated that you want to include as many people as possible in redesigning the process. Motions have also been tabled for this this morning. That's what we're gonna do. At the same time, we must also realise that we are talking about a lot of parents, including parents who sometimes need a lot of help and time, and that we also want to do it carefully with each other. So I would also like to be a little vigilant about the idea that we are going to find some sort of golden solution that will allow us to help a huge number of people in a few months' time. So I continue to think it is really important that we maintain the Catshuis scheme, because it at least ensures that people know whether they are hurt or not, that they have an amount and that they get out of debt. I think that is an important first step, after which we can take the time to do the same. I'll be right back on the pilots we're doing. Then there is the point made by some of you, namely by Mr Grinwis, Mr Nijboer and also Mr Stoffer: do not make promises that you cannot promise. I'd love to, but it's kind of hard, too. Because very often your Chamber also asks for deadlines, when it is ready and when and so on and so on. That's what the parents often ask. I understand that, but I also understand your message very well. So it is extremely important that we ensure that we take the time we need and that we do not promise things that we cannot deliver. Mr Stoffer also made the point that the Catshuis scheme will help people who are poignant later. That is expressly not the case. So we're gonna keep running that Catshuis scheme next to the integral reviews. Anyone who is in an acute or poignant situation is helped by us before. We specifically take into account in our current planning that we can use about 15% of our capacity for people who are very distressing or in an acute situation. Mr Van Raan asked if I could make sure that parents get six weeks' rest. That too is complicated, because some parents do not want peace at all. They want to be helped further and as quickly as possible. But it is true for people who say to a business manager: I do not want to have contact in the summer, I need a moment of rest. Of course the pause button applies. So there's no bailiff on the sidewalk with parents. As far as that happens, we're going to work to make sure that's stopped. But if a parent asks, then if we can do that, we'd like to keep that in mind. At the same time, there are many people who want to go ahead and use the summer to complete the recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u190	You too have a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u191	Certainly, a short question and perhaps also the saving of a motion. If I listen to the Secretary of State properly, the parents can report themselves: don't bother me for a moment. But it may also be that during that period things happen that the businessman knows the parents want to know very much, for example when it comes to the decision et cetera. If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, that flexibility is already there. Parents are therefore entitled to state that and can do so with a perseverance power of their own. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u192	Yes. They can say: I would like my business manager not to contact me temporarily; I do not contact him or her either, because I want the trial to stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u193	Let me confirm that this also means that nothing is moving, that no deadlines are going to expire and that they are going to get into trouble again, or that the debts... Of course, you don't want that kind of effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u194	This concerns the individual situation. It's not gonna be like we're gonna say, okay, but then your term's up. That would, of course, make no sense, but it may be that something is already going on and so on. I just think that should be considered in the individual situation. When someone says, "I don't want to think about this subject, I want to think about it on vacation or just don't think about it," as far as I'm concerned, that's always possible. Mr Van Raan also asked whether our approach was not still motivated by a deep-seated distrust of citizens. I am touched that you say that, because if there is one thing we do not want, then citizens are suspicious. We just want to work from the parent's story. We want to work on the questions a parent has. We want to make sure they're properly tested. Still, I can see what you're saying when we're talking about healing. This is a discussion we had with the professor of mediation, with the parent from the parent panel and with a number of others. They said: sometimes, for a parent, it still seems very much like they end up in some kind of system. It's not nice for some parents, it's not pleasant. That doesn't feel right and doesn't give us the right idea of what to do. I think that's exactly where we are within the framework... We are now carrying out a few pilots that we call "meaning recovery." So we're looking from a different perspective. We start with the story about what a parent needs. Our system world, which is also needed, after all, we have to implement a law, look at things, calculate things and so on, and so on, and so on, moving a little more into the background, so that someone does not have the idea that there is still some sort of straitjacket. But that has nothing to do with mistrust. This has something to do with the difference that sometimes exists between the systems, the world of the systems in which we find ourselves, and the need of parents, where time and healing are important, and for which sometimes not the financial things first have to be solved, but the other things first. Then there is Mrs Leijten's question about the pilot treatment in one day. Those pilots have started. And we're going to see if we can actually judge a parent in one day. By the way, it's still quite complicated. So we are doing this besides the pilots meaningful recovery, because of course there is work to be done in front of us, but we also need to ensure that the chains close properly. That is what we are doing by internally ensuring that this treatment can work in one day. Because a businessman who looks at the case sometimes also needs colleagues who have to look at or figure out things, who have to look for pieces together or make calculations, who have to do things like that. We're tying that up. So we're testing that treatment in one day. We're going to do that in the municipality of Rotterdam. I think that's very nice and good, because then we'll do it together with the municipality. Rotterdam is the municipality with the largest number of parents who have so far reported. I know from the latest data that there are about 5,800, but maybe there are even more. Then there is Mr Van Raan's question about the doubling of living allowances for parents under control. We talked about that this morning. There are many forms of governance. In some cases, parents have fallen into debt because of the problems with the childcare allowance and now have a debt regime. In principle, that regime can be completed at the moment that we have settled these debts completely. It may also be the case that parents are under protection, where the canton court has decided that it is better for someone that they do not have their own finances at their disposal. This can sometimes also be the result of the childcare allowance. That rule may not therefore have to be continued in all cases, but of course that is what the canton judge is about. However, it is important that a ruling has been made by the Association of Judge Commissioners, the Recofa, to give parents as directors the opportunity to spend their money or to spend part of that amount. I very much support that, too. It would not be good for parents to continue with the lives of a few tens a week, while a large amount of money is available for them to use. That is why I am going to say this morning, in consultation with the directors' associations, to make sure that this is done properly. They sometimes found it difficult to understand exactly how that debt cancellation works, and whether there would still be a debt problem if they gave the money. Well, we've got to take care of that, too. Then there was Mrs Simons' question, also in connection with the debate she had with the Prime Minister, on the subject that is more necessary for recovery than just that financial. You are right: we do not compensate, we give people back the money they have wrongly paid to us. We put all kinds of raises on that. Of course we'll pay back interest. As part of the recovery operation, everyone gets 25% material compensation in addition to intangible compensation. Anyway, that's the financial part of the story. In fact, when it comes to recovery, much more is needed in many cases. This varies from recognition as a duped, recognition as a non-frauder to most parents think that this is really very important to psychological help, help in finding a job or training, help in caring for children, and more of that kind of subject. That could be called harsh issues, but the subject that Mr Van Raan and you have included in a motion for a resolution is about making that whole. Making whole sometimes also means having a conversation with someone from the Tax Administration about how this could have happened and above all: how can you ensure that it never happens again? I met a lot of parents who said: I hate that this happened to me, I think it's okay that I'm being compensated for that financially now, that I'm getting that money back, but I'd like to be sure that it never happens again, because this is so bad that I don't want this to happen to anyone. That is the kind of conversation we can have. I also find it incredibly important, because there are only two things that are central: really helping people and ensuring that they can regain some confidence in their government. I realize that a journey like this takes time. This means that you are often talking to a parent for a long time and that sometimes it is about long-term help. Mrs Simons mentioned a number of things about parents she had spoken to. That's often about long journeys. It's not: we have one chat, we sit down with you for one day and then it's over. By the way, there are also parents who are okay with that. The variety is huge. I think I have answered Mr Van Raan's question about helping individual parents. That's about healing. Then there is Mr Stoffer's question which I received from the Prime Minister. Can people get a little more direction or perseverance? I think that's the question you asked. That is actually what we want to look at in the context of the review this summer. We notice that it is unpleasant for parents to become part of a kind of system with steps and steps on our side. For many parents it is very good and nice to get more direction about the process and about what needs to be done. We also see parents who say: do me some sort of computer program, then I fill in the so-called way as you fill out the tax return which seems to me to have happened and then I can calculate it myself. If you're okay with it, it's okay. That's about people looking at that financial side in particular. We'd like to get on that trajectory. We want to look at that further. We also discussed this other way of looking this morning to award compensation for Mr Grinwis' motion. We're gonna get to work on that. Again, the ideas about recovery and recovery are broad. We're gonna pick up the review of that. We're gonna take a good look at what we can do. The municipalities are involved and other state services are watching and helping. I hope to come to your Chamber as soon as possible with a good proposal. I told you this morning, we're really gonna take our time. And in the meantime, we're just gonna keep working. Then I'll go to my block about the present and the improvements in the surcharge system. I shall begin with a question from Mr Idsinga on the question of people who get a halfway job or who get a higher income and then have to pay back the supplements for the first six months. The Lodders/Van Weyenberg motion has been tabled on this issue and on other issues relating to the present supplement system. I have sent you a letter on this subject with a whole list of bottlenecks. We have inventoried some of these bottlenecks ourselves, some of them come from the Chamber and some of them we have picked up from various organizations. That letter also describes the situation you describe as a bottleneck. It may indeed be very unfortunate that, if you first studied for a while and had to deal with low income and then go to work, you would have to pay back, or a large part of it, from the first half of the year or part of the year you were not yet at work. That is not a very easy issue to solve. I would almost say 'your predecessor', but I do not know if I can say so, because she has said a few times on this point that it is really at the heart of the system. The system is based on what you earn in a year and determines on that basis whether or not you can get a supplement. However, we would like to see how, while we are still talking about the current system, we are also talking about changing the system by providing services to avoid the negative consequences as much as possible. It is a good thing that we are going to have a debate with each other in response to this letter with all these bottlenecks. I do not know if that is planned, but we should certainly plan it because it is good to look at it again, also in connection with improvements to the system in the short term and what is needed for a more profound, greater change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u195	There is a question from Mr Idsinga, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u196	Thanks to the Secretary of State. I understand that this is a big problem. Nevertheless, I would certainly like to respond to your commitment to speak about this very quickly. I think that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u197	I see the Secretary of State nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u198	Yeah, that's fine. Sorry, I have to say something. I think it is good to talk about the integrity of that letter, because there are a lot of bottlenecks, solutions and ideas in it. Next to Mrs Kat's question on the recommendation of the National Ombudsman on the single parent head and the linking principle. Because of the linking principle in the Awir, the law on the basis of which payment is made, families whose partner has no right of residence are not entitled to benefits. The Ombudsman drew attention to the impact of the linking principle on families whose children do have a residence status or Dutch nationality. In the bill of the Ministry of Social Affairs, a collective law, a proposed exception to the child-related budget is included for families. We have reported this to the National Ombudsman and the measure has also been mentioned in the same letter of Parliament we spoke about in response to the Lodders/Van Weyenberg motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u199	A question from Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u200	On the previous point. What's in the quick fixes in the supplement system? Are these measures already, for example 90% of the advance? I do believe that such measures are being looked at, but are we also looking at internal work instructions, at manuals, for example, when and for how long there will be reappearances if, according to the Tax Administration/Applications, someone does not have health insurance and then, for the sake of safety, without having responded, the care allowance is stopped or if, for other reasons, supplements are stopped? In such procedures, a lot of uncomfortable outcomes have emerged over the past 15 years, starting from 2005 or 2006.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u201	Once again, I think it is a good thing that we talk about this separately. This letter not only lists the legal or technical solutions, but also what we can do with services and such topics. I think it's a good thing we're looking at that letter together and going through it. On the basis of a very wide inventory and extensive conversations, which Wouter Koolmees, Kajsa Ollongren, Tamara van Ark and I have had on this subject with a lot of industry organisations, we have looked at what should be better. There are several themes: legislative changes, more things in the sense of implementation, themes that have more to do with services. I suggest we come back to that. Mrs Leijten asked whether it was true that Supplements still send letters to people that they have to pay back shares or even pay back everything if they do not deliver information quickly. Of course, we need information from citizens in order to establish the right to a supplement. It may be that, if someone has not yet made data available, we ask for data to be transmitted. That could be a year's worth. We try to pick that up as much as possible at day care, but if there isn't, we ask the parents. If that information is not provided, a parent will be reappelled. If this does not ultimately lead to information, a surcharge may be recovered. That's the way our law works right now. In the past, this has happened without the burden of proof and without reappearance and so on, and that is why we have got into this problem. We are dealing with this differently at the moment. If there are situations in which you do not believe that this is the case, I would like to hear it, because it is our utmost effort to establish, as far as possible, the right to allowances, the childcare allowance in this case, with information that we receive, for example, from childcare organisations. Of course, we also use the information we have when it comes to income. On the contrary, we want to make those letters more pleasant, more often rappelle and give people the opportunity to deliver information to us in all kinds of ways. Then there is Mrs Leijten's question about objection procedures and whether we want to deal in an accessible way with the people who use surcharges. I think that was also about the Tax Administration in general. Of course, we want us to be an accessible and accessible organisation. We have attracted 150 extra employees, who can help people personally with their fees. They are a kind of personal businessmen, but not for the recovery operation but for the normal, regular supplementing organisation. We have also chosen to call the people who object, not to make them withdraw their objection but to better understand what is going on and what is going on. We are not only going to appoint additional employees this year, but we have also set up the additional Stella teams. Those are teams we know from the Tax Administration/Blue, but they will also work for Fees. We will work better with the implementation organisations and with the municipalities. Our inspiration in this is the "there is no wrong door" principle, in other words that people are well helped with us. Is that going to be all right in all cases? I certainly don't think at first, but we're going to do our utmost to get it done. Mr Stoffer had a question about physical points of contact with the Tax Administration and the role of support points next to the support point in Terneuzen. The Tax Administration expands its entire network of counters with ten support points throughout the Netherlands. This is particularly true in places where the Tax Office is not yet in office. Next to Terneuzen there are nine other regions where we will soon open a support point: Zuidwest-Nederland, Midden-Limburg, Nijmegen, Noord-Holland, Gorinchem, Apeldoorn, Amersfoort, Den Bosch and Noord-Nederland. The first support point will open in Terneuzen this month. The last two support points will be opened in February next year, at least before the declaration campaign, because, of course, it is particularly important for people who have questions about their taxes. By the way, we do this as much as possible by housing in municipal offices, because this is a pleasant place for many people, easy to find and often very easily accessible. Then there is Mr Idsinga's question. He says: in a healthy organization there are written and unwritten rules of conduct. That's a hold-on. He asks what I'm going to do about the organizational culture of the Tax Administration, from the perspective that cultural change is important and that people should be able to do their jobs safely. Culture change is, of course, a very important and important theme. It is good that Mr Idsinga addresses that again. Culture change takes a long time. It also has an important task in the "tone at the top," as it is called. This applies to the political summit, but certainly to the official summit. Together we spend a lot of time and attention on it. It's very necessary, too. That also has to do with the fact that many people who are currently working at the Tax Office are not feeling so comfortable, if only because they don't tell us at a birthday party that they work with us. And those birthday parties are coming back at the current stage of corona. For that reason alone, it is incredibly important to talk to each other: what makes us proud of our work? But also: how can we ensure that our co-workers are also able to feel one of your points and get the space to do their job on their own responsibility? After internally very nasty messages had appeared on our intranet, Secretary of State Vijlbrief and I had a conversation with a number of employees. Apart from the image of the service that people find very uncomfortable, one of the main themes was the extent to which they feel the freedom to act as they feel should be done, and especially the lack of it. This is a theme that lives strongly within the Tax Administration and within Fees and with which we have to get to work. Mr Grinwis asked: what is needed to create a new system? What is needed is, above all, for us to take a decision on it. It is clear that, in response to the POK letter with the present outgoing cabinet, we also said that something must be done about the system. An important starting point is that we have to get rid of the great responsibility and the financial flows that go through citizens, because they result in you suddenly 'hanging' if you make a mistake. And again, the lower your income, the higher the amounts. You can hang for very large amounts, and we shouldn't want that. That's not what the system's for. A new system is therefore needed, this cabinet says. You yourself know that different political parties have different views on this. Our hope is that we will make a choice in the formation. It is so necessary in the formation, because we have already done a lot of study work: we are ready to make a decision. But above all: whatever system change you choose, if it is fundamental, so apart from the quick wins we were just talking about, it takes a lot of time to introduce and implement such a system change. So we need to start it as soon as possible. My heart cry would be to be sure not to be the last to look at the childcare allowance. This is particularly because the problem is so great, because it is often about much larger amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u202	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u203	Thanks to the Secretary of State. This is very clear and very logical. All this, of course, depends on political decision-making. Supposing there is some kind of reform coming up, has there been sufficient thought in the Tax Office about how the wagons should be put together in a row to fight that reform? If the child care allowance is abolished first, you will indeed be able to free people who you can use again to achieve a different reform, et cetera. Is that sufficiently operational, so that we not only create a grand design, but also an executable design?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u204	In the report we produced in December last year, we said something about the feasibility of the different options. We have also said that some of them certainly cannot be carried out just like that. If the question is whether you have the teams ready in a manner of speaking; no, of course we are not that far. That choice must be made first. We have said that it will take a lot of time to carry it through properly. New information has come from the childcare sector after December and from other places which, I think, is interesting to consider. But again, this really is an issue for formation. I would like to call on all of us to think about that in that context. I think I have had all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u205	Thank you. Then we'll clean up and then I'll give the floor to the Minister of Finance. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u206	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to answer a limited number of questions. Maybe I can start by repeating what I said earlier in the Chamber. That is that a great deal has gone completely and horribly wrong in this dossier, with great damage for a very large group of innocent citizens. We have to make that right. On the cabinet side, we have this expensive duty, knowing that you can only do it as well and as badly as you can. I would like to stress once again to the Chamber that as a cabinet, as a ministry, we feel fully responsible for this, but also that I personally feel fully responsible for it. I'm not just talking about solving it, I'm talking about what happened. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with Mrs Kat's question. I believe that this question is an immediate force for introspection. What really impressed you the most? We've all had a lot of conversations. All these conversations make a deep impression. I remember the first conversation very well. On that day, the Secretary of State had resigned. The debate had not continued and Mrs Leijten asked me to join a group of parents who had, as it were, been left, pending the debate. That made a lot of impression. I also remember very well the conversations I had in January of last year, when I finally saw the Secretary of State. One of those conversations had two mothers at the table. The first one told me about a seriously ill child. In addition to this, she also had this problem of supplementing. That made a huge impression. I'd known another mother for 20 or 30 years, but I'd never seen her in the supplemental affair. That is, of course, a very absurd type of reunion. I think I'm generally relatively hypothermia if necessary. This has been one of the few moments when after that I was quite out of my mind about what was being discussed there. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer and Mrs Kat asked what was personally done by the rulers. That question, of course, forces introspection. I'm from December 2019. I don't know the exact date, but it was about 19 or 21 December until the arrival of the two State Secretarys seven days a week on the file. At that time, I strongly urged the coalition parties, the Prime Minister and others to join two State Secretarys, because I foreseen that there would be a Hercules task for whoever would do it. Then I was involved, because Mr Nijboer's question was about that, in a large number of meetings in the ministry, in all kinds of discussions within the cabinet, in discussions within part of the cabinet and in discussions with parents. Also in the last two Catshuis sessions, to which was just referred, we have regularly puzzled on what a next package should look like. Also recently, the Secretary of State and I, but not just the two of us, have been in contact. Of course, I also have regular contact with the officials, in particular the Secretary-General, about what is going on and what is needed. I would like to point out that what I have done is, of course, not in comparison with what the Secretary of State has done about it. In addition, the other things in the portfolio, also in a corona year, have called for a lot of attention. I would like to say this in the direction of Mr Nijboer, because I fully understand his question. I hope I've answered it with this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten asked about the staffing. I find that an uncomfortable question, and I'll explain why. I would like to highlight first, but I do not want to suggest that this has something to do with what I think the idea behind the question is that there are many different functions in the Ministry of Finance than a year and a half ago. There is a new Secretary-General, a Director-General has been added and a new Director-General has joined the Tax Administration. A lot of people have come to help us on the supplement file, which they work hard for. But the fundamental question is of course: do you think that so-called Carrington doctrine should go on? I think so. That means that politics is responsible. If the functioning of an official is a cause for concern and conversation, then that conversation should take place in the Ministry. Staff meetings should not be held here in the Chamber. Moreover, it may be that the Chamber wishes to have a staff meeting with a member of the board. That is part of normal parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u207	There is a question from Mrs Leijten about this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u208	There was a lot of abdominal pain. There's been a lot of clues in the interrogation room. These people were trained and could all cost €30,000. The truth hasn't been told. I don't know if there's been a lie, but the truth hasn't been told. No one knew where the memo Palmen was. Anyone can see that these people have just gotten another function high and dry. I didn't ask what the Prime Minister was doing about it, but that doesn't really look good, does it? That's a nasty face, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u209	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u210	A letter has been written by Secretary of State File letter that 13 times the law has been broken. Yesterday we received a report that people were made of their own accord to eliminate work stocks. Isn't anyone responsible for that? You saw them yourself. I saw what the minister did. If you see the consequence of policy, decision-making and non-action in reports and non-effect on the other side, isn't that a face? Surely the Minister can answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u211	It's just that I think it's so important to pull a few things apart. I fully agree with Mrs Leijten............................................................................................................................................................................................. That's what the Cabinet charges itself for. That's what the Treasury is charging itself for. That's what the IRS charges itself. That's what I'm charging myself for personally. That is also the reason why the entire cabinet, which is politically no small thing, has resigned. I also think that as an employer, you should always consider how your people function. Often that is not at all about whether someone should leave or not, but it is about what is good, what can be better and how to help someone. That is a dialogue that belongs in the secrecy of a staff interview. When it comes to the highest officials, it is a conversation that may also involve politicians. Much more often, of course, it is a purely official dialogue. I just outlined that the picture that everyone would still be working at the ministry just doesn't add up. But I find it really relevant in this discussion, with everything that has gone wrong, for which I want to take full responsibility, that I also have to stick to the agreement that politics is responsible and that I answer here, that the cabinet is accountable here, also about what is not going well, but that the staff meeting, would be necessary, takes place in a ministry and not in the Second Chamber. Of course, things have gone horribly wrong here, but, as the Prime Minister has just said, there is another side too, although a lot has gone wrong in this case. Whether you're looking at the Tax Office or at my ministry or other ministries, it's my firm belief that the vast majority of people are conscientious, with integrity, with knowledge and skill and with great dedication to work every day to work for the public cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u212	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u213	I'm not gonna be pinned down for suggesting that. When Uijlenbroek has to leave and he is appointed by the same government one and a half years later as a supporter of Mr Roemer, who was going to investigate labour migration and corona......................................................................................................................................................................................................... It almost sounds like a cynical joke. Now it's about names, but those names have just been in pieces and we have them from the government itself. That's what they just say. It's not like you have to find out if it's from a newspaper. That letter says: we appoint Roemer and he is supported by Uijlenbroek. That's just what it says, because it's from the ABD. We all know that Blankestin said: that's the way the trials were; no, we weren't looking at people anymore, that wasn't our job either. He's just got a new job with the IRS. That hurts, I think. It hurts the government, the government as a whole, us, that it works that way. That's what I asked. That can also be in the thinking of recovery: in the future we will do it differently; if you fly out, we will not hire you again for jobs. Or: if we find that a certain agency, the ABD, is very often involved in all kinds of abuses, then we don't do any more business with it. That would be possible too, without talking about people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u214	But this is about the things that are being debated. Mrs Leijten now says in an interim sense: the ABD is very often involved in all kinds of abuses. There too, things will go wrong. This is not my political responsibility, but that of the Minister of the Interior. To put that down, knowing what kind of work is going on there, how much good is going on there, and yet suggesting it's a big mess there, it doesn't do any good. That doesn't do justice to the people who work there. Nor does it do justice to the people who work through the ABD. That's what I really want to say. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that this is the subject of dialogue, of course, including at the Ministry. That is also what the political dialogue is about. What do you have to take responsibility for? How do you make sure all that horrible stuff that happened doesn't happen again? I agree with her very much. Then Mrs Leijten asked about the app conversation between her and me. She looked at this more broadly in the context of the information request. How's that going? To the best of my knowledge, such a request is being considered by the Ministry. By the way, it might be good to mention the following. I was talking to one of the Members about that during the break. There are few things in which you as a ruler have as little to do with as a Wob request. It comes in, it's handled by legal matters, and for information, you get what goes out. But it really is not, and rightly so, that a ruler has a bit to choose from. Of course, that would be very crazy. So that's what's being figured out. Of course, officials also look at the e-mails and all the information available, what the scope of progress is and what the relevance is. Those seem to me to be justified criteria. This means that, for example, 22 000 pieces have been made available in this dossier, I believe. At the moment I think PwC is working on all kinds of inboxes, including mine, to flip upside down and see if there is anything in it. But if there's nothing in there, then nothing goes to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked about the implementation. There are a few questions about implementation, which have already been answered by the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister. But what might still be good to say is that the cabinet is very much in agreement with the things Mr Snels says and the things he draws attention to, from points of contact to wider implementation. We discussed the Spring paper yesterday, and it also states that we have made more than three-quarters of a billion, I think about 800 million, available to tackle a great many problems of this kind in a structural way. Are we done with that? I don't think so. Is it just a matter of money? Nor; culture is often much more complicated. But it is a very significant amount and there is also a very significant change notice. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raan asked whether the Prime Minister could undertake to complete the Wob request to the Ministry of Finance before the recess. I cannot allow the Prime Minister to make that commitment, because it is a Wob request that is being dealt with, but in the context of care, views are currently being sought from third parties in accordance with the legislation on Wob requests. That gives them the opportunity to provide a perspective as well. We must also respect this care. I did not feel that the Prime Minister wanted freewheeling on this, but let me give this answer on his behalf to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u215	Let's protect the Prime Minister in particular. However, this concerns a specific case cited in the framework of the Ruttedoctrine. And this is a Wob request where every term has passed. I would be happy to deal with Mr Hoekstra if it were a matter where we are still within the deadline and it takes a little longer. But here, every term has already been exceeded. So there's actually no reason to say this right now. So it doesn't seem as strong as you say: we have some questions to ask out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u216	For that, I simply have to acknowledge to Mr Van Raan that I do not know enough about the history of this Wob request, even if it is because these things, as I did not say, are not things that I actively interfere with. I do know that at my ministry as well as at other ministries, there are a lot of Wob requests coming in. That takes an incredible amount of work and sometimes we miss deadlines, while dozens of people are working full-time. In this particular case, of course, I checked during the break: what is the situation, can it be done faster and what is the reason that Mr Van Raan will not have submitted it himself? And to that the answer is thus the view of third parties. We have to respect that, too. And then, of course, sometimes you get into trouble, because those views must also be presented according to the Wob, and there are also deadlines; Mr Van Raan is right about that. That's what we're trying to get together as best we can. Will I agree with Mr Van Raan that, if we find that this problem is still occurring after the summer, then we will communicate about it? It seems to me the most logical thing to do is to do so towards the proposers, because they are parties. It's a little uncomfortable, I don't even know who that party is to communicate with Mr Van Raan about someone who's submitted a Wob request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u217	I think this is a good solution, because the Minister actually says: give me the confidence that this will work; I am going to carry it out as I see fit. And I'm willing to honor that. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u218	Mr Van Raan here specifies the principle of trust, which I believe applies in a general sense, to a specific case. That is dangerous, but I thank him very much for that. Mrs. Van Dijk asked what it would take to give the government a heart and a face again. I liked the wording of that. It was also a wording which I thought I belonged to Mr Grinwis, who left the Chamber, perhaps temporarily. It is in fact in line with the answer I just gave to Mr Snels. Implementation is often the face of the government and there is also direct contact with the citizen. That is why we have said that there should be points of contact again. They need to be there just because we've been through things in this horrible affair that you think is "just kafkaesque." I talked to parents who said I called 20 times and then I got 19 different people on the phone. I understand very well that at some point people will light up in rage and think: when will someone solve this for me? Well, there's gotta be a different way. Some therefore asked for discretion. But having such a window at all is very important and those two go hand in hand as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. Mr Grinwis also asked for a name and telephone number on each letter. I think I paraphrase the Minister of SZW in his various consultations with the Chamber when I say that we like the idea and that we would also like to meet it as much as possible, but that there are also a lot of things that are automatically played out, think of the 3.5 million people who get AOW every month. This is automatically created and no official is involved. So we do want to see what can be done in this Public Service Work Agenda, which has been sent to the Chamber, but we cannot do that at all times and in all cases. I suspect that Mr Grinwis can understand that. I certainly hope so. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer also asked a very valid question, which follows on from Mr Snels. His question is actually broader, because he asked: do civil servants, directors, judges and the Council of State still function with sufficient regard for personal circumstances? In fact, he said that the implementing organisations should be more human. He is right, and that is exactly the essence of the whole package of January and February. But it is my firm conviction that implementation is a task that will remain with us for the next five and perhaps ten years. This also applies: trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. I could then say that the services of the implementing organisations are valued by an average of seven. That is also true, but of course you want more satisfaction and less bureaucracy. There is a great deal of work to be done. Moreover, I believe that we, as legislators, also have a role to play there in relation to relatively simple legislation, without too many exceptions, and to that discretionary power, which I have just referred to. To be honest, it also seems very complicated for people behind a counter that you hear a real problem from someone on the other side of the desk and at the same time thinks "but I can't really do anything." Of course, that's something you don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u219	Of course, that is quite a dilemma for the Minister of Finance, because the implementing organisations always see tasks. At the same time, the Minister of Finance is paying attention to the pennies. How does he deal with that? There's a lot of money in it, isn't there? The UWV and so it involves several billions of execution costs. For the municipalities that depend on the Empire, the same applies, as for the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u220	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u221	The PvdA is always in favour of investing heavily in this, see our election programmes. The VVD is cutting back on that; that is another choice. But, of course, it does matter if you do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u222	Sure, sure. I know Mr Nijboer as someone who reads the spring note with great precision. He pointed out yesterday the larger amounts of aid associated with corona, but he will no doubt also have seen the amounts that we have made available for the implementation organisations and the points of contact. That's really about substantial money, especially when you realize that this outgoing cabinet actually does that in its spare time. Maybe you should say "injury time" one night all this. But I don't think the stocking is finished with that. My suspicion is that you will continue to strengthen the implementation organisations in the future. Is that always more money and so more people? I don't think so. If only it were that simple, because then you could solve it very easily in that way. It is probably much more complex, but that you have to potentially re-scan the pouch there, is very possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u223	I agree with the Minister. I think that's a good analysis, too. In the past, it was in fashion that investments had to recoup each time. The IRS had business cases. There is something to be said for that in itself; if you are tackling tax avoidance, you also want more tax revenue. This has been abolished, and this also applies to fines and the like, and that should not be allowed to happen anymore. But what is the attitude towards such investments? Because they are: investments in better execution, in a human approach, in contact with a person and not with a device if you have a problem with the government. How does Treasury deal with that now? Because that's pretty important for the coming time to make decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u224	There are, of course, a number of covers that we have to deal with as political, executive and ministry. What we did in January and February, but also, frankly, the extra IT investments we made in last year's spring note, and I also think in the year before, do you see that we have the logic of "can it be as cheap as possible?" have really left. That was inevitable with that IT too, quite frankly, because the problems are of course also great there. There you can see that part of the money cannot be spent in one year. So Nijboer recognizes that we've been passing the money on from time to time. But I think this should be the basic attitude. The basic attitude should be about effectiveness, about doing justice to what people expect from the government, the state and should not be about efficiency. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of this brief first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u225	I thank the Minister. This brings us to the end of the first term on the cabinet side. I'll see if there's a need for a second term; I have a hunch of that. That's right. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u226	Mr. Chairman. When the Prime Minister says that he is disassociating from my analysis of the human image that has led to the government we now have, which I am not saying at all that this was wanted, but that it was believed that it worked that way. If he himself says that we had a look at the fight against fraud, in which we looked very one-sidedly at the poorest part of our population. When we see that people who call on the government for care, for a benefit, for many facets of supplements, have to do an endless amount to prove that they are entitled to it. Then the Prime Minister calls that SP propaganda. I wish he had taken this seriously in 2014 when we pointed it out and asked about it. Then they probably put it away as SP propaganda, because listening to people was something stupid and something scary! I found the greatest recognition of the letter sent by the government when it resigned, the response to unprecedented injustice, and also what the Minister of Finance said in the interrogation room: if only we had talked to the people earlier, we would have looked them in the eye, then we would have seen that everything we got on paper, everything that was proposed to us about the results of policy was not right. Well, that's what we're seeing in yesterday's ADR report. An official act to improve the work processes made people a fraud. I just answered an e-mail from someone who is in debt restructuring, who has received compensation but is not getting any extra air, because the credit rating agency says: "We have not yet been forgiven and we are really not sure whether the government is going to do so. They say so, but we're holding that $30,000." She thought she was going on vacation this summer, but forget it. So it looks nice on paper, but in reality it is much more uncomfortable. Mr. Chairman. The SP just stays the SP. It continues to make that analysis and it continues to make hotlines. Soon the government will listen to us, I hope. The future government. Right? After all, we went back to listening to people. Mr. Chairman. The position of the Chamber in the parliamentary questioning with the claim is really serious. I have already said that I believe that the parliamentary lawyer should investigate this. That has been explained in the Finance Committee, but I do not think we should rid ourselves of that. I think we should seriously investigate that. It is therefore a request to the Presidium. Mr President, I am sure we will find a good form. Nor should we ask the government to find out, because then everything will disappear into a black hole or half an assignment. I think we should at least do this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that during and after the interrogations of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee Childcare Fee, all kinds of documents have become public through procedures relying on the Public Administration Act;]] [[considers that the provision of information to a parliamentary survey should be above all doubt;]] [[calls on the Bureau to instruct the Parliamentary Advocate to undertake an analysis of the documents and other public documents received by the Interrogation Committee as to whether the application of the Interrogation Committee has been complete,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer and thank you to colleagues for the exchange of arguments. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the action of the Tax Administration has led to unprecedented injustice for tens of thousands of parents and children;]] [[believes that the State should serve the people;]] [[calls on the Government to learn from this and to make it clear to all levels of government that the State is there for the citizen and that excessive exercise of power against the citizen is reprehensible and should not be allowed to happen anymore,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many thousands of parents and children have been wronged unprecedentedly;]] [[Whereas this is partly due to failure to comply with legislation by officials, including the Awb, the Awir, the GDPR, the Wko and the Constitution;]] [[calls on the Government to acknowledge that its officials have violated several laws,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many of the victims do not have confidence in the government;]] [[calls on the government to examine each quarter how public confidence in the affected parents is developing and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the establishment and use of risk profiles of which ethnicity is a part is contrary to the prohibition of discrimination and to Article 1 of our Constitution;]] [[Whereas it would be desirable for the government to develop policies to ensure that law enforcement officers in the service of the government no longer establish and apply risk profiles of ethnicity and second nationality;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit immediately and explicitly any direct or indirect use of ethnicity and nationality in (automated) risk profiling in law enforcement and to develop policies and legal frameworks for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-63]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-64]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-65]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u228	We're almost there, Mr. Chairman, two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to share with the Chamber within one week all information and documents relating to the Memo Palms and the way in which the Memo Palms have been handled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u229	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government is currently identifying who was in the Fraud Signalings Provision and for what reasons;]] [[whereas there are now citizens who feel stigmatized and criminalised because they are now wrongly associated with fraud by this FSV;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare for a compensation scheme for citizens who were wrongly included in the FSV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u230	Mr Azarkan has always tabled a lot of motions on many different subjects that have not really been the subject of the debate. To be quite honest, I think I will support them all, but they have all been submitted and accepted in a different form and in a different way. I have a question for Mr Azarkan about this FSV, for example. It's being mapped. It has been said that compensation is being looked at. Is it necessary to do this this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u231	I realize I made another mistake. Of course, I should have included Mrs Leijten in the motions in advance and perhaps I should have invited her to the group meeting of my group, because then she could talk with us and decide with us. It is true that we have been waiting a year and a half for the FSV and I am really tired of it. I reported that last time. I have had a lot of patience and I know Mrs Leijten as a person, a politician, who also wants us to proceed smoothly in this respect. I note from people's experiences so far that it is finally going to look like government is going to make preparations. What I don't want is for us to get a report a year and a half after we ask for it and then the government says: we're going to set up a committee and then we're going to investigate for a long time what that means. I'd like a lot of thought to be given. That is why I am also saying that I want it to be examined already, so that when that report comes out, we can move on smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u232	It's all taking way too long. It was said at the time: there is reason to compensate and we are going to inform everyone. It took another motion for early this year to do it. The letters that are now being sent are unlawful because they do not say why people insisted on it, who it was shared with and what rights they could derive from it. That went wrong, too. Even now, the SP has started a hotline to speed things up, so hopefully we will be able to get to work. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're pulling at the same end of the rope. What matters more to me is that this debate was not about that. So it is fine to table this motion and it will probably be adopted, but it has been partly promised and the debate has not been about it either. I find that difficult, because that happens in more situations. I have had a debate with you on the growing anti-Islam sentiment, an important debate. There a motion was tabled about a diversity training in the government. We hadn't discussed that at all, and I find that difficult. I do not need to be invited to your group meetings. I think we should use the debate for those things that we should discuss and then move on so that we know what it is about. I therefore believe that we are complying with the commitments we have made ourselves to make fewer motions, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u233	Would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u234	I think that Mrs Leijten and I agree very often and thank her for this wonderful contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u235	Thank you. I would also like to say to Members that I sent a letter yesterday which also contains such a comment. It would be nice to be keen on that after recess. That also applies when a commitment has been made. Then we can do something about the size of the number of motions. And that's what I'm saying in a general sense. I would like to give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I make an average of ten to fifteen motions a year. By chance, one motion on FSV, six months ago, has now been adopted. It was about a compensation scheme. But that aside. Mr. Chairman. This was an important debate. In my opinion, it is important to reflect on how the supplement scandal came about, even if it was just because the parents asked themselves the same question every day: why was I treated as a fraud? So we'll keep doing that. In addition, it is of course also important that we make the recovery operation smooth, that we continue to work hard and that we compensate all those parents and those victims as quickly as possible and as well as possible. Thirdly, it remains important that we continue to have the more difficult, drier debates on how we are going to improve legislation and implementation. A lot of questions have been asked about this in the first term, including by me. A lot of questions have been answered by the cabinet. I would like to make a few points. The first is that I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment that, on the basis of yesterday's ADR report on the other payments of EUR 5,000 debt, the consequences of this will automatically be as explicit as the compensation scheme for the other surcharges will be worked out in the summer. We agreed with the Prime Minister on this very complex issue where everything is related to improving implementation and legislation. It is a good thing that the cabinet is also continuing to report on this in all coherence. We know how politics works: the climate changes; the attention span is short. This is really such a subject that we must continue to discuss in conjunction. So thank you for that, too. Thank you also for the Prime Minister's commitment to ask his colleague in the cabinet to involve the Chamber earlier in the adaptation of the General Administrative Law Act, which is legally complicated, but so, so, so, so important for the impact in society. We'll see what shape that takes. The Prime Minister was less forthcoming about the link between algorithms and the capacity of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Then there's only one solution: a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of personal data and algorithms may lead to unintentional discrimination;]] [[whereas there are standards, rules and frameworks for this, but it is the Personal Data Authority that should monitor this;]] [[noting that the AP's capacity to monitor all algorithms seems very limited;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to draw up, in consultation with the AP, an inventory of the capacity to monitor algorithms and assess the need for additional budgetary resources as a matter of urgency, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Snels and Mr Kat.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u238	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party, who has one motion, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u239	Thank you, Mr President. I think it was Lord Marlborough, ancestor of Churchill, whom we both admired, who said: to remain faithful to a party, you often have to change your mind. I have here the motion on the Prime Minister's voting behaviour, which says: I agree with all the POK statements. And I have here the stenogram in which the Prime Minister says: yes, I do, except for the political statements. In the first term, the Prime Minister made it clear that I endorsed both of them. It cannot be both at the same time, but I conclude with the words of another: a wise man is able to change his mind and a fool perseveres in his opinion. He can reflect on that one more time. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers, including those of the Secretary of State. There are indeed no golden solutions. The Secretary of State says she's proud of the civil service. I get that. That's perfectly right. I think we should also recognise that we should be proud of all these victims, how they work out of the problems and how we can help them. Mr. Chairman. I've got a couple of motions on that. Three of them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Administrative Advisory Council on Childcare Allowance (BAK) finds that the recovery operation is likely to be stalled because tailor-made work and speed are incompatible;]] [[Whereas careful, individual, comprehensive damage treatment should remain a priority;]] [[whereas it is important for the process of healing that the doomed parents are given as much time as they need;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the parents, to come up with a plan or plans of approach which focuses on tailor-made work and healing and which makes speed subordinate by freezing the situation of the injured, so that the misery does not deepen in the meantime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Simons and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u240	I said "plans of action" because there is no golden solution, as the Secretary of State said. That's true. There's probably 40,000 solutions. Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares that no cost or effort may be spared for the settlement of damages and the process of healing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Simons and Mr Snels.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u241	Then the final motion. The Secretary of State gave some kind of commitment on that, but we're going to have to put her in to see if we mean the same thing. Maybe we'll move her in. Maybe she'll get a verdict, Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the summer recess begins on Friday for the Government and Members of Parliament;]] [[whereas the injured parents never experience freedom and rest because of what has been done to them;]] [[calls on the Government to arrange for a period of freedom and rest for all victims, if they appreciate it, at least during the summer recess, and to inform the Chamber within two weeks of the beginning of the summer recess of the precise way in which the government is to shape this period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u242	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u243	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u244	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Van Dam Committee for all its work. I had failed to say that in the first term, but that fits for a while. I also thank the rulers for their first term. Mr. Chairman. Where people live together, rules come into being to make it possible to live together. That fact alone defines the rules. Or as the Bible writer Marcus says, the rules are there for people, not the people for the rules. In other words: the systems, the work processes, the manuals are not there for the people and the people for the systems, the work processes and the manuals. That went wrong in the whole surcharge scandal, by the way, from the first day of that whole maleized surcharge system in 2005. Mr. Chairman. I have said it before: that is why we must move to a different system. That is why we must now also move towards recovery and compensation after unprecedented injustice. We have already had a number of debates on this subject, even in this new Chamber period of 99 days. That's why we need to go to a government with a heart, a government with a face. In that context, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the provision of services to public authorities is increasingly digitised;]] [[Whereas the Futselaar/Van Raak motion (26643, No. 633) was adopted unanimously but has not yet been fully implemented;]] [[Whereas it is very important that people can contact staff from public authorities directly and personally who have knowledge and mandates to help them effectively;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all relevant letters from public authorities contain a telephone number of a competent employee, so that personal contact becomes more accessible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u245	So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u246	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Recovering trust," "seeing faith first," "performing promises," "things must never go wrong like this again" and "wishful behaviour must become normal": statements that we have heard a lot here today and statements that are also important in the debates we are having on this subject. Have we learned from this now? Time will tell, but we're all there. There are 86 actions and intentions in the progress report and they have been widely discussed. We talked about how we can follow this integrally and how we can ensure that it does not disappear into the background. That is a search with each other, but it is certain that we are far from finished on this issue. A clear appeal has also been made to the Prime Minister to show ownership on that subject. I learned this evening: chefsache. Then back to culture and culture change. Mrs Van Huffelen points out that it is an important theme and a theme that lives. And indeed, cultural change is not self-evident. The Prime Minister states that it must become normal for you to report as an employee and for citizens to receive assistance. It must be normal for these signals to be placed in the Chamber in a structural manner. I am very happy to hear that, because I think that the motion I am about to table together with Mrs Kat can certainly get a ruling from the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch tax legislation is complex and may lead to errors in application to citizens and businesses, or disproportionate development;]] [[noting that this was the case in the child care allowance affair, where the practical legal protection of Dutch citizens was terribly compromised;]] [[noting that tax authorities have the most direct contact with citizens and businesses and should be able to send signals without negative consequences when they detect errors and abuses in and in the implementation of policies and legislation;]] [[Whereas tax assistance for citizens or businesses in the Netherlands is limited when they have disputes with the Tax Administration;]] [[whereas the Taxpayer Advocate Service in the United States is a practical example of a body that can directly assist citizens and businesses in disputes with the US tax authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate how a body can be set up in the Netherlands:]] [[providing direct tax assistance to citizens and businesses when they experience disputes with the Tax Administration and have perseverance;]] [[which also has an alerting function for problems in the implementation and abuses of policies and legislation, and can report directly to the Chamber;]] [[has independent powers to conduct investigations;]] [[requests to include in this investigation how employees of the Tax Administration can themselves make confidential reports to this body,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Kat.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u249	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Cabinet for its comprehensive reply. I had one of the main questions: what are the excuses of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance worth? They have said that they have spoken with the parents a lot, intrusively and at different times. I think that part is sufficiently answered. If we look at what the victims of this unprecedented injustice have to deal with to this day, I think that the shame should be on the cabinet's jaws. If you resign at the beginning of this year, which is six months ago, and you ask for a mandate for two things, namely the fight against corona and the handling of this misery, then I actually think that there has been insufficient progress. There's still too many parents in this mess. There is too little prospect of doing justice to all those victims, many tens of thousands of parents and children, in the short term. The Prime Minister wrote, when I addressed him personally, that I cannot grow the grass by pulling it. I've been thinking about that. I thought, don't I understand that equation? What am I supposed to do with that? But of course, it's hard work to compensate those parents properly. It is hard work to tackle the rot in the rule of law, on all the fronts we have discussed today. It is hard work to rebuild the surcharge system so that it helps people and so that there is a public provision, so that people don't get in the mess anymore. It's not gonna happen on its own. When I hear in an interrupting debate with the country's largest party'some studies need to be done', I think: no, it is very hard work. It has purchasing power effects, the system needs to be adjusted, the minimum wage needs to be increased, childcare needs to be a public... That's hard work. I expect that from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance when they ask for the mandate of the Chamber and if it is one of the biggest problems of our time. I didn't hear enough of that today. So I don't have a motion, but I do have a judgment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u251	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kat van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna put your advice into effect right away. I have looked closely at the motions with other parties and tried to cooperate in them. That's why I've filed motions with other parties. So I don't have an extended term. But I would like to thank the directors very much, also for their personal analysis and reflection on the conversations they had with the parents. I really appreciate that, because that is definitely a good start to a reflection on the past. We will certainly continue with the recovery operations in that regard. We really have a lot to do. After the summer holidays there will be a complete recalibrate of the system. It is also necessary to develop the directions that we propose with each other. There really need to be clear choices in that. I want to do that with the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Kat. Then I give the floor to Mr Idsinga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This morning, together with a number of colleagues, I tabled a motion on the recovery operation itself. Of course, I'm not going to do that now. I thank the rulers for their reply. I have tabled a motion with a number of colleagues on the new human face of the government. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the premium affair should not repeat itself in the future;]] [[Whereas for many people the Tax Administration is one of the most important faces of the government;]] [[Whereas one of the objectives of the Cabinet is to help people more personally;]] [[calls on the Government to promote better the ability of tax administration officials to deliver customised services and to increase the scope for decision-making;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of this in the next report on progress in the tax administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Idsinga, Mr Grinwis, Mr Kat and Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am about to start, because I see that Mr Rutte is incredibly curious about the fantastic motions I am going to make together with Mr Van Raan. But before I do that, here's what I'm gonna do. After this debate, I still have one big question: what is the purpose of this cabinet, including the Secretary of State, in relation to action now? What's the target? When did it succeed for them? If that goal is to compensate parents financially and to be done with this scandal by 2025, then I really must let this cabinet manage its own expectations and ask for the goals to be adjusted. Because one thing we know for sure. We will be working until at least 2050, perhaps to the great fear of Mr Rutte, but we will need a great deal of time to restore this unprecedented injustice. And that's just the way it is. Fifteen years of injustice is not going to be rectified in two years. I can't help it, but I always have to think of my gynecologist's winged pronunciation: nine months pregnant is nine months of pregnancy. I can imagine that we can put that principle into practice here too. As I have just said, I would like to stress it once again, the suffering that has been done to these people translates into intergenerational suffering, intergenerational trauma and intergenerational damage. We won't solve that in the next five, ten or even twenty years. The sooner the cabinet accepts that, the better we can really do justice to the solution that the victims deserve. I am therefore pleased to hear from the outgoing Prime Minister that we are talking here about paying back money that belongs to the people themselves, the only money. And so far they've only received part of it back. We then wonder, of course, where the rest is and when the rejected parents get their money back. If we can all give people a tick of 'frauder', we should also be able to invent a tick of 'unrighteously designated as fraud'. Finally, in addition to the motions I tabled with Mr Van Raan, the last two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many damaged parents could not find a minute's rest because they were still under the control of persistent and unjustified debts;]] [[calls on the Government to apply a temporary exemption from the debt administration and their directors, if they ask for such a temporary exemption, for disabled parents until all their debts have been waived by the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that disabled parents themselves have indicated that they need a central place where they can meet, exchange experiences and thus heal;]] [[calls on the government to create a central place where disabled parents and children can come together and be facilitated in their healing process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-76]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u257	Thank you, Mrs Simons. There is a question from Mr Azarkan. No? No question. A word of thanks? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u258	I had just tabled a motion on FSV and Mr Snels subtly reminded me that in January we adopted a motion on this subject on which I am, in fact, a third signatory. You will also notice me, it is the end of this political season. Excuse me, I'm withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u259	I think that is very much appreciated by your colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u260	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about 15 minutes to prepare for an appreciation of the motions and answer a single question. I shall suspend the sitting until 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u261	I would ask Members to take their place again. I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Perhaps the Prime Minister could also indicate what motions it is about. Before the Acts: the motion in part No. 68, Mr Azarkan's motion is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u262	Mr. Chairman. A few more questions, four motions and a final word on my part. Let's start with the questions. The Supreme Court Committee, Mrs Van Dijk. Indeed, I did double-check it, because I was talking about it in the first term. Indeed, there are so many of them. Ministers Dekker and Ollongren are preparing for this. The motion also calls for preparations. There has been a round table meeting to take the first steps and the process will be continued as soon as possible. Then the Chamber will also be further informed. That motion has been put into effect. There is not exactly anything to say about speed, because that will also depend on the new cabinet. It seems like something the new cabinet needs to find. If that takes too long, we'll get back to that ourselves. Then there is the ban on the use of nationality: why not a complete ban? Discrimination is, of course, forbidden. I suppose that's familiar, accepted and supported. Nevertheless, it may sometimes be necessary to make a justified distinction, including on nationality. The law and case law offer room for this. The legal framework, the Police Data Act, already provides that processing of personal data as a nationality may take place only if this is necessary for the task of the police. A general prohibition of processing may in some cases make the exercise of the police function more difficult. Nationality, for example, may be necessary to identify individuals, not only suspects but also victims, including future victims, if, for example, criminal behaviour is known to target them specifically. Here, for example, we can talk about trafficking in human beings. Then Mr Azarkan's final question before I come to the motions: should there not be a check on whether processing of personal data is allowed at the front? The short answer is yes. I also have a long answer, but I will stick to the short answer. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 62 is in the Chamber, so I don't appreciate it. The motion in part No. Mr Azarkan's 63th Chamber will be judged. The motion in part No. 66 by Mr Azarkan, with reference to my reply, I also advise in this second period. The motion in part No. In the end, I would like to dissuade 69 of Mr Snels. The AP has the freedom to decide for itself how the resources they receive from JenV are distributed among their tasks. Any investments in the Dutch Data Protection Authority ask for a fundamental policy choice that will of course be for a subsequent cabinet, or for this cabinet if it takes too long. Finally, I should like to mention that I have been in politics for about nineteen years now and therefore also in this building. I think today was a good debate, occasionally a heated debate, but also a special debate. This may also be the case for some of you, although there are still a lot of two-minute debates scheduled tomorrow, but not with me for the time being. No, that won't be necessary, thank you for the help. So there is a very high risk that this will be my last debate in this Chamber. I would therefore like to say, for my part, that I hope to see you again in this Chamber after the renovation from this place and in this role in five years' time. I hope, of course, that we will see each other in the new room in the meantime, to debate important issues there too. I've been told the kitchen there is even better than the kitchen here. With that promise, made to me by someone who is chairing this debate right now, I agreed to this move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u263	Look. The last thing I think about the good food is right. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u264	It's a bit of a cheerful note, isn't it? It's okay. But wouldn't the Prime Minister, if he thought he'd be back here in five years' time, and still as Prime Minister of this country, that we wouldn't have to talk about this anymore, because it would have been resolved and put right with the parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u265	Yeah, sure, although I'm afraid Mrs Simons also had a point. When I look at it through my eye hairs, I expect you to come a long way in the next few years with by far the most cases, the people who have been seriously affected, but there is also a risk that there will remain a residual group, which will still need to be taken care of afterwards to solve the matter completely. I am also not sure that the whole immaterial aspect we have talked about will be completely resolved by that time. But we all hope, of course, that in the coming years, and of course this year as the first, we will succeed in taking very big steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u266	We're gonna clean up again, and then I'm gonna give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was one question left. After that, I'll appreciate the motions. It was Mrs Leijten's question about the documents submitted to the POK, with and without Mr Snel's comment. It's true. In the first delivery we delivered a piece to the POK without notes. We did another crosscheck on a Wob request for the Donner Committee. We then came to the conclusion that there was also a piece in which those notes were included. We then sent that to the POK, but that was after Mr Snel's questioning. I understand from Mrs Leijten that she found that annoying and that she would have wanted the documents to have been provided earlier. I agree with her, but this is what actually happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u268	So here we have the answer, namely that the delivery was not what we should have had. The possibility of asking the right questions to both Mr Menno Snel and Mr Eric Wiebes, because about him the notes are in the margin, could have led to the questioning going differently. We could have asked out more specifically and made a better reconstruction. This underlines the importance of the motion on which the Prime Minister does not judge, but on which we are going to vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u269	I also think that I very much agree with Mrs Leijten and that it is incredibly important that we continue to carry out these checks. I think it is also important that we agree on sufficient time to collect these materials. There are two things that play a role. One of these is the quality of information, but I think it is right that we should take the time for a subsequent survey or at any other time when pieces have to be delivered to see how we can do enough. I agree with you that those pieces should have just been delivered at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u270	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u271	I'm glad we can agree on that. Then the Secretary of State argued that the annexes, which had been rejected in the Wob request of RTL and Trouw, would have been issued later. The journalists themselves say that it did not happen. It went through questions from Pieter Ommzigt. That's how those documents were provided. So they were never motivated by the Wob. I think it would be good for the Acts to establish that and that this is problematic, because if they had been provided on the basis of the Wob, or if they had been rejected on a reasoned basis, we would have found that compensation had already been in place by the end of 2017. That could have speeded up a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u272	What you're actually saying is true. These documents were provided later, not on the basis of the Wob, but on the basis of additional questions asked by Mr Omtzigt. That's right. I would also like to make a comment on Mr Nijboer's second term contribution. Why I'd like to do that is because of this. I very much agree with Mr Nijboer that we need to see how we can improve parental recovery operations. I listened carefully to him, but I felt that the impression was given as if no parent had been compensated or helped. It's not. I think it's important to say that. We've been able to give money to almost 20,000 parents. Not only that €30,000, but we have also been able to ensure that their debts are paused or cancelled and that they are helped by the municipality. I agree with you that it should ideally have been much more, but I think it is important for the parents who are watching today that it does not give the impression that no one has been compensated or helped at all. The same applies to the people who do that fantastic work every day, to make sure that it happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u273	Thank you. Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u274	I'm pretty sure I know exactly what's going on. I recognize this from Groningen, too. Apologies were made then, too. That's taking way too long. That is the problem, of course, and I appeal to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. You are responsible as Secretary of State, and you are fully committed to that. I believe that people who are ministers and who apologize should be able to be addressed to them. So I'm pretty sure I know what's going on. I have learned a little bit in the Chamber to always understand the processes, committees, things that have been set in motion and grass that doesn't grow faster when you pull it, and I know what arguments, while parents are still in the shit and Groningers are still duped. My job as MP is to address the cabinet to that. I'll keep doing that. People have certainly been compensated. I agree with the Secretary of State. We get whole schematics from that. I read it neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u275	Then we agree. Very nice. I'm gonna appreciate the motions. I shall then begin with the motion in part No. 64 by Mr Azarkan. It asks whether we want to recognise the failure to comply with legislation and the fact that officials have broken laws. I'd like to discourage that motion. The most important thing is that laws have not been complied with in crucial respects by the government, the executive and the executive. If you want, we can say "override." The cabinet is responsible for this and the individual directors are responsible for it. I do not think it is right for us in this motion to place this so emphatically with our staff, the officials. Our ministerial responsibility doesn't work that way. Things have gone wrong. We know that. Laws have been broken. My point is that I would like to put it above all on those who are responsible for it. That's us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u276	That's not what I'm aiming for. What if I added that the rulers are responsible for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u277	You're referring to civil servants. We are responsible in matters of state law. We're responsible for breaking laws. We've said that's what happened before. As far as I am concerned, this motion is also superfluous. We have already seen that. I find it unpleasant that it is specifically said that officials have done so. I think it is important that we say here that we have done so. I would like to underline that. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u278	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u279	Do you know what's unpleasant? That officials have been responsible for violating the law for years in a row and putting parents in an impossible position. If the report concludes that, if that's in the letter you're sending and if the Secretary of State actually says it is, can't you just say it is? The Secretary of State says it's true. Again, what if I added that recognition is important to the parents? Why are we walking around here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u280	I'm not walking around anything. I started my contribution tonight with the fact that what happened is so serious. You intend to adopt a motion in which you see what is already in the report. The question is therefore what is being said about this motion. My point is more that I find it annoying that civil servants are explicitly mentioned here as those who have broken the laws. I would suggest that we note that laws have been broken and that rulers are responsible for that. I would therefore advise against this motion. I shall now move on to Mr Azarkan's next motion. That's the motion in part No. 65, asking the government to examine every quarter how public confidence in the affected parents is developing. At the moment we periodically examine the experiences of the parents. We have a separate agency that does that for us. We'll report on that in the VGR. I can take this idea as part of those reports, but I don't think it's right to conduct a separate investigation into this. So I suggest that we take that research with us, that we do it together with the experiences we already inventory and with the research we are already doing for parents, so that we can report to you on the progress reports. If I can interpret it that way, I can take over the motion. Or what's it called in here? Judgement Room. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u281	Let me see if Mr Azarkan agrees with the interpretation. That's the case. That'll give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u282	Then the motion to part No. Mr Azarkan, who asked the government to share with the Chamber within one week the documents relating to the Palmen Memo. We have spoken on this subject before. We're waiting for the investigation done by PwC, in which all the documents are examined. I suggest we wait for that. All the pieces will then be sent to you at once, including the interpretation and everything that goes with it. I would therefore advise against this motion. You will receive the documents, but as part of a more extensive investigation. Then the motion to part No. 70 by Mr Van Raan, Mrs Simons and Mr Azarkan. It calls on the government to come up with a plan of action that focuses on tailor-made work and healing and makes speed subordinate. I would ask you to hold this motion, because we are going to proceed with that review. We're gonna make healing part of that. You have tabled several motions on this matter. We are actually looking for two solutions: not only good and slow, but also good and fast. I think it is important that we take the time to find out. If you hold the motion, at least we'll take it with us. We can then always see whether that is sufficient in the proposals as far as you are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u283	The essence of the motion is the way in which we are thinking about this recalibratement. We've talked about that before. I believe that Mr Idsinga had a motion on that too. To put the motion to the vote after the re-examination has already taken place does not make much sense anymore. It is about the issues that we want to deal with and, in particular, about the role of parents. The Secretary of State could also read it as input for the re-examination process and the location of the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u284	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u285	We've discussed that before this morning. That's also in other motions. But here it says literally: customization and healing central and speed subordinate and therefore make sure that there is a specific place where that is the issue. As far as I'm concerned, it's a little too specific to say that we're all going to do that. I'm not sure we should reduce speed. I think a lot of parents who watch tonight only want one thing: quick, quick, quick. They want help. That's the text I get from everyone in both ways, messages, and so on. This is without prejudice to the fact that we would like to take this issue with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u286	In the spirit of the evening, I suggest that we take the motion back and change it in such a way that the Secretary of State will be able to give Chamber as an appreciation of judgment, because we feel that we do mean and pursue the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u287	Then the Secretary of State must know what the motion will look like and then give a separate appreciation in writing, prior to the votes. Well, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u288	Okay, I'll wait and see. Then the motion to part No. 71. That's a speech-expression, so I don't have to appreciate it. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 72 by Mr Van Raan and Mrs Simons. That motion is about the period of freedom and rest for the parents. We have just discussed in the debate that parents can report this to their business manager. We will, of course, ensure that the businessmen act accordingly. It seems unnecessary to me to send a separate letter about the exact way in which we are going to do it, because we are going to do it this way. In other words, we will do as you ask. On request there is the possibility to have no contact for a while and not to receive letters. The way we do that is very simple: a parent passes it on to the business manager. I therefore advise against this motion, because I am asked to do something that I do not think is necessary, because I have actually already realized it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u289	That is how we discussed it during the debate. So we can withdraw this motion. I would also like to highlight, perhaps too late, the fact that the Prime Minister has not responded to the question of his dual attitude and his own position. So he has either made a turn, which I warmly welcome...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u291	...or he's just stuck in that schizophrenic situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u292	Thank you. We are now working on the second term and the appreciation of the motions, so we are not going to do that anymore. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u293	Then I shall proceed to Mrs Van Dijk's and Mrs Kat's motion. That's the motion in part No. 74 on an inquiry into a tax ombudsman. I'd like to give that motion a Chamber of Commons. We have also talked about this before. There's a letter on the way to you, so you'll know. Then the motion to part No. 75 by Mr Idsinga, Mr Grinwis, Mrs Kat and Mrs Van Dijk. It calls for the next progress report to inform about the better ability of tax administration officials to deliver customised services in a broad sense. We want to give this motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 76 by Mrs Simons and Mr Van Raan. It is about a temporary exemption for duped parents of the debt administration and their administrator until their debts have been cleared by the government. We have already discussed the differences in governance in the debate. For the parents who are in the legal debt restructuring, the Wsnp, this is in fact already true. We are going to take over those debts from them. Then they will also be rid of the debt burden and the associated regime. In the case of people in protective control, I can't arrange it, because that protection regime is regulated by the canton court. I have already told you that I do think it is important that those directors....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs Leijten mentioned an example of this. I can't overrule a protection officer. That is why I do not recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u294	I think I can understand the fact that you can't overrule a canton judge, especially when it comes to the protection regime. Then I have a question about that other form of government. The Secretary of State says I'm gonna take care of it. That's future time. I wonder at what time it is going to do that and whether, regardless of the time limit, it will be possible to speed it up in any case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u295	Of course, we need a regulation and a law for that. In the autumn of this year, we are going to start to cancel those deadlines. I cannot now say exactly the month or the time, but that is what we are discussing in the coming months. We're gonna make sure we take over the debts of people who are on a Wsnp trajectory or Msnp trajectory, so they become debt-free. If you'd like, I can tell you one more-on-one about the exact starting date. Maybe the rest of us want to know, too. The motion in part No. 77 is about creating a central place where duped parents and children can come together and be facilitated in their healing process. Here I actually have the same point I mentioned earlier. I would actually like to ask for that motion to be held. We would like to include this subject in our review operation, but whether that should be one place or not, whether that works or not, I do not know. There are parents who have said that they mainly want to meet virtually. That's happening in all kinds of Facebook groups and stuff. Often this is not facilitated at all by the government, because they do not want us to do so. There are also proposals from the parent panel. My proposal is that we take this subject with us, that we look at it in our review operation, but that it is still a matter of whether this is exactly the outcome. If you could arrest her, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u296	I note that Mrs Simons is prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u297	Perfect. I should like to finish with a final word on Mrs Simons' question. She's talking right now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u298	Mrs Simons is addressing you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u299	I would like to end with an answer to a question you put to us in the second term. You asked what our goal is. That goal is actually twofold: doing real justice and really helping the parents. That's the theme of getting people out of trouble. That's more than the financial compensation. That is a very important issue. The second thing we really want is for people to have confidence in their government and their children to have it. That combination is what drives us every day. And I agree with you on the following. When I started this task myself a year and a half ago, I had the idea that it was something we could solve in a relatively short time. I think that, not only with the numbers of parents who have reported, but with our recovery operation and the lessons we have learned about what people need, we are indeed still working on for a while. I hope it doesn't take much longer. I think someone said 15 years is going to be another 15 years. I hope it can be done faster, but we'll do whatever it takes. So the goal is to do real justice, really help and ensure that people can regain confidence in their government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u300	Thank you. There's another question from Mrs. Leijten, isn't there? Which motion is it about exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u301	There was no judgment on the motion in part No. 73.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u302	I think that's gonna come through the Minister. The Minister is going to give an appreciation of the motion in part No. 73.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u303	Then I would like to put another question to the Secretary of State. It was set in the first term, but I was already through the interruptions. I did not want to have another fight with our chairman, which sometimes happens in heated debates. So I let him go. But I've submitted that there are still people in court who run lawsuits under that code 1043, where the Tax Administration then writes whole defenses. That really haunts people, because people read in it "that's what the government thinks about me." And we know that code 1043 really comes from the wrong line. Just before the trial, a day before the trial, the Tax Administration withdraws and acknowledges that there is a failure. This mechanism is therefore still in place. I can very well imagine that the Secretary of State will not be able to respond to this in the second period. But I would like you to discuss this with Secretary of State Vijlbrief, and that it really is looked at: what legal cases are still going on and how does the Tax Administration stand up to these kinds of codes and these kinds of situations? I don't want people still feeling so devastated by that same Tax Administration right now. I hope that she will be able to inform us of this before the end of the recess. On the one hand, we are building up a recovery operation, and that is difficult enough, and that is what we have been talking about, but on the other hand, the same mechanism is going on. And there should also be a change in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u304	Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u305	I am certainly prepared to take this with me to my colleague, Mr Filipino, because it is specifically on this subject. I did say something about this in my first term, and I would like to repeat that. There are sometimes procedures, because there are also people who say: I do not agree with the decisions. It is precisely our intention, if we carry out procedures, to certainly not wait until we, just a few days before a hearing, look at our documents, organise the business and try to reach a settlement. I also think that we ourselves should be more involved in such a process in such cases and that we should see if we can get out with the citizens concerned. So that's one of the lines we want to enter anyway. If it is specifically about code 1043, I am happy to have that conversation with my colleague and I will ask him to put something in writing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u306	Thank you. We are going to clean up and then I will give the floor to the Minister of Finance to give his appreciation of the motion in part No. 73.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u307	Thank you, Mr President. There is one more motion which I would like to give an appreciation to, and that is Mr Grinwis' motion on item No. 73. To be honest, I have already explained some things about this, but I think that was the moment he was out of the Chamber for a moment. At least then I couldn't find him from my corners of the eye. I tried to explain at that time that the dialogue with the Minister of SZW has already indicated that we really want to see what is possible here, and that in a number of cases we are sure that a number of a investigating official can come up with a letter. But there are also automatically generated pieces. I mentioned the example of 3.5 million AOW statements per month, which is not possible. So if I could interpret the motion in such a way that we can choose between a general number and a specific number, depending on whether it is a personal matter or, if I may call it that, a bulk production, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. If I had to in all cases, I would fear that I would put Mr Koolmees in such a difficult position that I would have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u308	I'm looking at the Grinwis to see if he can agree to this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u309	I do not even think that an interpretation is necessary, because the word "relevant" has been added to the operative part. That gives the Minister all the room to interpret it as he did, but I would like to urge him to put the people first here again, not the rules and the systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u310	I very much agree with that. Mr Grinwis is right to point out to me the operative part, because I think we are indeed in agreement. I would just like to repeat the interpretation of his question in the first place, because that context is so important. Maybe I failed him then and he was in the room, but then I just missed him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u311	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u312	The Grinwis/Leijten motion rightly refers to the Futselaar/Van Raak motion. That motion was adopted unanimously in this Chamber and is already over two years old. That motion states that the government must ensure that every public authority has the possibility of human contact at a low threshold. What has been done with it over the past few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u313	Mrs Leijten is right. Of course, I should have mentioned her as one of the two petitioners of the motion. Frankly, I don't have the entire history of that previous motion on standby. I can say to her that my exchange of views with Snels and Nijboer on what we have now done in the first quarter of this year is a very substantial investment to make contact with a human face, just with an official behind a window, much more easily accessible. That is that amount of more than three-quarters of a billion, because that goes to such activities, among other things. This has certainly been done again over the past few months. What exactly happened to the motion in recent years, I don't know. That is something I must take note of, at least in this debate. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for the exchanges of views here in Parliament. It was an exceptional privilege to do so. I wish you a very fruitful renovation. Of course, I can only agree with what Mr Rutte said and say that I hope to be back here in five years' time. In view of the unity of government policy and after consultation with colleagues in the cabinet, it might be good to note that the whole cabinet would like to see Mr Rutte again, but that it would still be discussed in the ministerial council which state secretariat would then be most appropriate for him in the first cabinet-Schouten. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u314	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thought it was a difficult and important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-07-tweedekamer-10.u315	We're going to vote tomorrow on the motions that have been tabled. We're gonna see what time that is, the beginning of the afternoon or the end of the evening. I thank the rulers. I thank the viewers at home. I thank the Members of Parliament and I thank the support and the messengers for their hard work.
