ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u1	The next item is the VSO NATO Defence ministerial d.d. 17-18 February 2021. I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet, which is a missionary, may be sending 80 additional soldiers to Afghanistan. This is an increase of about 50% compared to the current number. This is happening while the war in Afghanistan, which has been raging for 20 years, has failed. The main reason that Western countries continue this war seems to be that no one wants to take responsibility for the failure. Mr. Chairman. The Minister describes the reason why she may be sending this number of soldiers, even now that she is outgoing, as follows: that is as a precaution, to ensure the security of the Dutch military already present in Afghanistan. That makes sense; soldiers must be safe. But if that were to be the top priority and if that is the real story, why isn't the Minister working on the possibility of bringing all the Dutch military back home now or on 1 May, as was the original plan of the Americans? Mr. Chairman. Why is it now being considered to send 80 additional soldiers, when in 2018, when Afghanistan was more unsafe, and the Netherlands launched the current mission, there was no question of this? Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of questions. Probably I won't get all the answers to that today, but they will lead to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is holding 80 additional soldiers who may be sent to Afghanistan;]] [[calls on the government at the meeting of NATO Defence Ministers later this month to indicate that no additional troops will be sent to Afghanistan for the time being, at least as long as they are decommissioned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28676-354]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to use this VSO to underline a number of points and ask the Minister for clarification. Firstly, the strategic concept of NATO. It is, of course, good that this remains in development in a world where we need to be constantly on our guard against new hybrid cyber and more confessional threats. Can the Minister promise that before the Netherlands agrees to the strategic concept, this will first be discussed with the House of Representatives? Mr President, then about the Emerging and Disruptives Technologies, EDT; that's what it's called. Can the Minister explain something about this EDT? What am I supposed to think about? Can it give the Court a little more insight into the legal and ethical aspects briefly mentioned in the letter? Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, but I do have exactly one minute and twenty seconds, eighteen seconds again. Technically, this would be the last debate we would have with this Chamber, at least today with these spokesmen. In this room are currently one or two... Some of them we don't know if they're coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u5	I would not say it of Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u6	For Mr. Van Helvert, it remains exciting. I have a short line with Martijn. Mr Stoffer will be back, of course, but Mr Koopmans and Mrs Karabulut are saying goodbye today. The Defence Committee has not often been in plenary session, but if there was anything that the Minister also knows, then there was something really going on. I just find it incredibly important to stress from this place that I enjoyed my colleagues who unfortunately are leaving. As number six, hopefully I'll just keep going. The Defence Commission is very special. Yeah, we've been kicking each other's ass, but we're all united when it comes to standing behind the military. I would like to emphasise that here. Despite the fact that I know that there will be debates next week, this is the last time for Mrs Karabulut, Mr Koopmans and a number of other colleagues who do not return. I'm gonna miss you guys, and I hope you guys keep saying that you were defence spokesmen once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u7	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. Thank you for your kind words towards Mrs Karabulut and Mr Koopmans. Mrs Karabulut is far from gone, because she also has a VAO somewhere on February 25th. Yeah, the Foreign Affairs Council, so I'm not gonna say goodbye. We're not officially saying goodbye until March 30th anyway. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see this is supposed to be the last U.S.O. of the Defense Department. I also liked what Mrs Belhaj said. It is true that it is often about life and death, which we debate in the Defense Department. Then it is also good to do that with each other in a good way. The agenda is to prepare for next week's meeting of NATO Defence Ministers. Mrs Karabulut spoke in particular about the fact that the Netherlands is holding 80 extra soldiers to send to Afghanistan, if necessary, following the consultations we have with the Germans. That's because the security of our military in Afghanistan is paramount. The cabinet cannot and does not want to take any of that away from it, not even in a missionary form. We cannot make any concessions. This preparation of 80 military personnel has also been indicated in the annotated agenda.... is a precautionary measure. We're doing this for the security of our troops in Afghanistan. We make sure that they are up-to-date, ready and able to be deployed at the time there is a need to deploy them. That's pure and self-defense only. Mrs Karabulut said that the Americans were going to phase out after 1 May. That's part of what the Defense Ministry is about. As you know, the government has changed in the United States and we need to talk about this again. But we were in Afghanistan all year round anyway, and that is also necessary in view of the situation. We have always said with the support of the Chamber: we are going in together, we are working together and we are going out together. That's condition-based, because we don't make agreements about the duration. We also argued, with a large part of your Chamber, that the Americans suddenly said so, even though the President did so by tweet at the time, after we had spoken to the ministers. This is really about the security of our troops. If necessary, the commander will press the button. That is actually what the cabinet needs to be for and what we should be for together with the Chamber. So they're ready in case they need to. I must therefore simply discourage this motion. Even if it is true that we should withdraw, it may be unsafe, because we are seeing more attacks by the Taliban. And if we had to withdraw on or after 1 May, we would still need a lot of logistical operations, for which people would have to go to Afghanistan first. Moreover, in view of the situation, 1 May would already be impossible to achieve. But the people for that logistics operation must also be able to operate in safety, and that is what these people are for. So I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u9	A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u10	I have not yet heard the beginning of an answer to the two questions I have put to the Minister. So I would like to start by having an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u11	I have indicated to you that we believe that it is necessary for the safety of our people, who are there with the Germans in Mazar-e-Sharif, and that the Taliban are indeed preparing more attacks. I'm sure you've read a lot about that yourself. So we're gonna get these people ready in case the commander pushes the button because of the safety of our people. And these people are also needed if they are to be phased out!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u12	But the question was: if it was really about the security of the military, why doesn't the minister have a scenario behind him to bring soldiers back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u13	I answered that. We have a deal that we'll go in together and go out together: out together, at home together. That will have to be done on the basis of conditions. That's what we agreed on and that's why. We are there to bring security to the region and to train and advise people. We still do that, even though the conditions in Afghanistan are unfortunately we all don't know very well. So there is every reason to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u14	Finalizing, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u15	The second point on which I have not received an answer is why we are now suddenly thinking about extra military, while in 2018 it was even more unsafe. At that time, there was no need for additional military personnel and I therefore wonder whether all this has nothing to do with the fact that the Americans have reduced the number of troops. Doesn't that have something to do with it? And doesn't it have to do with the Minister coûte que coûte after all these years...? This year, the West has been there for almost twenty years and after all the training that has been given, the Afghan army can also tell the Minister that even though he is still not defending himself. Doesn't the minister just go blind after the Americans and just want to stay in Afghanistan, even if our presence is a major failure? If it were really her to do security, our troops would finally be brought back and Afghanistan would be returned to the Afghans. But that's not the point, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u16	As you know, we are in Afghanistan precisely to ensure that there is an army that can protect itself. That's what we're here for. It is our duty to ensure that there is security and that it is future-proof. It's hard enough because it's a very complicated situation. It is true that American troops have been withdrawn and that they must also look at support. We can operate very well there with the Germans and we also have a mandate to do the right things with each other. The conditions are just not yet as we imagined them to be. A lot of things have been achieved, but we simply differ...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u17	I know!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u18	About what to do with each other. Therefore, there is nothing I can do but discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u19	That's what you said. And now for Mrs Belhaj's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u20	Then there is Mrs Belhaj's question about the strategic concept. If we take a step in that direction, we shall first inform the Chamber. That's what it says in the annotated agenda. With regard to EDT, Mrs Belhaj, if I understand correctly, is concerned that she hears about what has been agreed on it. I will include a more detailed passage on this in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u21	A brief question, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u22	That's right, a quick question. The concept of 'legal-ethical aspects' was used, while we are used to talking about 'human control'. That is why I was wondering if there was a reason why it was formulated that way. I would like to go into this more specifically after NATO Ministerial, so that we continue to use the same term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u23	I still assume that we will continue to use the same terms. I will bring it in as I have discussed it with you over the past few years. In the report that we send you after the Defence Ministerial, I will indicate more specifically how this discussion has been conducted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u24	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-21.u25	We are going to vote on Mrs Karabulut's motion.
