ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u1	We now proceed with the treatment of the laws on the aggregation and reclassification of a number of municipalities. I'm not going to rename them. I did so this morning, and I shall do so in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u2	We have come to the answer from the cabinet. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nor will I take up my speaking time to list the reclassifications we are discussing today. I would like to make a few introductory remarks, answer the general questions first and then pass through the five reclassifications before us. May I begin by noting that municipal reclassification is not an end in itself, and I say this to Mr Van Raak, not to BZK, not to the cabinet, not to municipalities. It always sees the social challenges facing municipalities. They're big and sometimes complicated. Indeed, think of the decentralisations and the effects they have had in the social domain. But think also of the current corona crisis and what has come of it towards the municipalities. Think of the landmark; the houses that need to be built. Think about the energy transition and the Climate Agreement. These are all subjects which it is good that directors carry out in close cooperation and coordination with society. In doing so, the involvement of citizens is an end in itself and the basis of support is the same. In the case of a reclassification, of course, a balance is always made, including by the municipalities themselves. It is a balance between the need to increase the power of these municipalities and the desire that everyone shares to maintain the proximity of government. I believe that people want an accessible and approachable administration, which is able to support the inhabitants, to be there for the vulnerable people in the Netherlands and to ensure an adequate level of the facilities that people are entitled to, of course, against people-acceptable burdens. That is difficult and that sometimes leads to the feeling of a split. How do you do all that right? That is why I would like to express my appreciation for the municipalities, including these municipalities, which have found a route and a way out of that gap. This is what we are discussing here today: five reclassification laws, which are the result of a long, but also carefully progressing road. It is the second set of reclassifications that has been established under the new and thus also current municipal reclassifications policy framework. This policy framework has been created by the cabinet after the experience with the first reclassifications I was allowed to defend here, then still the tail of the old policy framework. These proposals all stem from initiatives taken by the municipality itself. All of them. They're actually reclassifications as we'd like to see them here in this room. They come from below, with the aim of reaching municipalities that are equipped with their tasks, with support from the population and in the region. That does not mean, of course, that everyone agrees with this. There are residents or neighboring municipalities who might have preferred a different solution than the solution that exists here, because, for example, they feel more involved in another neighbouring municipality, or because there are certain insights, including content, which lead to a different conclusion. That should have played a role in the balance of interests. That's what happened. Alternatives have been weighed and a choice has been made, at the place where we all want that choice to be made, namely in the municipal councils of the municipalities concerned. The proposals then come to BZK and we look at them in relation to the policy framework. The proposals have been assessed on the due diligence of the process and on a number of criteria set out in the policy framework. And of course there are also comments to be made on what is ahead. On the whole, however, the proposals are in line with what we have put forward in the policy framework. That's why they're ahead of us. I would also like to thank the President, and through the President of the Chamber, for your willingness to deal with these legislative proposals now, just before the recess. I do the same on behalf of the municipalities concerned. Because for the municipalities it is of course very pleasant to know if... Sorry, I just got distracted by a noise, Chairman, excuse. But it is important and good for the municipalities to know whether they can count on the assent of the Chamber so that they can continue to prepare for the reclassification. I hope that these introductory words show that there is no agenda other than the entirely public and well-known agenda of the policy framework. Mr Van Raak kind of suggested that. I think I have been very consistent in this, even since the Thorbeckelezing of October 2018. I have just said that uniformity is not the solution, and that differentiation and customization are better. Above all, we must ensure that municipalities are always able to find a good balance, as I have just emphasised. I really attach great importance to this debate of support and that it is carried through in a careful way. I sent a letter to the Chamber about the future of public administration. I also mentioned the fact that only redefining is not the solution. Of course, much more is needed. Each time it is necessary to consider what the right measure is for a particular task. Sometimes that's the smallest size, the neighborhood. Sometimes it's the region, sometimes it's the country. So you have to differentiate. You can also think of many ways to be as close to your inhabitants as possible within municipalities. I do not believe that in the past everything was always better, as Mr Van Raak sketches. Nor do I think that uniformity is the solution, and I therefore agree with him that the idea that every municipality should have 100,000 inhabitants is not going to lead to anything. I believe in differentiation and in customization. Mr President, there are a number of more general questions. Mr Sneller and Mr Van der Molen asked themselves and me about the problems you sometimes have between balancing a small majority versus a large minority. That is, of course, an important point in our democracy. Mr Van der Molen said that municipalities would like to be "reorganised undivided." That sounds a little crazy. I don't know if it's good Dutch either, but that's what's going on here. The city council looks at the law and the criteria for acceptance. Who's gonna make the decision in the end? It is very important, but I have just said that, of course, you can never guarantee that everyone agrees with this decision. Of course, that's not how it works in a democracy. So in the end, after going through the careful process, it is a good thing that the city council, and hence the parliament, makes that assessment. They must assess and weigh the general interest for the entire municipality. That is also what we agreed in the reclassification procedure. So: work on increasing support; especially if there are multiple cores in a municipality with different angles. I understand all the questions that are being asked about that. At the same time, they are not given a single answer, because it is different on a case-by-case basis. You can also see this in the reclassification proposals before you. I can imagine why we did not choose to split up, which is, of course, also an option that is even more explicit in a proposal for a reclassification where a split was not chosen, but where the choice was made for simple redefining. Then there is Mr Krol's question, but perhaps the interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u4	I've just missed the way you've built up your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u5	I was just answering the general questions. That's about four more. After that, I'm gonna walk through the reclassifications one by one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u6	Then I would answer the general questions first. Mr Van der Molen will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u7	Fine. Mr Krol said that it would be best to always hold a referendum as a basis, a citizen's consultation, before the city council takes a decision. We have said that we leave it to the municipalities to assess the social support for reclassification. That's their choice. They can hold a citizen consultation, a referendum, but they can also do it in a different way by organising meetings and village talks. The form of participation is therefore free. A referendum is fine, but if another choice is made... I think it's the most important thing that it's been done, so people have been heard and participated. Mr Krol also referred to a previous reclassification, namely that of Groningen and Haren. If I understood him correctly, he said an independent investigation would be obstructed. That is not the case, at least not from me or from BZK. I think there's an issue about a Wob request. That Wob request is just being treated nicely. It is not at a stage in which I can say more about it in this Chamber, but that is what I know about what Mr Krol referred to. Another reclassification is an initiative of the province of Gelderland. That reclassification isn't on the agenda here, so that's why I'm treating it right now. There is the discussion about the municipality of Scherpenzeel. That is an ongoing process, regional and local. That process is not yet at a stage where I can assess whether or not it fits within the policy framework. The Gelderland HS have established the reclassification design. My assessment will only follow after the reclassification advice has also been adopted by the Provincial States and the views have been taken into account. It's true that the GS have informed me. This must also be in line with the policy framework. In response to this, I gave a few points of attention. I've informed the Chamber about that, too. I am therefore following developments with particular attention. I also speak with all stakeholders, so that I can consider that in due course; by the way, when it comes to this, because of course I do not know yet. But at least that's what happened. Finally, Mr Snoeren asked for a different reclassification from the VVD to five lord countries. He suggested that now, in retrospect, it would appear that the Ministry might have taken a more proactive role. On the contrary, I think it is important that, with the new policy framework, we have improved the information position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's a good thing. Then you also have the opportunity to follow what is going on and possibly think along with it until intervention. At the same time, I think you should be very reluctant about that. Especially if you want the reclassifications from the bottom up, clues or interventions do not fit very well. Redeployment from the bottom means: keeping a distance and balancing a little between leaving the primate with the municipalities, letting the provinces take their responsibility and watching. In the end, this applies to the Minister and Parliament as a whole. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the five specific reclassifications that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u8	The minister talked about simple reshuffling; that is Dutch anyway. The Minister said that we cannot find a reclassification for which 100% of the people are in favour. I can understand that. We hardly experience that in a democracy; there will always be opponents. The question I asked the Minister was very much about the process before that. The minister says, if I have to judge it, I'm just looking at what the councils have done. But then who weighs the due diligence? Is it then ultimately up to the Chamber to weigh, because we still have our hands free, or does the Minister consider that within its own policy framework? That goes beyond just what the vote on the Council has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u9	Mr Van der Molen is quite right about that. It goes beyond what the vote on the council has been. The outcome of the vote in the city council is very important, because that is the parliament that decides on the proposal that will eventually be forwarded. However, from the policy framework, we are indeed also looking at how this involvement of residents in the process prior to the proposal that was adopted in the city council took place. How, for example, did the choice of simple reclassification come about, in my view, was Mr Van der Molen's question on................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ For example, has the possibility of a split seriously occurred? How are people involved? Has this been done by means of a citizen consultation or is it organised in a different way? So that's all part of the game. It's not just to see if there's been a vote in the city council and what the outcome is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u10	In her reply, the Minister said: we are going to look more closely at the split to see if it has been considered. That means more than is currently the case. That's how I interpret the Minister's words. Is that right? And how does the Minister operate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u11	My suggestion is that this is a hand-out that I would like to do here; you should always try to learn from what is ahead in order to give more explicit motivation to municipalities in the future why they did not opt for a split in a reclassification. Of course, why they chose a split is also possible. In fact, I am even more concerned with asking for the reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u12	The Minister also talks about the administrative action of the province in the letter and in the new reclassification framework, also in relation to Scherpenzeel. That is not the issue, but it will be topical. Could the Minister give a little more explanation? What exactly does the Minister mean by the administrative action of the provinces? Because some provinces take a somewhat wait-and-see attitude and let it really come from the bottom up, but there are also provinces that are more steering on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u13	I am not quite sure what Mr Bishop is asking me. The powers, tasks and role of the provinces is, I think, clearly described. Whether a province opts for a very proactive approach or for a slightly different, more laidback attitude is a choice that they can make within the limits of the powers and tasks that provinces have received. It could also be a political choice. I can't test that directly. All I can do is check if they're just doing their legal duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u14	But doesn't that quickly conflict with the ambition that it should come from the bottom up as much as possible, precisely from the municipalities, from the communities, to speak with Mr Van Raak? Then, surely, the province can choose a very reluctant position in relation to such a process? Unless, of course, things go wrong in such a municipality and the power of administration is demonstrably and objectively inadequate; we are not talking about that. I'm just referring to a vital congregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u15	Yeah, but I think that's exactly the point. Our new approach since this cabinet period is, in my view, that there is a certain reluctance to reorganise from the bottom up. This means that in principle the municipalities themselves shape this and that the province can have a certain procedural role in this. But the provinces, for example, also have supervision over municipal finances. Mr Bishop talks about "evidently lacking administrative power." That is, of course, the discussion we have had here: what is clearly lacking administrative power? I think it is a good thing that provinces really keep an eye on that and accompany municipalities in doing so. If municipalities themselves do not seem to come out of it, provinces can play that role. This may eventually result in a reclassification, but not a reclassification imposed from above.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u16	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u17	Thank you for this explanation. If I understand the Minister's words correctly, she agrees with me that this administrative position of the province implies that if a province wishes to play an active or proactive role in a municipal reclassification, prior to administrative legislation, it must be made clear that a municipality is clearly failing in its tasks or in its financial management or in the performance of all kinds of obligations it has. That is, in fact, the clarification of the administrative positioning of the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u18	It's not always that way to quantify, I guess. It is sometimes also the quality of the administration that needs attention. I think it is okay if provinces take a good look at that, when a college of B and W reports to the province and finds that things are not going well or, vice versa, when a province says: we are seeing a problem in this municipality, also vis-à-vis other municipalities. The province is well positioned for that. Mr Bishop's considerations certainly play an important role in this, but it is not the case that you can indicate on a spreadsheet when this happens or not. I think a little administratively fingerspitzengefühl is included.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u19	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u20	Thank you. Then I'll start with the reclassification of Amsterdam-Weesp. Actually, there weren't too many questions about that. I think Mr Bishop was right to point out that if you cycle from Amsterdam to the Johan Cruijff ArenA, you will pass through Diemen. So Amsterdam-Zuidoost doesn't border on Amsterdam, you might say, but then I almost get into Mr.Bosma's words and I have to be careful about that. Weesp therefore borders Amsterdam, because that municipality borders Amsterdam-Zuidoost. Mr Bishop had already pointed that out. But there was actually no question about that. Mr Van Raak did ask a question to which Mr Snoeren attached himself. Weesp is given a separate status in the new municipality, because a board of directors is indeed set up. Mr Van Raak wondered whether this would actually be possible under the law. The city council can set up administrative committees and assign tasks to them. The elected municipal council determines which tasks can be performed by that administrative committee, what the working method is and what budget the governing committee receives for that purpose. This can be done, but does not have to go according to an election of the members of the board of directors. That's not mandatory. It's okay. It's okay. Elections are carried out under municipal electoral regulations. So that's the space that congregations have in it. We already know this, because it has already happened, for example in Amsterdam, but also in Rotterdam. This method was also discussed here, after the abolition of the submunicipalities. It's been a while. So it's actually a standing method they're familiar with in Amsterdam and that's going to be applied in Weesp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u21	I give that to the people in Weesp heartily. I'd even give it to Weesp to just stay a municipality. It's a goddamn city, but I still have a question about this. If that becomes a board of directors, then that is a committee of the city council of Amsterdam. There have been elections to the city council of Amsterdam. It has a certain composition. That city council is going to make a commission. Then how can you hold elections for that committee again? That's double-up. That's impossible, isn't it? If that committee gets a budget, I think it will be impossible at all, because that budget right was with the elected city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u22	I told you, this has been a standing practice. We know that from the period 2014-2018 in Amsterdam. This is a power vested in the city council. It can set up an administrative committee, which can delegate tasks to it, and it can provide budgets to it. Mr Van Raak always likes to remind us that Weesp is a city. That's right. Weesp has had city rights for a very, very long time. As far as I know, The Hague still doesn't have one. But Weesp isn't just Weesp either. Maybe that's interesting to say, too. Weesp consists of two more cores: the Horn and Uitermeer if I am right. In 1966 Weesperkarspel was added to Weesp. I don't think anyone remembers that, not even the people in Weesp, but that's how it is. In other words, it's not as immutable as it seems, not even for Weesp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u23	Well, I do find Weesperkarspel to fit Weesp in one way or another, but well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u24	Since 1966.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u25	Sure. The Minister is right to say that this system of administrative committees with its own elections and budgets existed in Amsterdam. I remember that, but it's been abolished. And why has that been abolished? Because it didn't fit the law. It has not been abolished for nothing, because it would be contrary to the new law. I would ask the Minister to look into this again, because I find it very strange to vote in favour of a law which violates the law in its implementation. This system stopped in 2018 because it could not, because there was criticism. There was criticism from all kinds of state lawyers that this couldn't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u26	The city council appoints the members to this committee. Mr Van Raak would prefer to see things differently, but this is a matter for the city council. His question is: can this, therefore, set up this board of directors for Weesp with these powers and with this budget? Yeah, you can. That's the law. So there is no objection to doing so. Mr. Chairman. Then I leave Amsterdam and Weesp again for what they are. I haven't actually heard any questions about Purmerend and De Beemster, but a statement that I would like to mention, namely that it is impossible for there to be internal coherence between a new building community, as it was called; I don't believe that it does justice to Purmerend and De Beemster, which is a rural area. Then I'm going back to Amsterdam. I would like to point out that besides Amsterdam-Zuidoost, we also have Rural Noord in Amsterdam, a beautiful area: Ransdorp, Holysloot, very green, very many ditches. I think there's a lot of skating going on right now. That's how I imagine it with De Beemster and Purmerend. Apparently, that's what I'm getting for an intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u27	A brief question, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u28	We have a reclassification framework. One of the important considerations is whether there is internal coherence between municipalities. Well, I can think of anything, but between Purmerend and De Beemster I don't see it. It is now said: "Why do they fit together? Because they are complementary." You know what else is complementary? The Beemster, Purmerend and Weesp. I could also defend that they are beautifully complementary. Then why doesn't it become a municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u29	I don't know what Mr Van Raak is up to in the rest of his career. He's gonna be able to make a fuss about this. They'll love him in the region, I think. It is also well positioned, approximately in the middle. Mr. Chairman. I would then like to go to the issue of Koedijk and Sint Pancras in Heerhugowaard-Langedijk in relation to Alkmaar. Mrs Özütok had some questions about this. She also marked out that there are people from those two neighborhoods who have concerns. I can imagine him, and I know him. I also think it is a good thing that these concerns have surfaced in the process that has gone through. People say: our orientation is more on the neighboring municipalities. If you look at the map, that is understandable again, because Alkmaar actually continues in Koedijk and in Sint Pancras. So that orientation is already there. It's actually more on Alkmaar than on the municipalities they belong to now. These are concerns that have also been heard and weighed in the city council. This is a municipality that pursues an active core policy, which intends, as they themselves call it, to rule without limit and which therefore also wants to deal seriously with the signals of these people. I think it is right to give the proposal and, in future, to give the new municipality the confidence that it wants to weigh and restore the importance of all its inhabitants, including these inhabitants, as far as is necessary. I think that is very important to Mr Snoeren's question about the results of the core policy. The intention is very strongly to do this right there. Mr Snoeren said, I just thought, that he had received positive signals about this. Well, me too. So that's what we've both heard. There are just a lot of conversations made by the municipal authorities with the inhabitants. It has emerged that there is no doubt about the importance of a merger. Residents want to see, above all, a logical improvement in their immediate living environment. That is, of course, what people are about. And they also want the municipality to show that it wants to communicate with them and make them participate in the decision-making process. So I think it is important to continue to monitor and evaluate this development, as Mr Snoeren also said. I'd be happy to promote that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop specifically asked about the simple reclassification. In this case, an important motive for the merger is in that financial position, in putting the housekeeping book in order. I think that should appeal to Mr Bishop. In the case of a joint merger, the revenue of the new municipality would also fall, while costs would increase. That has to do with specific characteristics. In the case of the core of Saint Pancras, this is a higher average WOZ value. That would disproportionately affect the financial position. And of course, what is common here is that there is already an official merger between Heerhugowaard and Langedijk. If you split that up, there will be very big organisational consequences. The local council of Langedijk has said: Koedijk and Sint Pancras are just part of it, they fit well with the new plans and, as I said to Mrs Özütok, they will therefore do everything in their power to feel represented, despite their main orientation on Alkmaar, also served by the new municipal council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u30	I am pleased to hear that the concerns of residents are recognised and recognised. That is why it is important to watch during the journey. Does the Minister intend to include the Chamber on how these plans are worked out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u31	If the Chamber appreciates that, I'm sure we can find a form for that. Then we should take a look. I do not think you want to repeat the work of the city council, you want to be able, of course, to assess whether the expectations are fulfilled. Let me give some thought to the form in which this can be done, but I am certainly prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u32	We see very often in the Minister's response to a positive assessment of a reclassification that she appreciates the positive introduction of core policies. This core policy often consists of additional attention to the cores, the laying down of powers there or the provision of space to share budgets. Does the Minister agree with me that, regardless of the size of a municipality, it should actually be the most normal thing in the world that a municipal government wants to deal with its cores in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u33	Yes, I have to agree with Mr Van der Molen, but I think it is a good thing to underline this. That responds to the concerns that people in those cores have. So it should be the most normal thing in the world, but I think it's okay to make it explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u34	I ask this because the Minister and I share that that should actually be the attitude of the administration. But I see so often in the reaction of ministers the following: this municipality is getting much bigger, but from now on it is going to pursue core policy, and then it is good. That is obviously a sort of weighting factor: something that should actually be the most normal thing in the world would then be a plus to eventually agree to a reclassification. Am I making that judgment right? Otherwise, it will not be a weighting factor after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u35	Let's just say it's a sine qua nun: something that has to happen anyway. That is why it is good if it is made explicit. I agree with Mr Van der Molen that it would be a bit crazy if the opposite would be the case, so if a new municipality wants to become a new municipality, but does not intend to pursue a core policy. In that sense, I fully agree with Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u37	I would like to continue the merging of Boxmeer, Cuijk, Mill and Sint Hubert, and Sint Anthonis into the Land of Cuijk. A number of questions have been asked about this and they are mainly seen in Grave's position. I'm gonna go see if I can do them all right. I shall begin with Mr Sneller's question. Mr Sneller asked: what can I do to ensure that Grave is ready for a reclassification next time, if the will existed? I'll come back to all the other questions later. I shall return to the interrupting debate I just had on the role of the province. It is initially located in the province, the province of North Brabant. I'll keep in close contact with that. The province is already working on this, for example by using a mediator to ensure that the administrative situation in Grave is normalized. The municipality of Grave is under preventive financial supervision of the province, so also there the province has a supervisory role to ensure that Grave also recovers financially and comes into balance. There's a service agreement with Grave. Mrs Özütok informed about this, because she was worried about it. At least, for the people of Grave. All the councils, including Grave's, have agreed to the service agreement, so the expectation is that it will come off the ground, even though it may be a bit tough. The mediator, whom I just mentioned, has been appointed to pull that off. I think we can have good hope for a positive result, but I do not want to anticipate that further. Again, we expect it to work. But if that is not the case, the municipality of Grave must find a solution to ensure that the service can continue on 1 January next year. This can be done on its own, regardless of the other reclassifications. As is well known, it does not have to be subject to financial supervision to affect the provision of services to residents. But it's not good on the other hand, of course. It does mean that something is going on and that Grave's city council may be faced with difficult choices. Mr Van Raak asked: would it not be better to wait and see what happens in Grave with the referendum that they are going to hold, and only then to proceed with this reclassification? I find that really undesirable, because then let the other four municipalities that have made the choice for this reclassification become, in a way, the victims of the situation in Grave. They've made a lot of attempts to involve Grave. I think we should respect Grave's choice, but I also think we should respect the choice of the other four municipalities. After all, we do not yet know what choice Grave will eventually make. Grave can, if they have that wish, later join the new municipality. That option is there, but if you postpone it, the impact on the other four is disproportionate. I wouldn't be in favour of that. I've had the financial situation. I've had this question, too. I think those were the questions about this reclassification. Finally, I have Landerd and Uden, the new municipality of Maashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u38	What I missed in the answer is the following. The reply and the note state that 1 January 2026 is the first opportunity for Grave to join. Do you see opportunities to speed this up, not by holding elections in four or five years' time, but possibly after two years, if that choice is made by the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u39	I think that could be done in itself, but the question is how realistic that is. That is why I am very reluctant to do so. The choice that has now been made is that the four continue and that Grave still has a number of problems to solve. I don't think it's realistic to expect it to be much faster than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u41	Then I'll get to the last reclassification that's in front of me. Many questions have been asked and comments made. Landerd and Uden have opted in a careful process for a simple reclassification, so no split, knowing that part of the inhabitants of Schaijk would prefer to be merged with Oss. By the way, there are also many people in Schaijk who are positive about this reclassification. So that shows exactly the dilemma that this debate began with. The municipalities then weighed up the arguments against a division of Schaijk. One argument was that they want to have a good and robust level of scale in the new municipality, which would undermine Schaijk's separation. Another argument was that it is important for Landerd to participate on an equal footing with Uden in the reclassification process, in order to properly defend and safeguard the interests of the three cores. The division of Schaijk would therefore be adversely affected. Once again, we are aware of the objections and the Chamber has made them very clear, but our assessment is that there is sufficient overall support for this reclassification, including social and regional. Internal cohesion Mr Van Raak just pointed out that within the new municipality is large, although the core Schaijk has a double orientation, as we also saw at Koedijk and Sint Pancras in their orientation to Alkmaar. That doesn't really change the new reclassification. The question is what you can still do, knowing that there are these objections. I think it is up to the new municipality to make sure that also the inhabitants who would have preferred to have seen a different outcome feel heard and seen. I base myself on the fact that here too the new municipality places a great deal of emphasis on that core policy, which Mr Van der Molen has just pointed out, and that it will pay great attention to the importance of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u42	Did you answer all the questions with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u43	No, not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u44	Well, then I'd like to suggest we do that first. Then I will go to Mr Van Raak and Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u45	In several ways, many spokesmen have asked for other options, for example the option to add Schaijk to Oss. I've just argued why that's not wise. Questions have also been asked, among others by Mrs Özütok, about the process. Has the process ahead of the proposal been good enough? This proposal has had a very long run. It was ultimately the main theme during two municipal elections. The polling of the people's opinion has therefore actually been carried out through elections. That's not unimportant, is it? Actually, in 2018, ways have been found, among other things by mobile living room conversations, which could then still be found in all cores. There has also been a referendum. The final choice was then made in the 2018 Council elections. There has therefore been an extensive process towards these municipal elections, but there has also been a process of participation, so that residents could always express their views in the formation of the new municipality. The arguments of the Schaijk Committee of Action, which is of course a very active action committee, have been known from the outset and we also weigh in the decision-making process. I would really like to say that we must have a great deal of understanding. So do I, as do the municipal councils that have decided on this matter. But all in all, you have to make a decision somewhere. The balance has thus fallen to the disadvantage of the division of Schaijk. Again, that happened after a careful process. There were also questions about the name Maashorst. That is a power and a choice of the municipality itself. The municipality is also competent to do so in accordance with Article 158 of the Municipal Law. They chose this name at a very early stage. That has actually become a symbol of their cooperation, I think. From Landerd and Uden there is not much need to change that name. I do understand that at this stage they say: we cannot do anything else. Perhaps you can conclude afterwards that Landerd and Uden could have been more responsive in the direction of the other municipalities in the region during the process. But it's their jurisdiction and their choice. So I don't want to go into that myself. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I will wait for the interruptions to see if I have answered the questions in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u46	Fine. Then I have Mr Van Raak, Mrs Özütok and Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u47	The people in Schaijk and the people in Reek don't want it. They don't want their congregation to be dissolved, and if they have to, they want to be with Oss. In Oss, they're friendly people, so they say, "Come on, if you have to, with pleasure." Why can't I? I tried to listen to the Minister's arguments. It was quite a story, but I actually only heard one argument, namely: if Schaijk and Reek come to Oss, as the people in Schaijk and Reek and Oss want, then the new municipality does not have enough inhabitants. Is that the argument that the new town doesn't have enough inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u48	That is one of the arguments. And I didn't hear Mr Van Raak say that the people in Landerd and Uden aren't friendly? I can't imagine he meant to say that, because we all know about Oss, but that's really no different in Landerd and Uden. Of course, it has nothing to do with that. No, it's one of the arguments. I have also always argued that we know that in Schaijk there is an active group of people who say: we really would have preferred it to be different. But there is also a group of people in Schaijk who think it is a good idea. I have also argued that the orientation on Oss in itself is of course nothing wrong. That doesn't have to change at all; see the example of Alkmaar. The orientation itself of course does not change because of the reclassification either. What people feel involved in doesn't have to change because of the name change of a particular municipality. I don't think it's any different in Weesp. There are people in Weesp who are very focused on Amsterdam, who perhaps commute every day if it isn't corona time. And there are people who are very focused on the rural area. It is therefore one of the arguments. But the main argument is of course: is there a careful process through the municipal councils, with participation? I have just outlined that it has been a lengthy and indeed careful process in my view, where this is one of the arguments, but certainly not the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u49	The mininster keeps saying that she has a lot of arguments, but I don't hear them, except that I now hear that "the process has gone through carefully." The new municipality must therefore become large and the process must be carefully completed. Well, that's what we're gonna do as a room. The people in Schaijk and the people in Reek don't want it. They're already here. I just heard from the representatives of the CDA and GroenLinks that they wanted to table an amendment to get Schaijk and Reek to Oss. I wonder if that amendment is going to come, because that could make it. I am therefore very grateful to the Minister for his reply, but I look forward to the handicrafts, the amendment, of CDA and GroenLinks. I will at least vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u50	Good. Then it's obvious. Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u51	Our amendment is on its way. I welcome the support of the SP in advance. The Minister says that the process has been carefully completed with regard to Schaijk. But when I look at that, I have a different opinion. The same applies to the inhabitants of Schaijk, who are all passing on all these views and reactions to us again. There's really a powerful signal coming from Schaijk that they want to join Oss. Their argument is as follows. There was a referendum in 2015, in which several scenarios were presented. So it has not been a simple question. So the explanation of that was difficult. It was then promised that a further consultation would be held, and that was abandoned. So Schaijk doesn't feel heard. How can the Minister say that it has been a careful process and that there is social support for this reclassification?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u52	I said immediately at the beginning of my answer that I am certainly aware that they are in Landerd and Uden also because part of Schaijk sees this differently. I agree with Mrs Özütok. If you just look at the whole of the process and at the part of acceptance in that process, it will result in you being able and having to assess, on balance at the end of the process, the basis for that reclassification as sufficient, both administratively and socially. Ms Özütok spoke about the 2015 referendum. The result is still quite difficult to interpret. A number of questions were asked to the inhabitants, on which several answers could be ticked. Mrs Özütok referred to this earlier. But that is not the only thing on which they base themselves. The basis of support has been established in several ways, including through the elections, as I have just argued. Those reclassifications were a very important part of that back then. The same applies to the very extensive discussions with the inhabitants. So once again, I find it difficult, because you prefer that there is even wider support and that the Chamber is not still being asked by this group of people to amend this at this stage of the reclassification. I have not yet seen Mrs Özütok's amendment, but I also find it difficult that, while we ourselves invite people to work as far as possible from the bottom to a reclassification, we still have the question here at this stage as to whether this has happened to a sufficient extent. Again, as far as I can see and judge it, that is to a sufficient extent the case, which does not mean that there are no people with serious arguments, who must also be heard seriously, who look at it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u53	I have a different impression from the file. Also in planning there are 60 views in the province of Schaijk, 46 focused on the fact that people from Schaijk prefer Oss. So perhaps the Minister is prepared to reconsider her decision. I would really like to call on her to reconsider this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u54	Okay. You're the one who called it in. I suddenly see Mr Van Otterloo in the PVV Group. Are you looking? First, an interruption by Mr Bishop and then one by Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u55	I'd still like to stick a little bit deeper. I have not for nothing started my story with reflection repentance and repentance are too heavy concepts in this regard.... and the question to what extent it can lead to adjustment. If we realize that Landerd is a municipality that is only 25 years old and is a fairly random combination of three cores between which social, social or political cohesion has never arisen, then that is a finding that we can take into consideration what is a better destination for each of these three cores, rather than asking us what is a better destination for the municipality Landerd? Then you should dare to go back and say: okay, if the orientation of such a core as Schaijk is more focused on Oss, and that of Uden for example on Zeeland, then we should fix this looming error from the past? Isn't that what customization means in municipal reclassifications?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u56	Well, sure. I fully agree with Mr Bishop. But of course that is something that needs to be weighed in that, in this case, long process there on the spot, locally. I therefore find it difficult to come back to that kind of question at this stage, if this has been done to a sufficient extent. It is very legitimate for Mr Bishop to ask this question, but I think the assessment here is above all: has there been sufficient attention to this issue among the municipalities that propose it? Again, my opinion is that that has happened. I understand that some people are questioning this, but I can only say that it happened on the basis of what I can judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u57	If there are wide-ranging questions about how consultation of residents has taken place, I think it is precisely in the competence of the Minister, or as far as I am concerned of the House of Representatives, that we say: wait a minute, there are so many uncertainties here and certain things have not been done that we want to have a clear understanding of how each of these cores acts and stands in that whole process. I'd like to give that to the Minister. Such an amendment could give rise to a declaration and to the adoption of the legislative proposal on this point. Let me ask you another question. The minister says that the municipality has chosen Maashorst. I read in the documents a lot of criticism of the way in which this took place. Then the Minister says, "Yes, but it's just the way it is." But wait a minute: why shouldn't we let the expert committee on geography take a critical look at this? We do have that responsibility. Leading should not be: the municipality has chosen it for so long...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u58	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u59	If that has not been done carefully, it must be done again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u60	I find that difficult, because at the very beginning of the cabinet period, the Chamber told me that we should be careful when re-assessing from above and sitting on the seat of the municipalities. I couldn't agree more. I try not to sit on the seat of the city council as much as possible, but simply to give a very careful assessment, from the process and the policy framework, of a proposed reclassification that has been achieved from the bottom up. Mr Bishop has two points. His last point is the choice of the name. That is actually one hundred percent of the power of the municipality, which comes from the municipal law. Mr Bishop also believes and acknowledges that. I told you, you might wonder if the congregations in the process should have been a little more responsive, because in the end, it brings them a conflict with their own neighbors. That is not pleasant, not even for the new municipality of Maashorst. But it did happen. So I don't tend to take over because that's what happened there. The same applies to the public support and the weighting of people's views in the two municipalities concerned, and also to the Schaijk action group belongs to Oss, which is what this is about. I do not want to repeat myself, but my assessment based on the competence I have when it comes to the law and the proposal I make here is that I would not want to do the whole process again, because it has been a very long process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u61	I will not repeat my question, but I would like to put the finger on it again. I wholeheartedly agree with the principle that a reclassification should be made from the bottom. Then you're dealing with the tension field whether it's about administrative and/or social support. Preferably both, but the Ministry and the House of Representatives must ensure that this procedure is done very carefully. At the moment when we see that there are gaps, we must also have the courage to say: boys, a step in the right direction; this really needs to be clarified. Then we accept the outcome that comes out of it. We shouldn't want to force a reclassification. In fact, we have to stay far from that. But we have to make sure that the procedure is hyper-careful. I note, in all honesty, that there are real gaps in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u62	The Minister states that she finds it complicated to intervene at this stage of the discussion. I understand that very well, administratively, but does the Minister agree with me that this is a legislative proposal of hers, which we, as a Chamber, as co-legislator, can also agree with? That is at the heart of the matter. Surely this Chamber cannot be bound by a procedure which, in the eyes of some Members of Parliament, is careless, to refrain from any kind of adjustment. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u63	The opposite is, of course, the case, because it requires the assent of the Chamber because it is legislation. We're here as legislators, so that's right. I would ask the Chamber, like myself, to look very closely at what is ahead and what decision-making and the proposal are based on. Has that been careful? Has it been difficult? Is everything taken into account? Are all the views involved? I believe that is the case. Again, the fact that there is a group of residents who are very active is something I am very aware of. I think that is a relevant fact, but I think it is wise to do what the municipal councils have decided to do on the basis of the process that has gone through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u64	Eventually, it's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u65	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I have a second question for the Minister on the internal cohesion of the municipality. The Minister says: it is not a problem at all that parts of a municipality are organized at a completely different core. But what is the internal cohesion? Then you could really put everything under an administrative unit whether or not they have something with the main place. Is it a desirable final picture of the minister that we arrive at municipalities where no one has anything to do with each other but because the products are supplied in time from the central town hall, there is sufficient talk of a municipality? Should I interpret the Minister's remark in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u66	I think that where Mr Van der Molen said "organised" he meant "oriented," because there is no organization; it is the orientation of people, just as you can feel in The Hague Fries. So that doesn't change it. That's what I meant to say. The orientation through geography and history does not always run neatly along the boundaries of the municipality. I just tried to illustrate that with Weesp. So that's what I meant to say. That too is an element of the overall weighting, in which other considerations do indeed play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u67	I'd like to come back to the naming first. The Minister is right to say that it is formally a competence of the municipality, which we find further on from the trial. But now it's still Maashorst in establishment. So it's up to the new city council to decide. I think the signal from this Chamber is: think about it again. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u68	That signal could, of course, send out to the Chamber. Others have done the same. That is why it is a debate and it is on the agenda here. I can imagine that. I also think that signal is being heard correctly. I myself have also made a comment on the ability to respond to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u69	It's on the agenda and it hasn't been decided yet. I think it is good to note this, also because it is being listened to. The other point concerns the amendment tabled to add Schaijk to Oss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u70	Is that the amendment that has just been distributed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u71	Yes, the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Özütok, which had been announced earlier in their first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u72	The Minister has it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u73	The Minister says that this leaves an uneven merger. For Landerd it was just so important that it was an equivalent merger. If this amendment is adopted and this uneven merger remains, then what is the position of the Municipality of Landerd in that case and what will happen to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u74	This proposal had already been announced. It's the first time I've seen it in writing. Indeed, it is also in line with what was said in the first term. Landerd doesn't want this like this. So if the House were to adopt this amendment, I think I would consult with the municipalities. I cannot say in advance what their decision will be, but then I think they should consider again whether they would like to continue the reclassification. So that seems to me to be the consequence of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u75	Thank you. I thank the Minister. Let's move on to the second term of office. I'll look around first who needs a second term. Mrs. Özütok? Yeah? Good. Then I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering our questions. At one point, however, we still have differences of opinion. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in the case of various reclassifications, the situation arises that the local councils concerned agree to a proposal for (undivided) reclassification, but that specific cores lack the broad support for the proposed reclassification;]] [[Whereas the best possible weighting of the interests of all residents should be ensured by a reclassification decision;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how, in the municipal reclassification policy framework, more emphasis can be given to support in all relevant cores, and to inform the Court of Auditors of this for the budgetary treatment for the year 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35619-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u77	Sorry, Chairman. After Mr Bosma's and Mr Van Raak's fervent first-term pleas, I thought they would have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u78	Don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u79	So I'm sorry. I didn't know we were going so fast. I just wanted to come back to Grave. The minister says that she is in close contact with the province of North Brabant and that the municipality is under preventive financial supervision. However, I shall put forward a motion to call on her to look into what can be done in close cooperation with the provincial government, also to give her support in this respect. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the municipality of Grave has decided to stay outside the new municipality of Land van Cuijk, while the other municipalities concerned have always kept the door open, and that it is undesirable to delay this planned reclassification;]] [[Whereas Grave faces a number of financial and administrative challenges;]] [[Furthermore, considering that the largest possible minority of Grave City Council would prefer to join this new municipality and that, on its initiative on the independence of that municipality, a population consultation will be held on 17 March 2021;]] [[calls on the government, within its capacity and responsibilities, to promote, in close cooperation with the provincial administration, the administrative and financial preparation of the municipality of Grave for a reclassification, should the will prove so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller, Mr Snoeren and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35620-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u80	I will speak with my group about the amendment, but I feel that if we adopt it, the whole reclassification will be placed on uncertain grounds and we do not know whether it will continue. I think that is very important in my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u81	I would say do so before 7 p.m., because then we will vote on it. Then you know that, too. I now turn to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. There are several reclassifications for which the CDA will also have different support. In any case, I would like to use this second deadline to support the words used by Mr Sneller in tabling the motion on the municipality of Grave. I think it is good to stress that that motion also states that if it turns out that they want to reorganise, I think that reference is made to the poll that still has to be held, it will ensure that the period can be properly bridged. A municipality cannot be left to its own devices. With regard to the comments made by Mr Snoeren on the reclassification of Heerhugowaard, there is still the necessary care with regard to the CDA, which should also be applied after the reclassification when it comes to possible possibilities for border correction. I support further steps in this area by Mr Snoeren on behalf of the CDA Group. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u83	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Snoeren on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. With regard to the amendment that has just been tabled, as Mr Sneller pointed out, I am going to consider it. I'm really excited about what's gonna happen. If this amendment were to be adopted, what would be the situation there? I am therefore looking forward to a response from the Minister. As Mr Van der Molen has announced, I have a motion for a resolution on St Pancras and Koedijk. I'd like to recite it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft law merges the municipalities of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk into the new municipality of Dijk and Waard, the villages of Sint Pancras and Koedijk;]] [[noting that the villages of Sint Pancras and Koedijk are now situated in the commune of Langedijk;]] [[noting that in the merger of the municipalities of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk there is a discussion about the position of the villages of Sint Pancras and Koedijk;]] [[further noted that in a study carried out by the municipality of Langedijk on support for the Koedijk and Sint Pancras cores, the majority of respondents preferred to merge with Alkmaar;]] [[invites the government, after completion of the reclassification process, to explore the province of Noord-Holland with the new municipality of Dijk and Waard, the municipality of Alkmaar, as well as with the inhabitants of Sint Pancras and Koedijk, whether for the villages of Sint Pancras and/or Koedijk a border correction so that they can belong to the municipality of Alkmaar is a sustainable solution and whether this can count on support from the inhabitants of Sint Pancras and Koedijk, and to inform the Chamber about the progress within one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Snoeren, Mr Van der Molen and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35621-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u85	Thank you. I have two motions. I understand the Minister when she says: I leave it to the municipalities whether or not they want to organise a referendum or something else. But you can see that there has been a lot of unrest in municipalities where that has not happened. Hence, following what Mr Van Raak did earlier, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas reclassification municipalities are free in the way in which participation is regulated;]] [[Whereas participation is not always optimally organised and may be a cause for discontent among residents;]] [[calls on the government to bring forward a legislative amendment to establish that residents of reclassification municipalities are always consulted through a referendum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35619-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u86	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is serious reason to question the legislative process prior to the reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer;]] [[calls on the Government to organise an independent investigation into the process prior to the reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer, in particular with regard to the municipality of Haren, in the light of the rules of the game in force at that time, while also considering the role of senior officials and directors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35619-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u88	I'll take a look. Five minutes tops? That's good. Then I suspend... Oh, Mr. Bishop wanted to. How could I have forgotten you? Sorry, Mr. Bishop. Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u89	Thank you, Mr President. For a moment, the doubt struck. What is the President doing to silence the SGP? But I know that's not how you work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u90	Oh, thank God. Or are you making a video of me now? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u91	Mr. Chairman. Just to thank the Minister for answering the questions and the careful manner in which they were answered, even if we sometimes had some disagreements, you should take the floor. As far as colleagues have not spoken, I am very prepared to do so on their behalf. Mr. Chairman. I have three points. In the event of interruption, I have just discussed the administrative action of the province. In this case, I believe that this supports the Minister's point of departure. This is also laid down in the letter and in the outline of the reclassification guidelines. But in order to give that good content, you need objective indicators. I would like to challenge the Minister to make that battle in her absence and to take steps in it, so that there will be more objective clarity about the position of the provinces in the next cabinet period. A second point I would like to raise is the hamburger position of Diemen. I asked the Minister to do that. It is certainly their own choice; there is municipal autonomy. I agree. In the final analysis, we are dealing with the reclassification. But I did ask the Minister to reflect on the desirability of such a position. It is important to ask us more fundamentally to what extent such a situation is desirable. So you're actually looking at it from a helicopter. I would ask the Minister to give that reflection. Finally, the municipalities deal with the naming of their municipalities. That is a great good thing, and we must cherish it. When it is found that there is something strange going on there, I could at least imagine that the Minister would urge the municipalities concerned to consult explicitly the expert committee on geography names. They have some explaining to do if they don't. Mr. Chairman. I've slightly exceeded my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u92	I owe you one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u93	I owed you one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u95	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u96	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your patience. But we have to do the answers and the reactions to motions and the like carefully. May I briefly thank Mr Van Raak? He did not have a second term, so I cannot go into what he has asked or added, but he himself said that it is possible that it is not certain, but possibly his last debate. I enjoyed his contributions in all the debates. We often disagreed, but sometimes we were suddenly on the same side and we were literally sitting here together in Box K. I would like to thank him very much for his cooperation and, of course, I wish him all the best after this. I think Mr Bosma had his gunpowder shattered in the first term. It didn't add anything. The other speakers did, and I would like to comment on that. First of all, Mrs Özütok and her amendment. Again, I understand the concerns that have been expressed about Schaijk and I have heard them correctly. I also think they've been heard well elsewhere. But I have taken a very close look at the amendment. I have already made it clear in my first term that I believe that this amendment is detrimental to the reclassification. We will then get a less robust scale from the new municipality and a less balanced position in the region. But I also have a technical comment on the amendment, because the amendment does not make clear which part of Schaijk should pass. The amendment does not say whether it concerns only the core, i.e. only the built-up part, or also the outlying area. There should normally be a map for this type of proposal, so that it becomes clear. That's in Article 2 of the ARHI Act. That is a technical remark to the amendment, which I would advise against. Then I am in favour of Mrs Özütok's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u97	Very briefly, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u98	This amendment has been produced in a short time on the way to this debate. We have looked into whether the definition contained in the amendment would be appropriate. So it was appropriate. But to weigh up what the Minister says: is it still necessary to add a map to this? That's the question. Because if it is a necessity for care, we may have to take that step. I would like to ask the Minister for clarity and decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u99	The answer is yes. In fact, I think it's very important. Once again, I do not recommend the amendment, but if the House wishes to go through with it, I would suggest that it should at least be technically corrected and improved. Of course, technical assistance can be provided from my department, if that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u100	Then we'll have to weigh that up. Whatever the House decides on this amendment, it must be done carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u102	But we're going to vote tonight, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u103	It's not even 7:00. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 8 (35619) by Mrs Özütok. The motion follows on from what Mr Van der Molen asked during the debate. I'd like to be willing to do that, and I'll give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u104	Then the motion to part No. 7 (35620) by Mr Sneller and others
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u105	Mr Sneller's motion concerns the municipality of Grave. That motion calls for Grave to be supported in the event of a reclassification with the Land of Cuijk. I read the motion in such a way that, if there is support for it, it is the wish that support be provided from both the province and the Empire. The current policy frameworks should, of course, apply. But in the event that's meant to be, I could carry out the motion. That is why I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the House. Then I'm at...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u106	You're at the motion in part No. 7 (35621) by Mr Snoeren and others
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u107	I fully understand the intention of the motion and I am prepared to do so. The only thing I stumbled upon was that the motion asked to inform the Chamber about this within a year. That's pretty quick. I do not know whether the author of the motion might consider making it two years, for example, because I would really like to give the opinion to the Chamber on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u108	Mr. Snoeren, a short response or a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u109	Mr Van der Molen and Mr Bishop. It's okay. We'll make it two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u110	I appreciate that very much. Then I'll give you this motion in part no. 7 (35621) very much like judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u111	The motion-snores c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft law merges the municipalities of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk into the new municipality of Dijk and Waard, the villages of Sint Pancras and Koedijk;]] [[noting that the villages of Sint Pancras and Koedijk are now situated in the commune of Langedijk;]] [[noting that in the merger of the municipalities of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk there is a discussion about the position of the villages of Sint Pancras and Koedijk;]] [[also noted that a study carried out by the municipality of Langedijk on support for the Koedijk and Sint Pancras cores preferred the majority of respondents to merge with Alkmaar;]] [[calls on the government, after completion of the reclassification process, to ask the province of North Holland to evaluate with the new municipality of Dijk and Waard, the municipality of Alkmaar, as well as with the inhabitants of Sint Pancras and Koedijk and to explore whether a border correction with the municipality of Alkmaar is a lasting solution for the villages of Sint Pancras and/or Koedijk, and to inform the Chamber about the progress within two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. , was No. 7 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u112	Mr Krol's motion for a resolution 9 (35619) looks at the question of the referendum. I have argued before that I believe that the municipalities themselves should decide how they measure support. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then there is Mr Krol's second motion. 10 (35619). This is a subject on which Mr Krol has also put many written questions. I refer to my answer to those questions. I do not see enough ground for what the motion asks, so I advise against it. Finally, Mr Bishop had asked me a few more questions. Perhaps, for the sake of clarity, I could promise the Chamber to return to that in writing, because he is actually asking for a reflection. That would now take too much time; I must do so very precisely. I will inform the Chamber in writing. Then the hamburger called Diemen. If you look at the map, you can see that the addition of Weesp does not change much; it is mainly the position of Diemen between Amsterdam-Zuidoost and Amsterdam. But I do not think that was Mr Bishop's point. It was mainly about the question: should you include that geographical location? I can imagine that, just when you work from the bottom up on reclassifications, this will happen more often. So I understand his question. I will also reflect on and reflect on it, but I do not know whether it should be a decisive argument. The same applies to the issue of naming. Although I do sympathise with Mr Bishop and others in the Chamber, I have seen in this case that perhaps, if more attention had been paid to it early, it would not have had to come to such a discussion. There is indeed such a committee for it. It can be consulted on a voluntary basis. I could promise the Chamber that we will actively promote that consultation, if that is the case. Mr President, that brings me to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u113	Then I would like to thank the Minister and, of course, the spokesmen. This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-17.u114	One amendment and a few motions will be put to the vote before 7 p.m. this evening. I can see everyone looking surprised, but we're going to vote later.
