ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 35445, adoption of the Cooperation Agreement on Partnership and Development between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, established in Munich on 18 February 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u2	We now need the Minister's answer in the first term. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms Karimi and Mr Beuker both logically addressed the long Dutch commitment in Afghanistan as part of a broader international commitment. Mr Beuker was quite right to address those Dutch who paid the highest price, on our behalf, because we asked them to contribute to peace and stability in Afghanistan, knowing, even then, how difficult that task is. I share the analysis that, in order to be able to work on important goals such as the rule of law, the position of women and the position of minorities, it always starts with the question of whether basic security is in order. Unfortunately, this means that you will never be happy to do so, because the Dutch commitment in recent years and still has an important military component, but is always embedded in the broader commitment to economic development, the development of the rule of law, education and great attention to the position of women and girls. It goes without saying that this is an incredibly complicated task in a country with the history and composition of Afghanistan. The balance between the Netherlands and many other countries has always been that the alternative of "don't interfere" is always a worse choice than trying to improve under very difficult circumstances. Because with "don't get involved" Afghanistan doesn't disappear and the problems don't disappear there. We are dealing in this world with the threat of terrorism. The Western intervention in Afghanistan finally started because the attacks on the Twin Towers were directed from Afghanistan. The world is also interwoven through migration flows, for example. There are also potential new threats. So it is an illusion that you can completely isolate yourself from developments in a country like Afghanistan. Hence the continued commitment of the Netherlands, generally together with the EU and NATO, to try to achieve the improvement everyone wants. In this context, the agreement we are discussing today is a building block. I understood that, as far as Mrs Karimi is concerned, the question of whether we should agree to this EU agreement is not a matter for the Commission. By the way, Mrs. Karimi, I like being in the First Chamber, but you decide how often I come here. You can always invite me. I shall first answer the questions relating to the peace process, then the questions concerning the Dutch OS deployment, then the questions about the precise content of the outcome, and finally I shall deal with the motion that has been tabled. First of all, I will deal with the progress of the peace process and the role of the Netherlands and the European Union in it. Mrs Karimi asked very explicitly what this role is and whether the Netherlands and the European Union are sufficiently on the table there. The history of the negotiations is that the Taliban have always indicated that they want to talk to the US. The negotiations in Qatar started as negotiations between the Taliban and the US. Of course, the Netherlands and the EU are in contact with the US, but it was originally a negotiation between these two parties, with a result that a follow-up path should involve the democratically elected Afghan government. In the meantime, the new US government has indicated its desire for greater involvement in the peace process. Meetings are under preparation both in Moscow and in Turkey, involving a larger number of countries. In itself, that is wise. It is not surprising that the EU, or the Netherlands in particular, is not involved. EU involvement is, also in the document now before us, not primarily military, but supporting the rule of law, economic development and the strengthening of the position of women and girls. This EU commitment and framework conditions were very clearly formulated at the donor conference in Geneva. Mrs Karimi asked: can we actually make agreements with the Taliban? The reality is, of course, that you will have to talk to the Taliban if you want to reach a peace agreement. A purely military solution is not in the pipeline. But that doesn't mean you can settle for anything. At the Geneva donor conference, the EU and international partners set out key principles, which are also leading in the Netherlands. This is indeed about human rights and good governance as conditions for a future development relationship. In that respect, no carte blanche. The contacts with the current US government are excellent. Of course, she has also publicly stated that she would like to hang out with EU countries or even NATO countries. So without us sitting there directly at the table, our voice will be heard. Then Mr Beuker asks how I look at the results of the OS efforts of recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u4	I understand that the Minister has closed the block and wants to move on to another theme. I'd like to ask a few follow-up questions, if you'll allow me. My main question is: what is the material significance of such a cooperation agreement when agreements are reached at military and political level that the EU Member States are not part of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u5	The agreement now before us is an agreement between the Afghan Government and the EU which includes mutual commitment in the areas covered by that agreement. That's a very wide area. This does not, of course, contradict the possibility that the Afghan Government is also involved in a peace agreement with the Taliban, just as it does not prevent the EU from concluding other agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u6	Does the Minister agree with me that when such an agreement is reached, for example, according to the plans put forward by the US, the character, face and system in Afghanistan are going to change considerably? Then it'll really be a different country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u7	The wording 'another country' is, of course, very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u8	Another system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u9	We hope otherwise, of course, in the sense that violence is very low or disappearing, but Mrs Karimi's concern is going to go, so I understood her contribution on what the precise role of the Taliban will be. I can't quite predict that. I am quite sure that there is no alternative to sitting around the table with the Taliban. There is now twenty years of Western military presence, combined with other efforts, but this has not led to an end to violence. So I think the reality is that the agreement will not lead to a country being modelled exactly according to what we are used to in the Netherlands and Western Europe. I know, however, that the agreements made in Geneva, which I have just referred to, had influence, through the conditions that we can impose on aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u10	I am really trying to get a very concrete picture of how the Dutch Government, this minister, the plans now under way by the United States of America, is going to assess its rather elaborate ideas if it ignores the Geneva criteria. In my view, the Geneva criteria to which the Minister refers are not met.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u11	It's really too early for that. We're at the beginning of two rounds of conversation. I assume that Mrs Karimi also agrees with me that it is a good thing that these talks are taking place and that there is no alternative to being around the table. I can't exactly predict what's coming out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u12	Mrs. Karimi, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u13	Yes, Chairman, finally. I'm sure I'm in favour of these conversations taking place. The question is only under what conditions these conversations take place and who is sitting around the table. You said in your answer to my questions: it is an Afghan matter, so Afghans sit and talk internally. Now we see that it's just widened, so there are four more parties around the table. But, for example, the EU is not on the table, while I expect the EU to advocate human rights, international law and democratic principles. So I'm gonna miss out on that stakeholder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u14	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u15	That is a statement which may lead to the conclusion that this may be a pity, but that does not change reality. I have already indicated that negotiations have begun much more narrowly, with Taliban and US. Compared to that, it is profit, because it is of great importance, you want to achieve lasting peace in Afghanistan, that you also have a number of neighbouring countries that have a finger in their mouths there. I also indicated to you that the current US government is very much inclined to consult with EU and NATO partners. But indeed, the EU is not at that table. The EU influence runs along the conditions that we can impose on the provision of aid. Then I come to the part: what has the Dutch commitment, by the way, always been embedded in an international context? However difficult the situation in Afghanistan may be, it is fortunate to note that real progress has been made in recent years, for example in the area of education for girls, which was unthinkable under the Taliban in the field of health care, very measurable, for example in the area of child mortality and the survival of women in childbirth. Life expectancy has also increased. Luckily there is progress to be seen, but it is fragile. The future of this depends very much on those peace talks and the space that exists to continue supporting Afghanistan. But fortunately, you can't say that the stakes and the sacrifices that have been made are for nothing. Logically, Mr Beuker refers to the very persistent corruption in Afghanistan. I'm afraid we can't say we wiped it out. However, the Netherlands is a very critical donor. In the case of new projects, too, we are always putting the control of expenditure and the fight against corruption at the top of the agenda, together with others. Payments have also been stopped because there has been persistent corruption. Then there is no blind payment. But it remains a major task, even for future projects. Mr Beuker also asked why this agreement is being concluded; it is rather wide-ranging. Nevertheless, I believe that it has real added value for two reasons. The first is that the European Union itself is an important donor in the field of development cooperation. It is therefore logical that we have an EU-wide agreement on the use of these resources in an important country such as Afghanistan. The second is that the alternative that 27 European countries plus countries outside Europe operating there, all of which would organise extremely different extremes, on their own initiative, would be far less effective than if, at least at EU level, you coordinate that. This EU cooperation is complicated. Mr Beuker was right to point that out. But that's still much better than not aligning it to the best of our ability. The agreement is also binding on a new government. Treaties do not disappear after elections. That applies to the Netherlands, and that applies to Afghanistan. Treaties may at most be denounced by the parties, but there is no indication that this would be the case. Finally, Mr Beukering has tabled a motion, the motion under letter D, which the government, if it participates or contributes to this cooperation agreement, seeks to concentrate Dutch resources on the fight against corruption, education and women's rights, particularly in the province of Uruzgan and around the areas where Dutch soldiers are or are deployed. Actually, two things are mixed up in the operative part. The Netherlands has its own development commitment, which does not run through this agreement. He is aware of the priorities mentioned by Mr Beuker. But Mr Beuker's motion calls for direction to be given to the Dutch contribution to this agreement, both in terms of its content and in terms of its areas, while there is no specific Dutch commitment to this agreement. We only have our own direct development commitment. Nor can we specifically focus this agreement on areas where the Netherlands is or has been a military activity. That is why I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u16	I would like to thank the Minister for the answers, but I would like to mention two more issues. I understand that the motion is dissuaded because the operative part would have two tracks. I would like to get some explanation from the Minister as to why that would be contrary. You have, on the one hand, the national commitment to OS in Afghanistan. And you have a commitment in the context of European cooperation. Well, you can put that focus into it by jointly identifying the same goal. Why couldn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u17	But in the event of a motion, I have to do it with the operative part that gives the motion. The operative part shall be: "if it participates and/or contributes to this cooperation agreement'. I have already indicated that there is no Dutch contribution to this cooperation agreement. The second operative part then calls for the Dutch resources, which are therefore not available in this agreement, to be concentrated on a number of subjects. I support these issues on my own, but I cannot accommodate them in this. The motion then asks for this to be done in certain areas. But that does not make sense in this agreement, because it is an EU agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u18	So I'm surprised we're not doing anything about this cooperation agreement. That's what I hear the Minister say. We're not bringing in any resources. We're not doing anything with it. Then I don't know why we're standing here. I would like to have a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u19	The EU is bringing in resources. The EU is, I think, even the largest OS donor in the world. It is very sensible that the EU should do so on the basis of agreements with the recipient countries. One of them is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u20	The Netherlands does contribute to this, particularly through means under the European Agreement. That's why we're talking about it here. If we did not participate in this and did not bring in anything, we would not even have to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u21	The operative part of the motion says: "If she participates and/or contributes to this cooperation, concentrate the Dutch resources." The financing of these development funds comes from the "grandfather' as it is so beautifully called "Multiennial Financial Framework', which I have discussed with you before. They're not Dutch resources anymore. Once again, I have to deal with the text of the motion as you put it to me. Let me not say that there is a huge difference of opinion between you and I, because the priorities you mention are also Dutch priorities. But the precise wording chosen in the motion cannot be implemented in this way. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u22	You don't think she's possible. Mr. Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u23	I have a second point, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u24	Mr. Beefinger, wouldn't you put the forefoot on the blue landing sign that's called "for nothing"? Otherwise, it's gonna break. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u25	I think it's that good. The second point I have not yet heard from the Minister is in particular the comprehensive evaluation of the 3D concept. It still hasn't happened. We're critical of others, though. We know things didn't go well. Why are we not going to have a plenary evaluation of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u26	From the various missions, the Chamber has had evaluations. I mention Uruzgan's evaluation and Kunduz's evaluation. They contain the whole palette, so I do not agree with Mr Beucker that this evaluation did not take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u27	I think there is a difference of opinion, because there has never been an overall evaluation. I agree with the Minister that there have been partial evaluations, but there has still not been a final evaluation of the famous 3D concept, as I have also mentioned in my contribution, and of the whole situation in Afghanistan. I would therefore like a little more clarification from the Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u28	I'll give you a second term, too, Mr. Beefinger. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u29	I'm trying to figure out what an appropriate answer would be. The 3D approach is not specific to Afghanistan. It is also used in Mali and Iraq. It is actually applied where the Netherlands is military, because we do believe, fortunately, others with us, that a military approach can only be effective if it is combined with development. So if you would like to approach the whole 3D approach, I think you should do so about several countries, unless I do not understand Mr Beuker correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u30	"Want to evaluate," you mean. Mr. Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u31	I think it would be a good thing if we dare to look at ourselves and how that happened in Afghanistan. I have also said it in my contribution: we are doing justice to the victims we have had and the sacrifices we have made. We need to be critical of that. Not only critical of others, but also of ourselves. Everyone says we've had partial evaluations. I hear the Minister now saying that 3D is in other countries. In Afghanistan special things have happened, such as departure, against all agreements, to internal domestic problems. That screams for an overall evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u32	Finally, the Minister, and I'd like to refer you to your second term, Mr. Beefing, if you don't mind. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u33	I understand that Mr Beuker specifically refers to 3D in Afghanistan and even more specifically in Uruzgan. I do not think there are any gaps in the evaluations that have been sent, because a specific evaluation on Uruzgan has indeed been sent, which could be answered with a new evaluation. It's not like I'm not willing to be critical. These evaluations all contain critical comments. But I can't see the gaps right away. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u34	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u35	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I must say that I did not think that the Minister really went into detail about what at least my group was trying to raise, namely that the situation is now significantly and definitively different from, for example, in 2017, when this agreement was under way. This agreement has been concluded with other expectations. The current expectations are really very worrying. I didn't get an answer to that. At least the Minister remains very superficial in the answers. If the Minister says that progress has been made, I agree with him that there were areas where progress had been made, in relation to the period in which Afghanistan was among the Taliban. But large parts of Afghanistan are now also controlled by the Taliban. As the Minister is sure, they have gained quite a lot of military ground. In those provinces where the Taliban are now waving the scepter, the girls' schools are closed. All the progress that has been made has been reversed. That is at the heart of our concern. The situation on the ground and the situation following the discussions, the negotiations, can ensure that after twenty years of efforts, twenty years of life of initially Afghan citizens, but also (Dutch) soldiers, we will have a considerable fallback in Afghanistan. There is a geopolitical game going on, while the EU is not sitting there. That's worrying. It is very important to pay attention to this. The Minister says that contacts with the United States are excellent. Was the Minister, was the European Union, other Member States involved in the development of the peace agreement that is now being presented? Has there been a consultation? What was the contribution of the Dutch government to this? The Minister can say that a military solution is not possible. I agree wholeheartedly with him on this, but the problem is that the Taliban have become a hundred times stronger than they had 20 years ago. I would really like to hear a reflection on that. The Minister has not responded to the increased violence. What will happen now within the six weeks remaining until 1 May for the withdrawal of the troops, which has been agreed with the Taliban? What's the expectation? What's gonna happen there? In what way does the Netherlands participate in this decision-making process? Finally, I asked the Minister to give a commitment that this minister, that the European Union will make an enormous effort to preserve the rule of law, democratic principles, human rights in the peace talks. Can the Minister promise me that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u36	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Beuker on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to use my second term for two elements. Firstly, the evaluation, which I have already asked the Minister about. It is the evaluation of a very important mission, on which we have spent hundreds of millions and which has cost lives. That screams for an overall evaluation. We can go around it, but things just went wrong. We misdirected things. We were going to talk about a reconstruction mission, but it had nothing to do with reconstruction. It was a full-scale war. That's what we were in at the time. Unfortunately, as Mrs Karimi said, the results have evaporated. The schools we made for the girls initially achieved very nice results, but nowadays the girls are no longer allowed to sing. And there's no more dancing in Afghanistan either. It's only going to get worse, and just then you have to have the courage to look at what we've done, how much it's cost us and what it's gotten us. Let's all learn from that, please. That is our duty to our successors and to the people we have lost there and the sacrifices that have been made. Mr. Chairman. The second point concerns the motion. I understand very well that when the Netherlands makes funds available to the European Union to revive development projects, it is not, in principle, said: there are conditions. However, I would like to hear from the Minister why we should not do so in this case. We could simply say to Brussels: we would like to participate in this treaty and in the implementation of this agreement, but we would be very pleased if the money we are going to spend in a European Union fund would be allocated to the areas for which we, as the Netherlands, have done a great deal. I can keep an even longer story about it, but I think this is obvious. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u38	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to questions from the Chamber? That seems to be the case. I shall then give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms Karimi stressed once again that the situation was different from when the agreement was drawn up in 2017. I fully agree with that. The complex thing is, of course, that we are now at a stage where negotiations are taking place. I will answer the other questions in a moment. But we do not know the outcome. In any case, I do not think it would be wise, pending these negotiations, to wait for this treaty, which is wise in any case in view of the European and Dutch commitment, because we are in an uncertain situation. I do not see any advantages for the relationship with Afghanistan. I certainly do not see any benefits for our relations within the European Union, of which a very large number of countries have just ratified it. However, I have concerns with Mrs Karimi about whether developments are going in the right direction. I indicated: I cannot change that the European Union is not at the table in the peace negotiations, but fortunately there are more parties at the table than at the initial set-up. Mrs Karimi even suggested a little bit that I had not answered her questions about the EU's commitment. I said very explicitly: conditions apply to the EU and the Netherlands at the donor conference in Geneva. That is my answer to that question. Because we are such an important donor, we have influence there. Then you asked: what happens until May 1st? That is indeed a pressing question. As a cabinet, we also informed the Chamber that we cannot rule out an increase in the level of threat. If so, we may even have to send extra troops to protect our people. So that is an uncertain situation. Of course, my hope, and the hope of many, is that, by restarting the negotiations which the US has now initiated, we will not enter into a worst-case scenario of escalation of violence in Moscow and Turkey, but that we will be in a scenario of continuing peace negotiations leading to progress rather than decline. But right now, that's a wish. This is our commitment through our influence on the United States, but I cannot deny that we have an uncertain future ahead of us. In reply to Mr Beuker, I am a strong supporter of evaluations. I fully agree with him that things have also gone wrong in Afghanistan. Progress has been made. Things have gone wrong, too. But I just don't see what we can add on top of Uruzgan's evaluation, which he specifically asked for, but also from Kunduz. Anyone can draw their conclusions. They were also discussed with your room. So my question is: what else is there to evaluate? It is not that I would disagree with the importance of evaluations. Finally, Mr Beuker asked why we did not impose additional conditions on this agreement. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat heeft ook te maken met een betrouwbaar partner zijn.]] This agreement was negotiated and drawn up a long time ago. If the Netherlands would now like to impose additional conditions on this agreement, then you must open the whole negotiations. If the Netherlands were to claim that right, 26 other European countries and Afghanistan could also claim that right. I don't think that's fair. I believe that this agreement as it stands is sufficient. I also think that the specific direction of the use of Dutch funds on the subjects mentioned by Mr Beuker should be taken in the way that Mr Beuker and I consider important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u40	I would particularly like to comment on the evaluation; that is the point. I think one major aspect has not been mentioned. That is the role of politics and decision-making in particular. The evaluation of this, in whatever form, has not been sufficiently detailed. Does the Minister agree with me that there may be a gap there? Could he promise that there will be an evaluation of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u41	The Chamber has had that evaluation. Both rooms have had them. At that time, of course, it is up to the Chamber to decide which subjects it wishes to add, including, for example, its own decision-making. I think that is a fair point. But that opportunity didn't stop anyone. The evaluation was here. Anyone could then provide the input they wanted to provide. I can't change the insertions that were or weren't delivered at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u42	It would be nice if we had a document in which that evaluation would be sent to us again. This has never happened in my knowledge; there have been only partial evaluations. So if the Minister could promise that we'll get that, I can live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u43	I have no evaluation other than the very comprehensive evaluation you have received.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u44	So it's already received the Chamber? That's what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u45	It's got the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u46	We'll have the Registry check that out, Mr. Beefinger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u47	I asked the specific question whether the EU, or the Dutch Government, had been informed in advance of the US peace plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u48	Not in advance, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u49	So that's really just the US initiative, worked out with all the details, and there hasn't been any prior consultation with allies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u50	I've outlined how it went. The Taliban...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u51	No, no, no, I'm just talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u52	Mrs Karimi, the Minister has the floor. Then you will have the floor again. One by one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u53	No, there hasn't been any prior consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u54	What is the Minister's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u55	It doesn't add much to making all kinds of judgments about it, because history is so important. Taliban did not ask: can we please negotiate with the European Union? They also did not ask: can we please negotiate with the Netherlands? Taliban only wanted to negotiate with the US. From that history, I indicated to you, I find the profit that the US has now chosen for that broadening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u56	Mrs Karimi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u57	Thank you. Can the Minister then imagine how it feels, at least for me personally, but also for my group, if you have to say yes to the results of that process with closed eyes, without knowing and without having any influence on a process? That is very unsatisfactory. It is also unsatisfactory that the Minister is not here to express the view that the US should have done so and that he is not saying that he is now committed to ensuring that the US does involve these allies better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u58	The Dutch Government or the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is not asked to agree to the outcome of the peace process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u59	This morning, Mr Stoltenberg, the Secretary-General of NATO, made it clear in a press conference that there are currently more non-US troops in Afghanistan than US troops. So it is actually a very reasonable request that, when the US takes an initiative, they involve the allies. The Netherlands, as one of the allies that has made a huge effort in Afghanistan over the last 20 years, must also hammer it out and take initiatives to that end. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u60	I have indicated that I am pleased that the current US government is also seeking this contact with the Netherlands and other EU countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u61	"Looking for contact" is something other than that you expect to be much more involved in initiatives being taken. All the allies who have worked so hard in Afghanistan over the past 20 years are confronted with fulfilled facts each time. The fact that you take that so laconically, I must say, I am very sorry to take it, is disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u62	That is why it is important for Mrs Karimi to go back to how this was created. The Taliban, whether we like it or not, did not ask whether the Netherlands or the European Union came to the negotiating table. They asked if the United States would come to the negotiating table. That was indeed a conversation between two parties. In relation to that situation, I count my blessings. Mrs Karimi could say that it would be even better if there were wider consultations. I can follow her very closely, but you will have to think again about what that would do for such a peace process. There are lots of parties at the table. It's so complicated. So you have the real question of whether such a peace process is smoother than it is now. But again, we now have good and open contact with the United States without us sitting there at the table. With this, I hope to have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u63	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-14.u64	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
