ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would ask Members to take their place again. The next item is the first term of office in the debate on the development of the coronavirus. I have agreed with Members that they can ask six questions or make comments. I'd like to be brief. I hope the Prime Minister can tell us which blocks are there. Then we can have a very structured debate. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr President, I only have one block, namely questions. The questions are difficult to describe, because there are actually not that many asked at all, and certainly not me. I am going to say a few things about the vulnerable in society, about health inequalities, about youth care and about the package of measures. Then the Minister of VWS will address all questions in his area, especially about vaccinations, but also about the longer-term plan towards 1 September and beyond. The Minister for Medical Care deals with the conditions of employment, the purchase of protective equipment and the catching-up care. That's kind of the big stuff. Mr. Chairman. I would like to refrain from introductory remarks. I agree with everyone who says: pf, how nice that we are in a better position. Then I'll go straight to the questions. One question was asked about how much money has to go to tackle inequality, just to sum it up. We have already discussed this in the debate on 24 March. The Labour Party then asked what the government would do about inequality and whether there would be a social recovery plan. I also said at the time that we agreed that there should be broad work to promote equality of opportunity, especially post-corona. We do that on different tracks. A lot of money has been made available to combat educational disadvantages. Work will also continue on addressing debt and division in the labour market. If you then look at who is being hit extra hard in this crisis, then it is absolutely a fact that people with a lower socio-economic position are being hit more heavily by the pandemic. Unfortunately, that is also almost predictable. So it is happening, to our regret. This is confirmed by 15 mayors with an urban renewal area. They have the call "Close the gap!" Done. It was offered to the Chamber on 26 May. In a fair chance of a healthy life, the Health and Society Council has also drawn attention to this issue and issued opinions on it. Parliamentary questions have also been asked on this point, which will be answered one of these days. At least they came from the SP's corner and perhaps they were also made on behalf of others. In the coming months, we will need to further assess the impact of the pandemic on socio-economic health inequalities. RIVM also conducts specific research on socio-economic health differences in relation to this pandemic on behalf of VWS. That is what we expect to have completed this year. So I think we'll come back to that at different times. The recovery package, which was also discussed here yesterday with the troika, is intended to work specifically in this direction, especially with regard to education. Against this background, it might be good to deal with Mrs Westerveld's question on youth care; I need to look at where I have it. She asked whether this is a cabinet priority and what is going to happen in the near future to help these children. We come up with a separate letter of inquiry on how to implement Mrs Ploumen's motion for a resolution on the recovery and prospects of young people in the medium term. Work is now under way on the problems of youth care, so as to be able to deal with the issues of domestic violence. The approach to child abuse is one of the priorities, as well as the focus on the psychological well-being of young people. In this sense, we very much share the concerns about the impact of the corona measures. Here we absolutely need extra alertness. We'll do a few things. We want to raise awareness among potential victims, professionals and bystanders. We also provide additional opportunities to report easily, to ask for advice and to seek help, by extending for example the various functions at Safe Home. We need to give young people, we think, perspective as soon as possible and otherwise limit mental damage as much as possible. We are also aware of the problems in youth care. This has also been reason to involve experts from the youth field, municipalities and young people themselves, as well as all kinds of organisations, both in the Welfare Youth Support Package and in this week's Letter of Parliament. In that youth plan, too, there is a very specific focus on the unsafe situation in families. Mrs Van Ark will be talking about catching up, but we know that we will still have a great deal of social impact on this issue. In that sense, I very much recognise the urgency on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures. Among other things, a question was asked about the fairgrounds: can they open earlier? The situation is that events without a fixed location, i.e. the so-called flow-through and/or unplaced events, cannot be done in step 3. This also has to do with the logical construction of step 3. Otherwise, it would be too big. This is covered by events in step 4, and we have now arranged for them to apply for that permit in coordination with the competent local authority, so that they are fully ready as step 4 enters into force. In order to ensure that this is the case, the Minister for Justice and Security discussed this with the Security Council this week, and the municipalities are really in the starting point to issue these permits as soon as possible. In fact, it runs parallel. Mr President, I will finish the questions, then I will have had them all. We can talk about the video screens long and wide. We will look again at what might be possible in mid-June, but we are very concerned about those screens. It puts pressure on compliance with the measures and will undoubtedly lead to a further influx into the surroundings of the terraces. All kinds of enforcement issues arise because the closing time of the hospitality and the ban on alcohol will fall in the middle of most of the competitions. I can tell Mrs Bikker that tomorrow afternoon I will talk to the regions and the mayors with a broad delegation of the cabinet. In doing so, we will discuss all kinds of aspects and keep my commitment to Pieter Heerma in an earlier debate. Two final questions, Mr President. One question concerns the rules on marriages. There is an extension from 30 to 50 at the wedding, as you know, but parties are unfortunately not possible at the moment; a dinner only in small circles in accordance with the general rules in the catering industry. Finally, the final question to me by Mrs Pouw-Verweij about the funds for educational deficits. Schools are currently trying to visualize the backlogs. That's more than just language and math. They also formulate what needs to be done on the basis of all the interventions. Good monitoring is extremely important, and on 21 May last the Chamber was informed about the state of play by Arie Slob, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media Policy. There will be a separate debate with the Chamber on the whole national programme next Monday. Mr President, that is in response to the questions that were put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you. There are a number of questions. First of all, Mr Wilders of the PVV, then Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks, then Mrs Van der Plas of BBB, then Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA, then Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA and then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. First of all, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I regret that the Prime Minister is not addressing my main input, which is why not freedom right now? I think the Prime Minister is about the measures. It would have decorated him if he'd gone into that. Now that he hasn't, I'm gonna ask him the question again. The Minister for Health has said that he expects all measures to be lifted from 1 September. My input was: why not now? When it comes to restrictions on freedom, as a government, you must come from a very good house to limit them. We saw that at curfew and now again. I said this by interrupting my colleague in the VVD group: we did not agree with everything, but we have been constructive in terms of the corona debate and certainly in terms of reducing the danger of code black. Now that danger has passed, there will be no code black. If you look at the figures from the Ministry itself about the vaccination rate of elderly and vulnerable people, you will see how much bluer the Netherlands becomes. Those elderly and vulnerable have often been vaccinated twice, so the ic's will continue to drain due to the weather, but certainly also due to vaccinations. That was the reason, Mr Prime Minister, that you told the Netherlands that we are going to take measures to ensure that it does not get out of hand. We have not all supported these measures, but we have supported some of them. But now that that is no longer playing and the ic's are draining and the pressure on care when it comes to corona patients is getting less, you must also draw the consequence and reduce the measure not by 1 September, but from now on. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u5	For starters, of course, we would all like that. That's not what the discussion is about. You'd love to relax. What we are doing in the Netherlands is really getting ahead of a lot of other European countries, while we have a lot more infectious people in the Netherlands. We are much worse off than other countries and we are doing a lot in the enlargements. We think it's a responsible risk we're taking. I'm behind that. But it is also important, for example, to be able to look at what the relaxations we are now implementing are doing in the epidemiological picture. Why is that important? Because we also need to see what other variants might do. We're dealing with a massive wave of delayed operations. You can't have it falling too slowly in intensive care. That has to continue to fall quickly, because you need that capacity to make catching-up care possible. We don't know enough about long covid yet. It is not just the question of whether you are going into intensive care, but also what the other health implications are. We are also really watching a little bit of what the rest of Europe is doing. We're really way ahead of ourselves. The step we're taking on Saturday is actually the end of the lockdown. From "no, unless..." we go to "yes, if..." Then we want to merge steps 4 and 5. We're already hoping for June 30th. Steps 4 and 5 will again be very ambitious steps. That's our goal. You'll go in a few steps to letting go of maybe all the measures, if it's all possible. I think Wilders and I are in agreement on direction, but you really need to keep looking at the effects. At the moment there are just under 400 people with only corona on the ic. So that number is falling and I am not afraid of code black at the moment, but we are not just looking at hospital capacity. Of course, we are also looking at the general health situation and the protection of people with vulnerable health. There we are really still facing issues that need to be addressed. Plus the catch-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u6	But that's changing the rules of the game. You told the Netherlands that because of the pressure on the care you were talking about the corona care, the fear of not being able to handle it and code black.......................................................................................................................................................................................... That's how you motivated them. That's not gonna happen again. Yesterday we saw the RIVM presentation. We have seen that in July only 125 corona patients are still on the ic, which of course is still 125 too many, and in August 0. Those are the numbers. So it's going very fast. We see that the number of infectious people has fallen by 35% in a week. We see that the number of new recordings has fallen by almost 50%. I have just mentioned the figures of the number of people who have been voluntarily pricked twice or once. Those numbers are huge, and according to all the tests, those people don't end up in the hospital anymore. I understand your concern, but you should keep your end of the bargain. The Netherlands was going to limit because people were afraid of the pressure on care and code black, but now all the figures are really green. Again, I'm not suggesting that corona is over, if only, but the corona crisis is over. Isn't that part of relaxing? I am so afraid that the Prime Minister, like the curfew, says that he can and that he will only do it if necessary, but then for weeks that restriction of freedom lasts longer than necessary. That is a friend and an enemy, the Prime Minister himself admitted at the end. I'm afraid that's what we're doing now, when the principle is: you only take away people and businesses' freedom if you have to and for the reason you've given before. That reason you've given before no longer applies. I understood that there was also a discussion within the cabinet about whether the measures could not be abolished sooner, if I could believe the newspapers. Let me add something to that: can't it be even sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u7	That discussion is always there. Those messages are on their own. Discussion is always there, because if we always agreed, we wouldn't need any more meetings. We're meeting to agree. Of course, everyone wants it as soon as possible. At the moment that is foreseen on 30 June. We are thinking of a very ambitious step on 30 June, where we are already taking the step of "no, unless..." to "yes, if..." and we will be off the real lockdown from next Saturday. So the day after tomorrow. Then you want to be able to release as many measures as possible, except for a number of general advice and measures in the area of mouth caps and 1.5 meters. You also want to get rid of it as soon as possible. We agree on that. Wilders asks: can it be sooner? If we can, we will, but we really need to see what this step is doing. At the moment there are almost 400 people left in intensive care. Indeed, that number is falling, but the amount of people in intensive care is still double the target you need of 200 to get back to normal care. In that sense, the pressure is still enormous. There, too, the experienced workload is of course still enormous. I do not agree with one point. It is not that we take all these measures only because of a threatening code black, although that is of course the spirit that we all had. We are also taking these measures precisely because we always steer those two things. The question of what corona does to our public health. This certainly applies to people who are vulnerable to it, but also in a general sense. That is why I am calling for attention to be paid to aspects such as long covid, but also to the indirect consequences of corona, namely late care. In addition, of course, it is also about the pressure on the care itself. So it's still substantial. I think we agree on the direction, only Wilders says, extremely put: let go now. I'd say that's unwise. We really need to take a good look at what Saturday's step is doing. If we can do it quickly, we'll do it quickly. If we can do it faster, we can do it faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u8	I was going to say the Prime Minister, but I meant Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u9	You're not that far off. No, Mrs Ploumen, it doesn't happen that fast. You'll know that, too. This is my third interruption, Mr. Chairman. Then I have to stop, unfortunately, because otherwise the two esteemed colleagues of the Prime Minister... Maybe they should start sometime, Mr President. Now the interruptions are always over when we come to the other two ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u10	That's true, yes. That's a bit of our approach, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u11	This is my third interruption. I'll have three more. Unfortunately, this is my last to the Prime Minister. It's about the soccer screens. I made this an important point. People really don't get it. To begin with, it is very silly that the terraces have to be closed at 10 p.m. You know that a game that starts at 9:00 p.m. lasts until 10:45 p.m. I don't need it at all, as you know, but my first proposal would be to set the closing time at least at 11 p.m. and not at 10 p.m. During the E.K., that's just lame. The second question is: make sure people can just enjoy themselves with those screens. Mr. Prime Minister, people have had such a hard time over the past year. They have such a need to do something fun with each other, to watch the Dutch Team with each other, also in the poule competitions, on a terrace instead of all at home or with a woman who often knows a lot about football. Except for mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u12	Don't go there!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u13	I think I just saved it. Let people do that. Allow the screens, let it happen until 11:00 p.m. and give it to people. The chances of people getting infected in the outdoors are very small. You know that. How many times have we talked about that? You would do people so much fun with this; not only the entrepreneurs in the catering industry, but also the people who want to watch a screen with each other on a terrace, until 10.45 pm. At 11:00 p.m., the terrace closes. Give them that! This does not lead to a huge increase in contamination. I promise you, because this is outside. You would do a lot of people in the Netherlands a favor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u14	Listen. Of course I'd love to. It's not like I'm standing here like some kind of strict family man, saying, "I can't do that." But here again we really have to pay attention to what we are doing in the sum. It was agreed with the Security Council that we should look again for the second half of June. By the way, the game starts on 21 June at 18.00 hours. The other two games indeed start at 8.30 p.m. or 8.15 p.m. On June 21st against North Macedonia starts at 6 p.m. This really involves the sucking effect. You don't just get a screen on a terrace, with hopefully 50 people at a distance. When I look at soccer, I may also drink a small drink with it. People will of course stand at a distance and watch what happens there: oh, the game! Of course, you're getting a lot more busy. That's inevitable, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u15	This is a lot of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u16	Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u17	You also want to keep people from sitting at home. In that sense, I understand the question very well. My question is about something completely different. We hop back and forth between very different subjects. I have asked some rather specific questions about the most vulnerable in our society, including vulnerable children. That was partly due to KidsRights' report. I know what measures are being taken in education. We will have another debate next Monday with Education Minister Slob. I know what happens in social services. My question to the outgoing Prime Minister was: to what extent does the issue of young people and vulnerable children really have priority in this cabinet? I do not ask that for nothing, because we have constantly said with a very large part of this Chamber over the last few years that youth care was not doing well. We have constantly said that it was not good in education and that the most vulnerable children have always been the victims of this. The same thing we saw in the corona crisis during the first lockdown. We received alarming reports from KidsRights, from Defence for Children, from various other children's rights organizations. That is why my question is not what we spend money on. My question to the outgoing Prime Minister is how much priority this has. What is going to happen in concrete terms in the near future to ensure that this inequality does not increase, that these children can participate again and that there really is a future for them again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u18	I just gave the answer to that second one. I also outlined that that youth plan will be coming to the Chamber shortly. With regard to the first: there is no doubt about that. In March of last year, when we thought that schools could remain open safely, thinking about this has changed, but at that time the picture was still that schools could remain open safely. But in the end, teachers and parents voted their asses off. That's allowed in a crisis, that's fine, and that's fine, and that's saying, no, we're closing the schools. As a cabinet, we have followed that. But our initial goal was to keep the schools open. It is also a very important issue for young people in the whole of the crisis, in which we are constantly looking at what measures are being taken with groups of people. I myself called for the revolution in May last year, by shouting: please come up with your initiatives and ideas. We have also devoted all kinds of sessions to this, including with Generation Y and all other organisations to which young people are linked, with initiatives from the SER Youth Platform and so on, I will not mention all of this. No matter how much priority you give to something and how much importance you attach to it, the schools were eventually closed in March last year, not because we wanted to, but because they wanted to. And later we had to do it because we said: it is indeed a real risk if the schools remain open, given any subsequent waves in the crisis. The closure of schools has a huge impact on young people at that stage of their lives, if the number of social contacts is reduced in this way. I can dedicate very pious texts to that, Mrs Westerveld and I, the whole Chamber, the Cabinet, but if you bring back the contact moments and the schools are closed, then whatever you do, that will have a huge social impact. We will have to face that in the coming period. You can't completely fix that. We could not solve that and we cannot solve that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u19	I understand that, but that is why my point is not specifically about closing or not opening the schools, although education for GroenLinks and a number of other parties has always been the top priority. My point is broader. For a very long time there was far too little attention for the children and young people who needed the most help. Because of the corona crisis, that need has only increased. We see this in all the reports and we hear it all around us. Then I understand when I hear the outgoing Prime Minister say that the cabinet is talking to different delegations, but I still think there is a gap. There are a lot of kids with whom things really aren't going well, but that's a lot not the kids you're talking to. I am referring, for example, to the children whose parents are being evicted from their homes and who are on the streets. Then I'm talking about the kids who really need psychic help and don't get that help. I believe in the good intentions, but I think there really is a hole. This is not so much a question as an appeal to the outgoing Prime Minister to really talk to these children and these young people and their representatives in the open plan, because there is a huge gap here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u20	Affirmative. I do not know if I am doing all this myself, but at least the cabinet is doing so, including Minister Blokhuis. The whole DG COVID-19 programme is set up there. I agree. I also agree that there are still enormous delays to be overcome. Undoubtedly things haven't gone well for corona as well, but fortunately a lot of things have gone well. We will have to face the fact that, in our society, we will have to deal with the consequences of this crisis in health care, in our economy, and certainly among our young people. We'll see. We will have to face that with each other, and we will have to deal with that. If that's the call, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u21	Mrs van der Plas van BBB and then Mrs Ploumen van de PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u22	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to come back to the fairgrounds. The Prime Minister says, "Everyone's in the starting blocks." But I'd like to read you an app from a carnival operator. You must be thinking, "Here she comes with her apps." But once in a while, that's very convenient. He says, "Hi. Sorry to bother you, but we don't remember either. In principle, we can start on 30 June, as it now looks like. For months now we have been in close contact with the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Ministry of Economic Affairs about the conditions and consequences of all the rules that are imposed on us. Already before the last press conference, I had contact with an official of Justice and Security, who reported on the state of play. The next Monday, in a Zoom meeting, there was already the rule of one person per 10 square meters. On the question 'gross or net?' We still have no answer. We have been promised that the conditions under which a fair can be organised are known to each Security Council, as well as to the members of the UNG. Last Monday this was discussed again in the security talks, at least that is what we were promised. Now fairgrounds are already cancelled on all sides, because the conditions to be met are not known. See the press release of the Municipality of Vlissingen; I will forward it. Then we have a guarantee fund for events. Here, instead of insurance, you can claim damages in the event of failure to continue. It says as a condition that the organisation must have had insurance for two years. Now you may know that most of our fairgrounds are organized by the municipalities. They don't have insurance. The wrong SBI code remains a tragedy. Newcomers who can now apply for an RVO must do so on the basis of the third quarter, while here most of the fairgrounds were cancelled. We're talking on all sides, but the government just doesn't listen. In our view, there is gross negligence at the moment. You're not gonna get a chance to talk to the minister either. We have to do it with civil servants. But trust will run out in this way, you know."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u23	I think you are asking for a reflection on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u24	Yes. To Caroline van der Plas I say, please send it through. I will then ask Mona Keijzer, Ferd Grapperhaus and the NCTV to dive in, because of course they have those contacts. I don't have those conversations myself. What I know is that the sector also knows that this is about meetings that are covered by flow and/or unplaced events. They're only in step four. They're licensed. So you're gonna have to apply for that license. We're making that possible now. Last Monday, at the Security Council, Grapperhaus discussed this with the presidents of the 25 security regions, so that they can really be in the starting blocks and the municipalities are also in the starting blocks to deal with these permits. That's what I know. As soon as we publish the details of the step now foreseen on 30 June, all sectors will get all the details about how much per square meter and what you can and can't do at flow-through locations and in place and unplaced. So that could be a reason. But there is so much in that e-mail that I think it might be nice to say to colleagues: just answer the e-mail and at least include it in the follow-up conversations. Maybe that's the most practical thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u25	I understand the Prime Minister can't answer this straightaway. This is what I'm talking about. It says here: "It's going really well. We're in the starting blocks. Guys, everything's okay." But it's not. Those entrepreneurs are stuck between government and rules. They can't talk to the minister. They say, "We have to deal with civil servants." I don't want to take that away, because civil servants are just doing good work. But these people are still in trouble. That's what I'd like to report with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u26	I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u27	I want to show that on behalf of these entrepreneurs. If you'll give me your 06 number, I'll give you an app.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u28	You may have my 06 number, but on this Nokia no more than 180 characters. So I'd send it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u29	Texting's good, too. You can send it through the Registry and then it ends up with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u30	I think there is also some disappointment in the sector. They would have liked to have been in step 3. Maybe we can play along with that. It doesn't happen until step 4. That was also the discussion in the previous debate. Wilders and Hermans then also drew attention to this. We had to choose to take it with us in step 4. We did say: let's start the licensing process, so that you actually get about the same when it can start again. Anyway, that's an interpretation of the e-mail. Maybe there's a lot more going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u31	I understand that, but once again, entrepreneurs are stuck between regulations, ministries, officials and between what can and cannot be done. My request, my plea is: solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u32	That's a good idea anyway. I get it through the Registry, and then we're gonna make sure there's a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u33	Our country spends between 5 and 6 billion euros on police every year. With that money, we'll keep our country safe. At the VWS Ministry, all receipts are for about that amount. It can't be accounted for the size of 5.2 billion. That's a huge amount of money. Now, of course, it was last year's crisis and things had to be resolved quickly. The fact that this may not have led to all the protocols, is quite understandable. I have that understanding too, but I do not understand why EUR 5.2 billion is not accounted for. I would like to get a response from the outgoing Prime Minister, because it is his cabinet that fails to answer here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u34	In the new administrative culture, Mrs Ploumen does make a president of me and not a prime minister, but that is her choice. I'd really like to say something about it. It's a lot of money, but it's exactly what she says. I remember last year. We were here in March. We were here in April and May. There was a total panic on everyone. Do we have enough lung machines? Do we have enough mouth caps? What about deliveries from China? We were constantly looking at the graphs to see if we could make it. Can we scale up to 3,000 ic-beds? Even that's been on the table once. The fact that responsibility is not given a top priority in such a crisis is absolutely inevitable, but you will learn from it. So if Mrs Ploumen asks if I am happy with that, I say: no, of course not. We are not proud to look at that, but of course you have to look at it in that context. Hugo, I think the detailed answer is in your hands or... And next week it will be back in the Accountability debate! But I have to say: in such a crisis, I find it justifiable that you make mistakes on, for example, these kinds of accountability issues. That's inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u35	Make mistakes, that's possible. But an error of EUR 5.2 billion is no longer a mistake, especially as it was warned earlier. This year, but also in previous years, has been warned that accountability at VSW is not in order. I've been a minister myself, and that 5.2 billion is bigger than the budget I managed. I was Minister for Development Cooperation and we did a lot of humanitarian aid in wars and conflicts. However, a receipt was always provided there. People can now precisely track all expenditures on the website. They didn't even have faxes or wifi, let alone 5G. So I understand that in a crisis situation it is not exactly possible, but between exactly 5.2 billion and 5.2 billion is a very large gap. That 5.2 billion is really unacceptable and I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether... I want to hear a little more about that than "it was crisis time." He must also find this unacceptable. I suppose there have been some harsh words in such a cabinet council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u36	My nugget really breaks. How can Mrs Ploumen compare a crisis like this with a ministry that goes through a hundred billion a year, such a pandemic and such a crisis, with development cooperation? We have been doing this since 1945, structured and with a department with a thousand people, who do nothing but spend money on the Third World in a decent way. This is going to be done in fixed strategies, and we have built it up in years. We had to try here from mid-March last year to combat this happening all over the world, one of the biggest crises we saw after the war. Mistakes are made. I can tell Mrs Ploumen: there will be many more mistakes. Really, many more mistakes! I'm glad we made them, because if we hadn't made them, I know one thing for sure: we would have made a whole other mistake. We would not have fought the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u37	How can the Prime Minister find it acceptable that in a department where every year 100 billion goes into...? How can he find it acceptable that in such a department, even in a time of crisis, 5 billion is not accounted for? So here's my point. I also said at the beginning of my question: understandable that it did not all go according to the rules. It is understandable that at times not all vouchers are available, but listen to the President of the Court of Auditors: 5.2 billion not justified! So not "a little" or "effe find" or "we're going after it again." No, just not responsible! I'll ask the Prime Minister... You can all stand up and nod, but it is just 5.2 billion, which the Court of Auditors finds to be irresponsible. I just find it too easy to say: it was a crisis. That was it, and that is why we are more generous and that is why we are looking at our own role, because we have indeed asked here to buy mouth caps. You won't hear me about that. But it's really too easy to say: we're just gonna let it go completely. Again, that is especially so because this is a department where questions were already asked about the way in which accountability was given. It was warned in September. So it can't be that we're just gonna find this, because it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u38	I refer to the previous answer. Once again, I think it is absolutely necessary that we learn from the crisis. There will be many more lessons to be learned from this crisis, as the whole world is learning from this crisis. In the Netherlands, there is no doubt that many things have not gone well. If we had wanted to do everything exactly and properly, we would not have been able to fight the crisis ourselves when it was at its peak and we had to do things. That doesn't make any sense to me at all. But we're all gonna explain that nicely. That's what accountability debates are about. Then we're going to try to learn lessons from that: how can you do that better next time? But I would add that in such a crisis it is inevitable that it should happen. We are talking about a new administrative culture, I say that I take full responsibility for the cabinet. I'm not the head of the cabinet. I'm the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So I don't have all the details of exactly what happens until the last euro at the VWS ministry. But I have the greatest respect for what I have seen of what has happened there by hundreds of people who have all been taken out of their jobs and gone to work in crisis organisations. I saw this VWS minister sitting next to me, the Thursday Martin van Rijn took over, at the end of the week when Bruno Bruins fell out, managed to set in motion a non-existent patient spread system on weekends, so that we did not have a total flood of hospitals in Brabant. In that crisis, we had to work. We started calling like idiots for ventilator equipment. We're like idiots on the phone with China, suppliers, and you name it. That's what happens. I'm sorry if it doesn't exactly match the accountability or the finances. 5 billion is a lot of money and we have to answer for it; we are all going to do that. I don't have all the details in front of me here either. But that in that order of magnitude things go wrong is inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u39	Still a little while. We agree that things can go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u40	I think it's too easy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u41	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u42	It took the Prime Minister quite a long time to acknowledge that lessons have to be learned from it. We have here the General Political Reviews, which we conduct with you. I therefore believe that it is perfectly legitimate, also in view of the role of the Chamber, a supervisory task, to ask you that question. I'm not asking you to tell me where the $2 million went. No, I'm asking you to reflect on that huge amount of money: 5.2 billion. What does that mean for the lessons that have been learned? Why is it so complicated to acknowledge that despite that crisis, where things can indeed go wrong, that this really... 5.2 billion is an enormous amount of money! In his place, I'd have a stomachache.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u43	I think we have a repeat of moves now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u44	I would just like to ask Mr Van der Staaij if he would agree with Mr Kuzu's request because he has a question on the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u45	I think it's a very weak answer. Indeed, in the crisis, a lot of people in the department and in the field have worked very hard. However, the Court says that the corona crisis reveals structural weaknesses and that there have been no less than 17 shortcomings in the VWS budget over the last 20 years. In that sense, I think it is very easy for Mr Rutte, the Prime Minister, to go back to the crisis as the sole argument. We see that a great deal has gone wrong in the department in terms of accountability over the past 20 years. The question is: is this a question of just the administrative culture that we have had debates about in recent weeks, or is there something wrong with that, according to Mr Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u46	This has nothing to do with the administrative culture anyway; I'm not talking about that. It was about the division of roles and the resistance to roll. We must learn all the lessons we have to learn from this crisis. We're all going to do that, but if you don't mind, we're still fighting the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u47	Here we go again. The Prime Minister stated in his reply: it is about the crisis and we are going to learn lessons from the crisis. I say that this is not just a matter of the crisis; as far as accountability is concerned, it has been structurally wrong in the department over the past 20 years. No? Then you should look at the Court of Auditors' report carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u48	These are generalizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u49	You can make a hand gesture, but the Court of Auditors says: 'The corona crisis also exposes structural weaknesses'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u50	It always is, with every crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u51	"In the past 20 years, at VWS, as many as 17 times an imperfection has been found in the Ministry's grant management." Then De Jonge does so and then Rutte says: it's only because of the crisis. Just acknowledge that there has been a structural failure in accountability over the last 20 years. You can also choose as an answer: "Yes, we can see that. We see that there is a structural failure there and we are not going to let that happen again in the future." That's the answer the Chamber expects here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u52	Do you know where my annoyance is? That is exactly what I said in the direction of Mrs Ploumen. That annoyance is very simple. There are hundreds, maybe thousands of people there... Mr. Kuzu, if you don't want to hear the answer, I'm going to give it anyway. They have been removed from their jobs, have stood up to fight an impossible crisis. You must indeed be with us to learn lessons and correct mistakes that have been made. If things aren't structurally good, we're gonna do it. But the impact that these kinds of questions have on the people who have worked the snot in front of their eyes and have the feeling: oh, so we also had, which perhaps should have been better structurally in the past... Yeah, we're gonna learn from that. We're all gonna do that. That's fine. We do that to me, and we do that to Hugo de Jonge. But I am saying here via this microphone to all those people in the Netherlands who did this: how pleased I am that our priority was not exactly there, but that our priority was to prevent a further flood of this crisis. I'm so glad we did. And yes, if Mr. Kuzu and I are going to investigate any crisis in the world, then our report will always begin with the first sentence that reveals structural weaknesses. The second sentence will be that this crisis has been miscommunicated at important moments. These are almost the first two conclusions that we can write in every report on each crisis. And yeah, we're gonna take those lessons, too. We're all gonna do that, but we're gonna do it at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u53	Next week we will also have the Accountability debate. Then we can go into it in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u54	Sure, and Farid Azarkan will certainly do that. But I do mind Mr Rutte's answer. We are talking about an amount of more than EUR 5 billion, of which the Court says it is crisis time. Yeah, I get that. And if the Prime Minister gives the argument that there are a lot of hardworking people, I agree. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. But what I don't agree with is the ease and ease with which the Prime Minister puts aside about 5.2 billion. Why don't you tell that to one of those supplement parents? Tell that to someone in the assistance that misfills one euro, which gets a fine, gets into the Fraud Act and has to repay thousands of euros. Tell that to the lady who got tens of euros of groceries. Yes, you can nod that very easily for a while, but this is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u55	Can we keep it a little bit more business?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u56	I'm getting emotional about this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u57	I see it, and I see it on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u58	The ease of that 5.2 billion euros and the laughter there, that's really significant. Someone in the assistance who misinserts one euro...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u59	What a level you have. Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u60	But wait, Mr. Kuzu is talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u61	The level? If someone in the welfare system mis-fills an amount, then the world is too small. Then we're all on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u62	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u63	Why is he so easy about 5.2 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u64	Why is the Prime Minister being easy? The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u65	Where does Mr Kuzu draw the conclusion that I am easy to do about it? I'm not. We're gonna answer for it. That's what we have to do. If mistakes have been made, we admit them. If things aren't structurally right, we're gonna fix them. But we'll do that when that's on the agenda. There's another accounting debate. We are going to assess the whole crisis in detail and then many more errors will become apparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u66	I was asked the question: where do I get that from? This attitude, the laughter, the laughing away, the sneaking away, the surprised reaction, that's what I'm drawing that conclusion from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u67	Well, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u68	If I follow this little interruption debate, I think it's nice that we also have a debate on accountability in which you can go into it a little more extensively. Because the risk of the short summary is that you always feel that both sides of the matter are not being fully addressed: that you understand that mistakes are being made in a crisis situation and that, on the other hand, of course, demands can and must be made in a crisis situation. I think we can discuss this in detail next week. I now have a more earthly subject of the weddings. I do not want to discuss the details of the arrangements here, because this debate does not seem appropriate either. My question was: does the cabinet also see that there are differences of interpretation here? It is not a question of whether there can be all kinds of relaxation, but it is about, for example, what is happening in confined spaces? Isn't that what 30 people are for? Does that mean you can get together with a little club of people to celebrate? That kind of question. My question is: can we still look at this so that security regions and municipalities can give clear information about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u69	Yeah, sure. I understand that's what happened recently, but we're definitely going to do it again. This is where the number of people in marriage has increased to 50. That was 30 and the next step it goes to 100. That's the wedding ceremony. Besides, you're having the party. What could happen there? A party is unfortunately not yet possible at the moment and a dinner only in small circle. This is in accordance with the general rules in the catering industry, so serving and up to four people, children up to 12 and roommates are not included. That is the tragedy, that 50 people may be present at the wedding, but that for the rest all the rules apply to the catering industry. Of course, we hope to be able to expand there as soon as possible. I will indeed ensure that all this is now properly listened to by the public authorities and that we record it once again with the necessary authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u70	Again, in addition. The point that matters to me, too, is that in confined inner spaces, you can also get together with 30 people. Some security regions say that this means that you can also have a meal with each other and others say that it is a celebration that cannot be. It's about that kind of question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u71	I think the rule is that 50 people are allowed in a restaurant, but that doesn't mean they can sit at one table with each other. That's 50 on 1.5 meters and up to four in one group, not counting roommates and children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u72	Those are official restaurant rules, but not every indoor area is a restaurant. So that's where the rules formally apply... so that's the kind of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u73	Then we're gonna double-check that and make sure everyone knows exactly what's going on. I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u74	Thank you. Then Mrs. Bikker and then Mrs. Van den Berg. I had turned them around, but I heard from a reliable source that Mrs Bikker was actually standing there a little longer. So if you don't mind, I'll give Mrs Bikker the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u75	Mr. Chairman. That doesn't matter very much, but thank you. The Prime Minister is right to say that we are going to talk to the mayors about how to put out local fireplaces at a later date. That is in line with the motion I tabled together with Mr Heerma. I am pleased that the Minister did so after previous hesitations, precisely because of what we saw last summer: we hoped that the security regions would intervene, but that was not enough. That is my question. We are now entering a phase in which things seem to be going better and better, but at the same time we know that it can get a bit more exciting towards autumn. Will the Prime Minister then, in consultation with those mayors, ensure that there are handy scenarios in place so that they are really able to put out those local fireplaces and are they then shared with the Chamber, so that we are already very clearly preparing that endemic phase and also have the strategy very sharp?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u76	We're gonna fine-tune it. On the main lines, De Jonge will say something about this shortly. We will, of course, continue to work that out. And of course, you want to learn lessons from last year. The difference is lucky that you now have the vaccine. Hopefully that will lead to a much slower recovery than last year, and perhaps it will be very manageable. Last year, of course, we learned from the regional approach, in the first steps of the Roadmap. That wasn't very successful. So we're gonna take all these lessons into it. So the answer is actually yes. I think that today we can outline this in broad outline and so we will continue to detail this towards 1 September, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u77	This morning we could read in the media that next Sunday churches will also be expanded and that, if there is enough space, 60 people can go in, with distance, and that they can also sing softly. Which brings me to the question about the wheat. Because the largest cultural sector is the choir in the Netherlands: 1.7 million people are members of a choir. I was wondering if the Prime Minister could shed some light on the choirs, because they could also sit in that church and they could also be at a distance with 60 people. Many choirs are even much smaller than 60 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u78	Mrs Van den Berg did not put that question in the first term and would like to answer him well, so I will take him with me in second term if she promises to perform for Hugo de Jonge which is softly singing, because that's what he just asked. I'm gonna take a shot at that question about the corn. I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u79	No follow-up question, because if I haven't eaten cheese from anything, then it's soft singing. I did have a question about the nurses I was talking about in my first term. I believe that we will have to discuss labour market policy in detail later, but I would like the Prime Minister to respond to what I said in the first term. What does he say to an I.C. nurse who sees this week after a year of fighting that he gets zero percent salary increase, while in the same week millions are made of mouth caps deals and Booking's top men leave for America with tens of millions smiling? What's he gonna tell that Ic nurse to convince him or her that he's gonna keep doing the job?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u80	First of all, I think that Mr Kwint and I agree with what is going on here, and I think that we owe a great deal of thanks to the people in the care sector. Also to people in all kinds of places in society who have worked so hard, but certainly also in acute care in hospitals. Those tens of thousands of people there have done a herculean achievement. No one's doing anything about that. In the Netherlands, a very precise system of working conditions development, wage accommodation, collective agreements and so on is a very precise system. Mrs De Vries gave that very precisely. There is, of course, always, in the oval covenant, wage room for collective bargaining development. We made a deal about a bonus in the last year. This year we look very closely at all the issues surrounding it, namely workload, job pleasure, being able to perform your own function properly. So we're looking at all these things in conjunction. There is also another review, always, of whether we have a fair salary. But what the cabinet doesn't choose is true, that's what we're just disagreeing about.Across the board is a substantial increase, on top of what's already happening, of salaries in care. I can't. That costs billions. And then you just have to look at the coherence with other sectors and what is happening there. That's making choices in scarcity, which we do as politics. But the image that Mr Kwint called up a little bit, that nothing financially happens in the care, is not true. There are normal possibilities for collective bargaining developments in the various sectors of health care, based on the wage space made available every year for this purpose. This is also different from, for example, in education, where there is no automatic link.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u81	My question was what would the Prime Minister say to an ic nurse who was told this week that he would get zero per cent increase in wages which would convince them to keep doing this job. I think that Ic nurse will continue to do this work to a large extent, but I fear that this answer is not the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u82	I wouldn't want anything more, and so would Mr. Quint, than double all those salaries. I would like to double the salary of everyone in the Netherlands. But I can't. Our role here is to see, in that limited financial space there is, how you do it properly and how you make people earn fair salaries. That's what we're looking at. And it's more than just salary. They are also issues of workload and autonomy and whether you are dealing with your own job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u83	The cabinet is, of course, always faced with the difficult task of this type of debate to explain precisely why one is still and the other is not yet. That is always difficult, but also very understandable. What I really appreciate is that the Cabinet is always open to making a small adjustment if something is really illogical. In that respect, I have a question about the catering industry. The terraces are now allowed to accommodate 50 people, restaurants and cafes open inside, after the intervention following the Safety Council. But yes, if you have a hundred people somewhere in a catering establishment, then of course you prefer to have them all 100 outside, because that is the very best. If such a terrace can accommodate a hundred people with all the basic rules, why shouldn't you say: then they can sit all hundred outside? And then, of course, zero inside. In the end, that's better than forcing people to sit inside while out of the chance of spreading? So my question to the Prime Minister would be: would he be willing to make this small adjustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u84	No, but I get it. But why don't I do it? Because it's not enforceable. It is really impossible for enforcement to look: why are there twice as many people on this terrace then on that terrace? Oh, yeah, that's because nobody's in there. There's no way to do that. So I am totally sympathetic to what Mr Paternotte is saying, but it is really impossible to enforce. Fortunately, the figures develop in such a way that you hope to be able to quickly lift further restrictions. So hopefully it won't take too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u87	This brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's first term. We're gonna clean up for a while and then we're gonna continue with the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to classify my answer as follows in a moment. First of all, a block on the approach... I lost my touch for a second! We shouldn't want that, of course. First, a block on the approach, aimed at the longer term, so the next step of the open plan and then the transition to the endemic phase and how we want to deal with it. That's the first block. After that, everything about vaccination follows, then everything about travel and quarantine, then about testing and tracing and finally I have some questions that are organised under the heading of varia. Mr. Chairman. We're really getting into a different phase. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij said: there is a great deal to be thankful for. That's right. Today, we're gonna put the ten millionth shot. We're at 223 pricks per minute right now. We're at 1,100 people in the hospitals: only about 394 on the ICUs and just over 700 on the regular departments. Those are the latest figures from the LCPS. We have vaccinated almost half of the adult Dutch once and almost a quarter of them almost completely. We are really so incredibly far beyond where we were. In addition, it appears that the vaccination rate will also end very high, as vaccination readiness increases. That too is another great insurance in the future. So it is quite right and real that there are questions in the sense of "wouldn't we be able to take a step much sooner?" Or "when would we possibly be completely out of action?'. It is, of course, a blessing that we can now think and think about such questions. We could only have dreamed a few months ago that we would be there by now. When we think about that, a number of things are of great importance. First of all, there is the vaccination rate: it seems to end high. The latest studies show that, on average, the vaccination rate could be about 84%. That's all on the upper limit of what we ever expected. I think there has never been such a good picture of vaccination readiness. It would be great if we could end up there. Internationally, at European level, that would also be very high. Within the Netherlands, of course, there are differences. If vaccination rates are partly lower in a number of sub-community areas, for example in large cities, in migrant communities and among young people, or in the bible, then this could give us a slightly longer vulnerability and less protection, because the virus can still go around there. A second, really unknown factor is the extent to which the antibodies will decrease and under which age groups the antibodies will decrease, so which age groups could become vulnerable again from what time before that virus goes around. We just don't know that very well. Moreover, the assumptions currently made are not at all unfavourable. They are actually much more favourable than they were in the past, but still we do not know enough. So that really is an uncertainty. Another uncertainty is mutations. Of course, we've seen a number of variants. Part of it also attracts a little less attention from vaccines. You do not have to be all gloomy about that, because that is a little less of it, after all, a number of percentage points on the whole. There is certainly no variant at the moment that would attract very little attention at all from vaccines. That is not the issue at the moment. However, I think we should be careful, especially since only part of the world has been vaccinated. That could just give room for escape mutation. There may be mutations that are less attracted to the vaccines that we know so far. Now all vaccine suppliers are already in the process of adapting their vaccines to the latest variants. This makes it possible that we can actually be resistant to different variants in a periodic vaccination programme, a bit like we do with the annual flu vaccination. Anyway, that's a little bit of uncertainty. So it's actually about the decreasing antibodies, the number of mutations and the vaccination rate in the different subgroups. That's kind of the uncertainty we're dealing with. If I have to answer the question of whether it could be a real perspective for us to move away from action by 1 September, then I say: yes, a real perspective is certainly that. But we will also have to focus very well on and let ourselves be advised on what is needed for the coming period. Here's what we want to do. In principle, on 22 June, we want to take a decision on what we want to make possible by 30 June and how big that step can be. That is actually the one-after-last step of the open plan, because the final step is to say goodbye to the measures. In addition, in that week, the week that starts on Monday 21 June, we want to come up with a letter to the Chamber with a plan of approach to prepare ourselves for that endemic phase. There will be a number of issues. How do we want to deal with vaccination aimed at the periodic protection of the people who need it? Is that a booster for only the most vulnerable groups? Is that a booster for everyone? Is that one or two vaccinations? What do we expect for the time to come, of course, in so far as there is a ruling on this at the moment? So that's an element. Two is: how do we want to deal with testing and monitoring? It is very important to have secured this in a good way for the longer period after the summer. Is it only testing for complaints, or will it also require access tests when we come together with very large groups? We will have to answer that in that plan of approach. We will also have to answer the question of what instruments we really want to have in the toolbox, what tools we need to control the virus for a longer time. And then the question of proportionality comes around the corner. Mrs. Bikker is asking for that. She has also asked for this in previous debates. The Christian Union Group in the Upper Chamber has also asked for this. It's all extremely consistent. We must, of course, lay down the measures that are now included in the Twm along the line of what we really expect. Do we need them at all? If not, we can also remove it from the Twm. The second is: what measures would you possibly need, but if you do not need to activate in a ministerial arrangement, then you should leave them in the law, but do not activate them and what measures do you really want to keep activated? For example, the quarantine obligation for very high-risk areas that we have recently introduced. It is of course practical, also given all the mutations, to leave them in the toolbox for a while. In short, we want to come up with a letter in the week of 21 June in which we outline a plan of approach for the transition from the current epidemic phase to the endemic phase of later, at the level of vaccination, at the level of testing, at the level of the instruments and at the level of the legal arrangement, because that must support. Then, at least at the beginning of July, I hope to be able to send that law to the Chamber so that we can deal with it before the holiday, at least we want to make it possible for your Chamber to deal with it before the holiday. This affects the extension as of 1 September. The question is whether there is enough time after the recess, especially in the Upper Chamber, to deal with it in good time, if we do not want to extend the current Twm after 1 September. In short, we are coming up with a letter on that point in the week of 21 June. Then I think I have answered most of the questions about the longer term. Then there are the questions about vaccination. There's all kinds of subdesigns in there. Mr President, since I know you are so attached to cubes, I thought it would be nice to sort it out. First Janssen, then all the different groups we are working on, then the help to Suriname and also a number of other questions. First of all, Janssen. Yesterday there was an opinion from the Health Council. I said at the time that I think it is theoretical, but I find it difficult to handle it in practice. Let me explain what I mean by that. If you read that advice correctly, you can see that the Health Council is actually saying what he said before, namely that Janssen is just a good and safe vaccine. But the Health Council also says that you are now entering a very different phase. The contagion rate is much lower. That's a lot lower infection pressure. In the meantime, we are in a phase where we prick so quickly that we are also in younger age groups, who of a very serious course of corona don't have that much to think about. However, they must make a major contribution to the highest possible level of group immunity. They have to contribute to the group protection that we build with each other with vaccination. In that combination it is not entirely illogical that you arrive at a calculation that just works out in favour of Pfizer and Moderna. In addition, this very rare side effect, which is even more rare than with AstraZeneca, nevertheless occurs with Janssen, and not with Pfizer. So I get the math on my own. At the same time, I think it is a difficult piece of advice, because it is a fuss again. You noticed that yesterday. There were a lot of people's questions. "Can I still take it when I'm on the schedule?" "Is it still for me?" The answer to that question is, of course, yes. That's what the Health Council says: people who are now scheduled, just do it. Then, of course, you have people who haven't had it that long and wonder if they should be worried about it. The answer is, no, you don't have to worry about that. I'm glad you've had it. You can see how blazing our prime minister is. That may be an underlining of that part of the Health Council's advice. Only, you can write that down as a Health Council, but then there will be unrest and worry. We just know that. I'm sorry to hear that. I don't think that would have been necessary. When you see what the relative profit is, I don't think that's going to go against the stuff in the performance around Janssen. That's the reason for my reaction yesterday. How do we deal with it? Those who already had an appointment can just let them go on. Fortunately, less than 10% changed his appointment yesterday and so made another appointment for Pfizer. That means that most of the agreements that stood for Janssen remain. That's nice. The people from those age groups who still had to call for an appointment are offered already Pfizer or Moderna at once, so that doesn't cause any more hassle. Fortunately, we can continue with the special groups for which getting that first shot is very important. Fortunately, we can continue with that. That's what the Health Council said. That's what we're gonna keep doing. Think of the military who have to go on mission, the seafarers or the homeless and homeless. We're just gonna keep doing that. It is important to continue with this. That was a question from several groups, including the D66 Group and the VVD Group. These are not for nothing liberal groups which attach great importance to freedom of choice. Could we make that possible, too? I am not liberal at all, but I would very much like to make it possible. There are a large number of legal hooks and eyes and also a number of practical hooks and eyes. I would like to agree with you that next week I will inform your Chamber of whether, and if so in what way, we can shape that. At least the wish is there. The intention is there, because I would like to spend the 400,000 vaccines we get in June as usefully as possible. There's about 400,000, 300 of them. Then the question of whether this will lead to delays has also been answered somewhat; I believe that Mrs De Vries asked for it. Yeah, I said a couple of days. 400,000 you'll be poking away in almost three days. But you also have to add that second shot, because instead of one shot of Janssen, two shots of Pfizer or Moderna have to be given. So you have to add those few days after that. So let's talk about a week. That will be about the delay that this entails, if you cannot use it. That is also why I say: let us spend and deploy those Janssen vaccines we have as usefully as possible. The one about Janssen. I also have some other questions to answer about vaccination, of course, but this was about Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u89	Yes. Mrs Simons van Bij1 and then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u90	It was a little too fast for me. I got confused for a second. I hear the Minister talking about vaccinating young people, but not because group immunity. I actually have two questions. Could you repeat that for me? 'Cause I didn't get it right. There was a laugh, so I thought, "Do I miss an inside joke?" Is it true that the Prime Minister has had corona, but that he is blaken and we do not have to worry about it, or did I also misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u91	I think you misunderstood both points. Of course, it is all well read in the Acts at some point. First of all, the joke. By the way, it's really lame to explain jokes. Our Prime Minister looks blazing; let's at least establish that. That's just a factual finding. He was vaccinated with Janssen last Monday. There are pictures of it, on which it can be seen in light clothing. But the result counts and the result is here. In short, Janssen is perfectly safe. That's what the Health Council says. The reality and advice of the Health Council therefore agree on this point; I think that we should simply establish that. Secondly, with regard to our young people. What the Health Council uses in its reasoning is that we have now reached a completely different stage of the crisis. The Health Council says: "Look, we now have a much lower infection pressure. So the chances of you getting sick now are much less than the chance of you getting sick one or two months ago." We are now in the luxury of having a lot of vaccines and all the vaccines we have to spend are good and effective. If you should make a distinction, you only see that Pfizer and Moderna are just a little bit more protective and just a little safer, because there is not that very rare side effect playing with Janssen. By the way, it is extremely rare, but well, it occurs, not Pfizer. That's why they're just a little more effective and just a little safer, says the Health Council. This brings the Health Council to the sum that I can follow theoretically on my own and nevertheless find it virtually difficult to handle the people who still have to come but especially Pfizer and Moderna. With that word "group immunity," you jumped up and walked this way, I think, thinking, "What are we going to get?" What we have to do, of course, is to achieve the highest possible vaccination rate with each other. If you reach the highest possible vaccination rate, as many people as possible are protected. That's how you established group immunity through vaccination. That is, of course, very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u92	Yes. Mrs. Simons, has it been cleared? Fine. Mr Paternotte van D66 and then Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u93	The Minister refers to the liberal parties regarding freedom of choice. In fact, I heard him make that same plea yesterday. The nice thing is that two months ago, I believe, we had a corona debate in which we tabled a motion with 13 other parties asking for freedom of choice, but then with the AstraZeneca vaccine, following the Health Council's advice at that time. Then the Minister said: for the time being we need that, but around the end of May AstraZeneca is out of the vaccination strategy; if you have that left, I do want to make it possible for people to choose. Now that with AstraZeneca is not really very much at issue anymore. We're gonna send a lot of it to Suriname. The Minister's gonna say something about that. Then I think: that's been prepared for the past two months; then you cross through AstraZeneca, put Janssen there and we're going to make sure that as soon as possible anyone who wants to do so can say that like the Prime Minister, he wants the Janssen vaccine. I am a little concerned when he says: I will inform you next week about the legal possibilities and difficulties. I think there are a lot of people who would really like to be there. So yeah, do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u94	I understand that very well. So we've prepared it, too. We had it prepared for AstraZeneca. We've prepared multiple scenarios for how we could handle that. The IT adjustment has therefore been launched for a long time and should be able to go live on 9 June. But that's the IT adjustment in the GGD's appointment system. Here much more the question arises to what extent to organize informed consent on location and what that requires for the presence of medically trained staff, so just doctors. In addition, this is perhaps the most complex issue in this area: how the Health Council opinion relates to the Implementing Directive, and whether the Implementing Directive leaves room for individual application. Before we go into this whole legal debate completely: that is a complex question, which is vaccine-dependent and also dependent on how the Minister's decision on the Health Council opinion subsequently translates into the implementing directive. Especially the medical part of that is really also to medical professionals. We will, of course, have a great deal of discussion over the next few days on how to implement it as best we can. But very flat: what you don't want is that you offer the option and then doctors are individually liable if something goes wrong. If that is the case, I think doctors will be less willing to do so. You can still do that, but you don't really want to. So everything has to do with how this translates into the directive. The medical part of the directive is, of course, established by people with a medical background. They have to relate in their implementation practice to that Directive and also to the disciplinary law which relates to that Directive. That's a lot of legal work. But I'll come back to that next week. So apart from the practical question, there are a number of complex legal questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u95	First of all, I very much regret the uncertainty and the unrest that has caused that opinion. I hope that we will be able to prevent that in the future. Do I understand the Minister now that in mid-July the first shot and September 1st, the second one, is all moving up for a week? I had also asked which groups go back in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u96	The whole group. Everything that has yet to follow, all the years of construction that have not yet taken place, will slide for a while. Why can't I speak of a delay? That depends entirely on how we can still use Janssen. The biggest delay was caused by Janssen's delivery problems. In the meantime, we are assuming a worst case scenario in all the scenarios that we have been presented by the company Janssen, and that is that instead of 3 million Janssen vaccines in the second quarter, we will only receive 1 million Janssen vaccines in the second quarter. That saves 2 million pricks and that compares to 4 million of Pfizer's, because you'd be done with one shot. In case of previous setbacks, it has always been possible to compensate Pfizer's initially larger deliveries by means of an acceleration, for example because you draw more doses out of a vial. At Janssen's setback last week I indicated that it was not so easy to plan against it. That meant we had to go a long way in time. This could mean that you'd move a few days to a week in time, but we don't know that yet. Maybe we can still use Janssen on an individual basis, and then it could be very bad. We have to wait and see if that effect really is going to happen. You also asked about the 60- to 64-year-olds. The 60-64 year olds have brought Mr Wilders to the attention of several times. We all want to prick what the pot buys and just in order, everyone in turn and just grab the vaccine that you're offered. Of course we all do. Mr Wilders has said that it is all 60-plussers who are more vulnerable, and that is just the case. Whether we think it is a sensible reason or not why they did not use AstraZeneca, the fact is that some of the people did not use AstraZeneca. That is why we have said for health reasons: Pfizer. This was the first moment we could choose after all 60-plussers and all people with high medical vulnerability had been done, and after all general practitioners were given the opportunity to give the first shot in any case. In short, this was the best time to announce this. I do not know exactly how many people we are talking about, so I cannot say whether this has actually led to delays. However, I do not think that the word 'delay' is appropriate here because this is where a vaccine is supposed to happen, namely from storage and in an upper arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u97	Clear. Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u98	I think there are a lot of questions with the people, for me personally and for the group I'm in. A lot of people need to be vaccinated as quickly as possible, and that is only to be praised. The minister says there may be some delays, but I don't hear much from him about how you could speed things up. For example, could there be more vaccines that could be punctured? I would like to challenge the Minister to take action on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u99	You can assume that everything, everything, everything has been done and is being done to produce more vaccines as long as this is possible. There's only one thing that determines the rate of pricking, and that's delivery. We have done everything in our power to do so, and so we have tried to maximise our share of the vaccines to be delivered by putting our finger on all option contracts. That worked out pretty well. An additional delivery of Pfizer was the second real acceleration, especially that from q4 to q2. Yesterday, moreover, I understood that this was not entirely possible in all weeks. Every now and then, 100,000 more are nibbled off in a week or so. Anyway, that's 100,000, and that won't have such a huge impact on the very big planning. But this type of delivery changes very much determine the pace. The acceleration was in it by removing more doses from a vial by using newer needles, and it succeeded. With this we have achieved a considerable acceleration and we can get a prick more from the current Pfizer vials. That adds up a lot and there's a real acceleration in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u100	Yes, Mr President, in the last few days 1982 was really knocking on my door with the question: when is this announcement going to come? I'm glad he finally got here this morning. I was just thinking about what the minister just said about informed consent. I honestly don't get it. At AstraZenica, there was an age restriction. The directive was not to prick under 60 years in principle. So you do have a problem with informed consent. There has to be. But Janssen is just called safe by the Health Council. In principle also effective, but less effective than Pfizer and Moderna, it is said. It can still be punctured from 18 years. We do, for example, in the case of seafarers. What, other than good health care and appointment doctor/patient, exactly is required for liability assurance, which allows you to schedule those appointments for Janssen in a week, on 9 June if it is technically possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u101	I would really like to propose that this debate be held as soon as we have been able to inform you about it. I would like to introduce this to Mr Paternotte through the chairman. To give a shot: it has to do with the translation into the implementing directive. The Implementing Directive should leave room for individual application within the vaccination programme. If not, individual application is still possible, but requires much more in the way the doctor does prior counseling. It takes a lot more in the legal form of that medical act. This then leads to liability which is no longer the responsibility of the Minister, which is true if it remains part of the directive. It becomes a liability that lies with the individual physician. That doesn't necessarily have to be a showstopper, but it does require a very different type of design and probably also a reduced willingness of doctors to be part of that application.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u102	You'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u103	I would really like to propose to Mr Paternotte to give us the opportunity to look into everything in detail. Maybe the problem isn't so bad. Even if it's not easy, I want to fix it anyway. I shall come back to that, because I think the wish is identical. The wish is an individual choice option. Then the groups. Different questions have been asked about different groups. In fact, the core of these questions is: do we reach everyone and ensure that it is offered at a low threshold enough? We have chosen in the Netherlands precisely to put the groups that needed the highest protection all the way up front. We have then chosen to prioritise special groups asking for a special approach in their reach at national level. These include undocumented, homeless and homeless people and people working at embassies in a country with a very weak health care system and a very high infection pressure. I could mention a huge list of groups. These are the groups that have been prioritised to date, for which an approach exists in each GGD region. Two. In such a region, you can also see that the vaccination rate in some neighbourhoods, apart from the target group, is low. That can have a lot of backgrounds: people who are not very powerful in the Dutch language, for example, or people who are low-lettered. People who depend on what people say to them for their information and are therefore more susceptible to all kinds of alternative theories, conspiracy theories, or whatever you want to call them. There we see that the vaccination rate may be lower. In large cities, where socio-economic health differences can be large at all, you can see a very large difference in vaccination rates per district. We really cannot solve this district-oriented problem from The Hague. That's what every GGD is doing right now. There there is quite unlimited use of all kinds of possibilities that the GGD has, including via pop-up locations, via pop-up buses: as thresholdless as possible. Do you have to do that generically already? I don't think that's convenient. Let's prick as many people as possible as soon as possible. You're really doing that right now through the G.D.D. streets. But every GGD region prepares for a summer to prick as easily as possible. "The GGD is coming to you this summer." I don't know who coined this slogan. I thought it was Mrs Pouw-Verweij. That's exactly how it's gonna be in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u104	Mrs Ploumen, or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u105	Or would you like to finish the other groups, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u106	First, a brief question from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u107	Good to hear the Minister shares the analysis and observation that something extra was needed and is needed. My question was specifically about the following. I see, and so does Mrs Bikker, what is now being done by the GGDs. Our proposal will ensure, let's say, that at the end of the summer, when everyone who wants to be vaccinated is generically able to make all kinds of low-threshold locations possible. I'm not so much concerned with who exactly controls that. I am concerned that the Minister is in charge of this, and that makes it possible if it is not yet possible. That's what I'd like to tell him. Again, all the appreciation for what the GGD's and a lot of GPs are doing now. But maybe later that will still be necessary. Then I assume it would be good if the Minister had a plan for that or asked others to draw up a plan for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u108	Yeah, exactly. That's exactly what we're doing. So I totally agree with you. That's exactly what we need to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u109	In addition, my concern is that we continue to think a little too much in policy. As a former alderman, the Minister knows very well how much a municipality knows the district, knows the district networks and can get close to people in ways that actually give them the information they need. Through the government they somehow don't get it in well. I want speed at that point. I don't want to wait until the summer break and people cross all the borders, if that's possible, or at least get people on the road again. I want people, for example, those from 1982 who are in the neighbourhoods, to be able to go to them now. I ask the Minister, on that point, of the municipalities in cooperation with the GGDs very often they work well together, or are they even among the municipalities in order to give priority to the practice, rather than the bureaucracy, which invents plans and pilots again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u110	I don't quite understand what Mrs Bikker is saying right now. You're against something that isn't going on, and for something that we're already doing. I think we're just agreed: the GD's need to get the room to get to work in the neighborhoods. Indeed, the municipalities and the GGD's know much better what is needed in a district than that we could decide from The Hague with our knees under the desk. So there must be regional, local plans, and no dictations from here. But I also understand what Mrs Ploumen means, namely: make it happen. Don't write exactly how, but make it happen. I very much agree with that. That's what we're doing. That question also lies with the GDD. Each GGD region makes a plan for this. Anything that is necessary and what helps to achieve the highest possible vaccination rate in any group, we must do so. Everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u111	The Minister is very committed to this. He doesn't have to be afraid that I want to misunderstand him. I'm gonna scrape my throat, because I'm even gonna get stirred up by it. You can imagine that. I heard Mr. Van Delden talking about pilots yesterday. Then I'm afraid we're gonna try something again, then it's gonna have to be national policy, and the GGD won't be able to get to work until then. If that were to be thought anywhere, anywhere, in a neighborhood where action is now needed, I would regret that. That's why I'm so challenging the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u112	I understand that very well. You certainly don't have to be afraid of that. I know, for example, that in my own old town in the Maassilo the homeless are being pricked into mobile units. The bus in Friesland has been mentioned. You have pop-up locations, for example in Utrecht. I think Mr Van Delden meant to say that there is a great deal of good going on in all these regions, and they all look together to learn from each other. So there's a lot going on already. All the GGDs are working on this and all the GGDs are very good at ensuring that you reach everyone up to the level of the capillaries of the neighborhood. Mr. Chairman. We continue with the Dutch abroad. That is also a rather special target group. In the letter I indicated that we have been talking to them a number of times. I think that Mrs De Vries and I agree that we should also try to give them room to make use of the vaccination. Invitations are based on address files in the basic registration. If one is in it, one gets an invitation. If one is in the Netherlands for more than a month as is actually the case for others, for example after a stay abroad, and the year of construction is up, then you can simply call in. That even applies if you don't have an entry in the basic registration. If you are in the Netherlands for more than a month and you have an ID to prove your year of construction, you can just get a vaccine. It is more difficult for Dutch people who live abroad, do not come to the Netherlands and have no registration in the Basic Registration. It's getting complicated to reach those people at all, because we don't know who they are and where they are. We assume: if you are not registered in the Netherlands, you are probably registered in another country. And in that other country, you're just part of the vaccination campaign there. Now I think Mrs De Vries means: have we really had everyone? Are there really no more white spots, groups falling between shore and ship? I'm not sure. I would like to discuss this with the club that represents them. I have just lost the name of that club in order to see if we are still missing people who could not get anywhere. My picture is that it's pretty covering, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u113	Thank you for that commitment. It would be nice if the Minister could report on the possibilities within 14 days. The group of Dutch people who visit family does not come for four weeks. They may only last one or two weeks, so they're not eligible at all. Perhaps not every country will be able to vaccinate foreigners who live there, as we do. So there really are people out there. That group is very diverse, I understand that. But there are good examples of countries, such as France, where, for example, agreements are made with embassies, who talk to the country in question about eligibility for vaccination. I'm really interested in solving those issues. If the Minister can promise that within fourteen days he can come to the House of Representatives with a letter in which he writes what the discussion has resulted in, I hope for a positive result..... saves me another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u114	It would be wonderful if we could achieve that. Of course I'm gonna try. We would like to learn from France and others. But I was told that France has a similar policy for French people abroad as we have for Dutch people abroad and Germans for Germans abroad. Nevertheless, I am going to promise Mrs De Vries that in order to avoid this motion, I will be happy to discuss it with the representative organisation and that I will report on it in two weeks' time. Perhaps that will show that there is still a single white spot that we simply cannot solve, but at least I will make it clear what we can do and what we may not be able to do yet. Mr Paternotte asked when the children would be vaccinated. The EEA announced on 28 May that Pfizer is safe and effective from 12 years of age onwards. Pfizer was admitted from 16 years of age. So we have already made the children of 16 and 17 years of age with a high medical risk part of the vaccination strategy. For example, children with Down syndrome 16 and 17 years of age are already invited and are already vaccinated. In addition, I asked the Health Council to advise on the vaccination of children as early as the beginning of March. This led to advice on 9 April to vaccinate children from 16 years of age in high-risk groups with Pfizer. That possibility has now been offered and those children have also been pricked. In the same opinion, the Health Council indicated that it would come back later to the need for vaccination of children with or without medical indication under 16 years of age. Following the publication of the EEA opinion, I asked the Health Council to advise as soon as possible on the use of the Pfizer vaccine for children from 12 years of age in the Dutch context. I expect to receive an opinion on this in mid-June. I would like to add that it might well be a matter of urgency, but that is of course up to the Health Council itself, of course, that there are two parts to this opinion. You have the more principled discussion whether you should even want healthy children, who are not or hardly at risk of serious corona infection, to be vaccinated. You should only do that if it is necessarily necessary for further building group immunity. In addition, of course you have children who could also be at risk for a serious process. It seems to me to be a little less complicated, to put it this way. So the Health Council could be advising in two parts. But let us wait and see. In mid-June, in mid-June, I expect an opinion from the Health Council on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u115	Waiting for the Health Council's advice for all teenagers, I think we all get that. The last opinion of the Health Council was from April. At that time we were still inviting the really highest risk groups and the 70s. In the meantime, we are on the point of almost inviting Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u116	So young? Oh, my gosh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u117	Let me give you an example of a letter I received from a parent. The parent, of the #ForgetOur KindsNietHugo group, e-mails about this out of despair: "16-year-old daughter with a congenital heart disorder, under treatment in the LUMC because of, among other things, a leaking heart valve and a heart rhythm disorder. The GP says do yes, as soon as possible that vaccine. The cardiologist says do it!" The vaccine is authorised on the European market. Germany does it, France does it, Italy does it. It's a no-brainer. Why would you do that for that group that wants it of its own free choice, in consultation with the doctor... in this case, are several doctors... waiting weeks with it? I really can't reach that. I hope that the Minister also wants to make the move, by saying: yes, for that flu stick group I want to create that possibility as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u118	Again, children 16 and 17 years of age with a high medical risk are already invited. It's been a long time. They've already been punctured. These are simply defined high-risk categories. Also in 18-plussers these are simply defined categories. In addition, there is a request for advice from the Health Council. The Health Council will join in mid-June. That's pretty soon, actually. It is now early June, so mid-June is actually close by. So I think we can give the answer to your question very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u119	I don't understand why we should wait any longer. England, Germany, France, Italy, the United States, Canada, they all started and basically all teenagers. Well, I'm not even asking. I'm only asking for teenagers, like...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u120	That's too generic a summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u121	13 years, asthma, is in the flu puncture group, has been at home for a year as a precaution. Sometimes roommates have been staying home for a year. That may not formally fall under 'high medical risk', but if they have been quarantined for a very long time on the advice of the doctor, then I think those people should at least be given the choice. Especially if their doctor recommends it. If an opinion is still awaited, while all other countries do not, it is safe and effective and the vaccine is allowed by the EEA on the European market, then I really cannot explain it anymore. I really can't explain that anymore. I note that the Minister is somewhat less flexible about this than he can explain on other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u122	I did not understand the latter, except if Mr Paternotte meant it as a compliment, but I am not sure. I don't think we need to convince each other of the need. I do not think we need to have that debate. I do insist on how we should leave the highest advisory body in the position of the vaccination strategy in the order of things. The question has been asked to the Health Council. The answer has come in part, first of all for high risk groups aged 16 and 17. That answer did not include the flu puncture group. Although one could, one did not do so. That was the Health Council's advice. That is why I followed that advice in that way. So I just stayed there with the advice of the Health Council. That also means that the Health Council has work to do. That's what people do. In the coming weeks the advice will be sent in the direction of VWS. Then we can decide very quickly. I expect to say this as a pre-announcement that one part of the opinion might be earlier than the other part of the opinion. The advice for children with a higher medical risk will, I think, be less complicated than the advice on whether you should even want all children from 12 years of age to be pricked. Many countries deal with this very differently. Moreover, I do not think this is necessarily important, because I believe that we in the Netherlands are based on the advice of the Health Council on target group application. I think it is important to be able to decide for myself. It is not the case that because an institution in another country gives a certain advice, we also have to follow it. I do not think Mr Paternotte would argue that either. In short, I think we are very much in agreement on the urgency of the target group. You know that, too. Two is that I attach to a good order of things. That's an advice from the Health Council and then act fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u123	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u124	I would like to support Mr Paternotte, because it is a formal answer to a very specific problem that has been affecting these families with children at high medical risk for a long time. They are families, many of which have been in voluntary quarantine for a very long time. Still! Those families avoid a lot of risks, so the kids don't run into anyone else anymore. I understand that the Minister says 'we are looking at the advice of the Health Council' and the different categories, but there are also just children here. Those children do not necessarily fit under any of these categories, whereas they do now have a big problem. I do not understand very well why the Minister does not say to Mr Paternotte and the Chamber: you are absolutely right and we are going to ensure that urgency is given so that these families can be clear in the very short term. You can, because it's not about a lot of kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u125	Just for a second. When it comes to individual very poignant cases, a doctor can always make his own choice if someone is sitting across from him at his desk. He can always make his own choice and that is not the problem. As always in this kind of discussion, this is about the definition of the group concerned. In any case, the Health Council has appointed the people with a high medical risk. This runs from 16, 17 years and the Health Council has done so on the basis of the previous request for advice. So right now, it's really about whether you could broaden this group and where you could broaden it. I do attach myself to an objective definition, because otherwise, I think, it becomes very difficult to apply. The invitation policy, for example, will be very difficult. So I really attach great importance to a good definition, which can then also be used in the implementation. That is why the Health Council advises on this and that we then rely on the Health Council. We do the same for adults, and that seems very useful to me. We have done it with the medical indications in the adult target group, and that seems to me to be very useful here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u126	I understand the Minister wants to walk the royal road, but perhaps then it's an option to... Between the lines I listen to the Minister that he sees need and usefulness. I myself think that the Health Council could, moreover, give relatively simple advice on this. Couldn't this be an earlier part of the Health Council? Can we at least ask the Health Council to do so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u127	I did!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u128	...so we don't have to wait for it to come to us in mid-June?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u129	I already have. I have already encouraged the Health Council, on the basis of the EEA authorisation on 28 May, to come forward with this part of the opinion earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u130	I would just like to support Mrs De Vries, Mr Paternotte and Mrs Westerveld's request and comment. So we are talking here on the one hand about a category that has already been mentioned more generally: 12 to 18 years is safe to vaccinate. Then we've been doing it for 16 years. So what is the problem of moving the group from 16 years of age with some indication to the group of children from 12 years of age? So we can start with that tomorrow. I, too, receive emails from parents saying: "We have been quarantined for a year. We have a child that is very vulnerable and that is why we are waiting for that vaccination." Other countries are already doing so, and I would therefore really like to call on the Minister to deal with this very pragmatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u131	I asked the Health Council to bring forward this part of the opinion. I will inform you as soon as possible, Mr President. Mr President, I shall continue. I've had a lot of groups. Mrs Gündoğan van Volt asked about the vaccination of asylum seekers, homeless and migrant workers. They're all actually in the groups we've got at gunpoint at the GGD to make sure we can reach them as best we can. In fact, there is a separate action for this type of target group in each region to reach them. This is a little different in every region, because it also depends on how the local structure is set up. But we make sure that we actually reach all these groups, because we think it is necessary. On this point, Mrs Gündoğan also mentioned communication. We're doing a lot about that. For example, we are looking at the media that are particularly accessible to special target groups. We're looking at target-oriented resources. We work with Pharos, with Steffie, when it comes to reaching the low-literate, and with the Reading and Writing Foundation. We actually work with any organization that could help translate the information for certain target groups. Sending alone often doesn't help; I think you're right about that. For example, what you have to try with people who aren't powerful in the language is to reach their environment. It can then be a support channel for the group that you would really like to reach. So we are really trying to get through to the capillaries of every neighborhood, to reach people there. Then the 80-plussers. Mrs. Den Haan says that part of that doesn't show up for the second shot. What can we do to invite as many people as possible to the second shot? Fortunately, we can look forward to a very high vaccination rate and willingness among older people. The vaccination rate is 87% among 65-plussers and it goes, all Korean, over 90% if you add up the vaccination rate and willingness. But it does seem like not everyone got their second shot. That's why we're working with all kinds of repeat invitations. For example, we do this with the 60- and 64-year-olds. That's what we do with the 90-plussers who live at home. We've already done the 80 to 89-year-olds. Then we move on by age group. This is how we always try to invite everyone. We look at each time in the central registration so it is also so important in which groups the range is still insufficient. We can split that up at age level and at municipality level. That's how we keep trying to extend the range. Then the aid to Suriname. A number of questions have been asked. The situation in Suriname is very alarming. I have had a number of consultations with my Surinamese colleague, who, by the way, has just called me 'good morning'. I think it'll be there tomorrow. We help where we can, because it's just necessary. What Mr Paternotte said is quite right: we have a special connection with Suriname. Many Surinamese Dutch people have a very special family relationship with Suriname. That's why we're very happy to help. In any case, we have speeded up deliveries to the GP this is about the 60- to 64-year-olds. We wanted this very much in the Netherlands, because this could shorten the interval between the first and second shots. That also means that you have to donate earlier, because under 60 years we don't use AstraZeneca anymore. So you have to donate earlier. That is what I have promised anyway: from week 25 we will donate 500,000 to 750,000 vaccines, as Suriname needs. In advance, we said: we could already play some 40,000 vaccines which we expect would stop the general practitioners from ordering for the second shot because they had left of the deliveries for the first shot. That's what we anticipated, and that's the 40,000 that was brought forward. I saw the message from the NIS this morning about 100,000, but that's not true. There are no 100,000 vaccines left now. Then you would have nothing at all if one delivery of AstraZeneca was disappointing. Then the message could be in two weeks: we cannot deliver the general practitioners because we have sent our stuff to Suriname. So that's not a good thing to do. We have indeed kept something of margin. We always do. Especially with the deliveries of AstraZeneca that is necessary, because every week is a surprise what you get. That's why we did it. As soon as we can clear more, there is also more going to Suriname. That's just gotta be the deal. What we have also done is that take-out we could do in the stock management... is a delivery of two times 25,000 Moderna. It also accelerates to Suriname, if that's okay. "If that's okay" sounds a little crazy, but we should get permission from Moderna first. Deliveries and donations must be settled by contract. With all the other suppliers, we had already arranged that. For Moderna was not possible so far, but one is willing to cooperate. In short, we're gonna donate. That's what needs to be done. But we're not just gonna donate, we're gonna help in another way. Tomorrow, a mission under the direction of Marc Sprenger, former dg of the RIVM, will leave with him on the plane... The first plane has already arrived with equipment, medical devices, personal protective equipment and, for example, oxygen equipment. Tomorrow the mission will leave with staff as well. In addition, Marc Sprenger will map out how we could help even further, either with materials or with people, because we really want to help. We have had a number of consultations to ask: what does Suriname need right now, what type of expertise should there be in that medical team? We can provide for what is needed in the shortest possible time, in particular Ic nurses, doctors, laboratory supplies and laboratory staff. In short, we help where we can and we help even more if we can help even more, because we think that is necessary and important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u132	I think I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Paternotte and certainly on behalf of Mrs Ploumen when I say that I am very happy with this answer, the enthusiasm and the responsibility felt. On behalf of my colleagues, too, I would like to ask the following out loud. Week 25 is, I think, out of my mind at the end of June. If the situation is so acute and there are people leaving tomorrow, why can we not have the vaccines that are already here and can be exported by now? Get there and take tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u133	This has to do with the free play and with the export licence. There's a plane leaving next week that's already scheduled to take that, so next week vaccines are going that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u134	Then I have one more question for the Minister. There's gonna be human strength in Suriname tomorrow, too. My sources say, for example, that there are also people in the Defense Department who can help with the installation of oxygen equipment. The Minister has regular contact with his Surinamese counterpart. I can imagine that we can also use human power in the field of logistics when the vaccines are there and need to be rolled out, not only in the city, but also in the interior of Suriname. The question is: could we also provide this human force?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u135	Sure. One of the intentions of the mission, why Marc Sprenger himself is going that way tomorrow, is to investigate how we can help even more. I understand that five soldiers are already there as part of the medical mission. But it could be, as you say, that we can also support logistics. I will give the question to Marc Sprenger to investigate in which way we could also support logistics in Suriname.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u137	Mr. Chairman. Then I will continue with some other questions about vaccination. The patents. Last week we had a very exuberant debate on the patents. Let's not do that all over again. We're still willing to have that conversation. I said "last week." It has already been two weeks, but my position has not changed and neither has yours; I have just been able to take note of that. Mrs Ploumen says "consistent." Yeah, it's called consistency. Keep it up. So that's very good. Of course, we are going to continue this discussion extensively at the WTO, but we are still hesitant: how is this a short-term solution and how does it lead to more vaccines in the short term? Isn't it much more about scaling up production capacity? Isn't there a lot to get donations started anymore? Isn't that a much more important and much faster way to helping out the low-income countries? I would think so. That's our conversation in the WTO. We are willing to have that conversation, but we have to ask whether that really helps. We still have the United States proposal under discussion. Then the yellow book. Mr Paternotte asked. We do not need to repeat that debate. In the letter we fully explained the status of the yellow booklet. This has, in particular, a formal status in relation to yellow fever. It's fine to add things to that. Of course, that happens very often and people also attach to it, but with that it does not yet have a formal status. He just doesn't have it. But because there is a question, the GD regions themselves have said I have already said that I do not want to oblige them to do it. It was a bit different: some regions do and some regions do not. The GGD regions have now said: we are all going to do it. I think those questions have been answered. Then COVAX. That's what Mrs. Bikker is asking for. We are one of the donors of COVAX. What we are doing now is a bilateral action towards Suriname. We could have done that via COVAX, but because this is a more direct and faster road, we are now doing a bilateral action towards Suriname. I do not rule out any more of this type of bilateral support measures, but we will have a surplus of each vaccine at some point. What we want to do in principle is donate through COVAX, because we think that should be the distribution system. It also saves a lot of logistics stuff. COVAX can then monitor under the flag of the UN where countries are most in need and where it is most important to help as quickly as possible. Once again, we reserve the possibility of bilateral support. So we don't do everything through COVAX, but COVAX has to work. It's working, by the way. COVAX needs to work even better. We'll do that, among other things, through all kinds of donations. By the way, all the Member States of the European Union are so worried and we have bought ourselves an accident, of course, so there is also a lot of vaccine for the coming period, also to donate. Mrs Den Haan asks what can be done to ensure that people who could get that second AstraZenecaprik earlier. What we agreed with the general practitioners is that we will at least ensure that we delivered them all in June. I think that's important. Week 25 is therefore the last week in which we deliver the general practitioners. Since then, at least the general practitioners have been given the vaccines to put that second shot. I can't tell from here when that second shot will actually be made. We have 5,500 general practitioners and of course they determine that a bit themselves. But general practitioners also understand that people are very much waiting for that second shot, especially in view of the holidays. So I'm assuming that that's just gonna work out and that they're just gonna plan it in a good way at their own discretion. Those were the vaccination questions, Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u138	Before you go there, Mrs. Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u139	I asked the Minister another question about vaccination in the Caribbean, in particular about the fact that not only is the vaccination rate still very low, as in Saint Martin's, with 32%, but that there is also a very low vaccination rate. That's very disturbing. The Minister is all taking additional measures here and looking at how the neighbourhoods can be entered and how people can be convinced, not only by sending, but also by entering into the conversation. I wondered what measures the Minister would take in the Caribbean, especially since the people there are of course very economically dependent on tourism and therefore the economy is even more vulnerable than here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u140	Of course, we have sent a lot that way. When things were very exciting and things were very bad in the care sector, we gave priority to ensuring that they were vaccinated. A total of 380,000 vaccines went that way. I think it has succeeded in getting the outbreaks out of there very quickly. It worked. Medical personnel have also gone that way. There is also additional, even accelerated, delivered towards Bonaire, Curaçao and Aruba. The Secretary of State for VWS has also appointed a vaccination envoy to support the islands in the vaccination programmes. There are various consultations on a weekly basis to ensure that the vaccination rate is further increased. On a number of islands the vaccination rate is not very low at all. On Bonaire it is 74%, on Saba 91% and on Aruba and Curaçao 63%. But on Saint-Eustatius and Saint-Maarten, 47% and 35%, it is really too low. So that's where extra attention is paid to how to further increase it. Additional investments are being made to see how you could reach everyone. It is likely that we will also need local opinion leaders to ensure that resistance is further broken and the willingness to do so is increased. This week there is a meeting to discuss best practices and bottlenecks. Where else could we help and where else could we support? Then travel. Maybe I should say something about the quarantine duty first. We treated quarantine here a week or two ago, I believe. Then we determined how we would like to apply this quarantine obligation, to whom we would like to apply it and why we need it. I'll get to the target group first. We have applied the quarantine obligation to very high-risk areas, also to ensure that the duty is proportionate, following the comments of the Council of State. What are very high-risk areas? These are areas where you can see that the incidence is high, namely more than 500 infections per 100,000 inhabitants over the past 14 days. They are further areas where we know that according to the WHO list there is a 'variant or group' going around. And besides, they are areas where RIVM says: "We actually know so little about that, and so little is monitored or sequenced that probably the incidence is very high there, but well, we don't hear that from the official figures." One of these three cases may be a reason to be classified as a very high risk area. We made a list of them. It is updated weekly on the basis of advice from RIVM. Those very high-risk areas are also identified and made public on the Foreign Affairs site. Those areas shall be subject to compulsory compulsory compulsory quarantine. Now Mrs Van den Berg asks: "But can you impose high-risk areas on a mandatory quarantine?" Well, no, not on the basis of the law as we established it. We have deliberately distinguished between "high risk" and "very high risk." That is what we have done for the sake of proportionality, which the Council of State has also encouraged us to do. And so it has been established in both chambers. So that arrangement is in effect on June 1st. Then Mr Paternotte asks: "But then you have that quarantine obligation now, and then you apparently don't need any more flight bans?" He asked: "Why do we act differently from Germany and some other countries, for example?" First of all, we always rely on the advice of RIVM. We have asked RIVM to what extent the flight ban in a number of countries still needs to be maintained if we now have a quarantine obligation. We have asked: does the OMT regard this quarantine obligation as an equivalent replacement and equivalent protection for those travellers from very high-risk areas? That's the case. That's RIVM's advice. And that is why we have felt enough comfort to say that we are abolishing flight bans in their present form, because there is a enforceable quarantine obligation. That's one. "Yes, but Germany, and then what to the UK?" The UK currently has a lower level of infection than the Netherlands. There's a lower level of contagion. "Yes, but they do have that Indian variant." That's right, they do have the Indian variant in the UK, but a lower level of contamination than in the Netherlands. It's a bit crazy to announce a flight ban in the direction of a country with a lower level of infection than that in the Netherlands; that's really a bit crazy. What we do do, however, is just that PCR obligation. So we have the Schengen Act, and we also have the test obligation, that PCR obligation towards the UK. Of course, that also offers proper protection. And for the very high-risk areas we even have a double test obligation and a quarantine obligation to prevent exotic variants coming on Dutch soil or to prevent virus imports. Why is an actual quarantine obligation an effective instrument? Because it actually kills the virus. I would say that it is a more effective instrument than a flight ban. For there will always be exceptions to a flight ban. So even if you're banned from flying, you're not guaranteed "no import." In addition, the virus comes in through humans, not by plane. So if those people travel in a different way than by plane, you still have a chance of spreading. So the idea that you're going to keep mutations out of the door in the Netherlands through flight bans in a very long way is, I think, an idea that we should leave. Is there any mention at this time of the very exuberant presence on Dutch soil of the Indian variant? Well, it seems from the sequencing of this moment that that is not the case. Nevertheless, those cases that we do have in yesterday's technical briefing are, in my opinion, a figure of 0.4% in the sequencing, suggest that this does not necessarily have a travel history and therefore that it is already on Dutch soil at the moment and can also circulate. Is it true that our vaccines do not protect or protect much less? We just don't know that well enough. However, there is an indication from a British study that after one shot there is a reduced protection of a number of percentage points. In any case, that should be an encouragement to always go for full protection and not too easily to think that one shot is actually a long way away, no matter how much I agree with what Mr Wilders said about it, namely that one shot is enough against hospitalization. At least the people who are still in hospitals didn't have the one shot, otherwise they wouldn't have been there. That's very good news, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u141	Is this the end of your sub-block quarantine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u142	Well, then, you're going to be very excited. Let's see... yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u143	Well, look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u144	Well, the most important one, I'd like to say. The most important, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u145	Last question for Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u146	Just a fact. Someone from India who arrives in England or France is put in a hotel and has to stay in isolation for a few days. In Germany, apart from the flight ban, they have quarantined with very high fines, which the Minister has told us about. A student arriving here can in fact be quarantined in a dorm with ten or twenty others. Or you could go to your own family. That's really something else, I just want to say. The Minister says: we follow the RIVM advice here. I did a good job of checking to see if that's true. The OMT writes that in the last few weeks 34 people with a travel history have come in from India. 24 times it was an infection with the Indian variant. That's what the OMT opinion says. A short time later, the OMT wrote: "The OMT notes that it is very important for public health to align such flight bans and measures on travel at European level and to prevent all countries from making their own policies, so that risks of introduction of infectious diseases are actually reduced for all countries." After all, by means of land transport, you can still end up in a country where a flight ban applies. If Belgium simply says 'an entry ban for India', if Germany has a flight ban, like a number of other countries, then how can it be that if the Chamber asks for this to be aligned with other countries, the cabinet says 'we lift all flight bans'? We checked with other countries, and they don't change anything. Germany is even tightening it up. Given the OMT advice, I can't get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u147	Just a few things, though. First of all, something about the representation of what has happened and what the OMT recommends. We now have the possibility of mandatory quarantine. That's what the OMT's been asking for a little longer. Now that we have that possibility of compulsory quarantine, does this mean equivalent protection against the introduction of exotic variants or even the introduction of the virus you do not want here? Yeah, says the OMT. That's the OMT recommendation. That's what my colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen wrote to the Chamber. Two. It is important to be clear about all the restrictions. It's not like we say, "Come in with your servant." No. When people get on a plane, they've done a PCR test first. Then they ran another antigen test. If they want to get on board, they will be checked to see if they have the negative test statement on them. It is then declared whether they carry the Q declaration, the quarantine certificate, which is where they are. Then they board the plane and land here. Then they're called and checked to see if they're at the address where they say they are. In short, we have by now simply established an enforceable quarantine obligation for travellers from very high-risk areas. So let's not pretend that the Netherlands is dealing with that relaxedly. I think it's unprecedented legislation that we couldn't have imagined a year and a half ago. We have it now. We worked hard on that. We want to use them proportionally, namely only for very high-risk areas. Would a flight ban be better? Well, no, it says OMT. That wouldn't be better. Of course, we have had discussions, as you also asked. On 27 May we had discussions in the Cross-Border Task Force Corona, together with the Belgian and German colleagues. Indeed, this consultation has not led to policy adjustment, but rather to the exchange of information on current and future measures. Belgium has not imposed any flight bans. Germany has a travel ban for countries that are classified as virus variant areas. Carriers are not allowed to transport persons from these countries to Germany unless they fall within one of the exceptions, e.g. German residents. Let's not pretend that no one comes in from India in Germany, because that's not true. An Indian with a German passport simply enters Germany from India, because he is a German resident. The same applies to partners and underage children. In short, I think that the picture that other countries are very strict and we are super soupy for both reasons is not true. Other countries are not much stricter than we are, and we are certainly not flexible towards very high-risk areas. Why does the cabinet think that one in three people will adhere to the urgent quarantine indication? The word "quarantine indication " is no other word than "quarantine advice." You have an enforceable quarantine obligation for high-risk areas. For high risk areas, with an incidence of between 150 and 500 per 100,000 over the past 14 days, quarantine advice is valid. Only, in order to prevent that quarantine advice from being perceived too relaxed, the OMT has chosen the word "indication." What we always want to set as a standard is that when the GGD says you need to quarantine and you need to sit on the couch with your ass, you need to sit on the couch with your ass. That's what the OMT meant by the word "quarantine indication." Why do we think everyone's gonna stick to it? Well, I honestly don't think so. We know that travellers do not respect that. This is also the reason why travellers who are expected to be at the highest risk, namely travellers from very high-risk areas, are subject to compulsory compulsory quarantine. That was the quarantine. Now for the other part of the journey. That's related to the digital corona certificate. I shall begin with Mrs van der Plas' questions. I'm glad she did. She said: isn't this something of an indirect vaccination obligation or at least a vaccination urge if it isn't a vaccination constraint, then perhaps it is a vaccination urge? I would like to emphasise that this is not the case. I do that every time that concern is expressed. I know that care lives. That concern is simply real. But it is not for nothing that the Chamber has adopted several motions on this subject, including a motion by Mr Wilders and a motion by Mr Segers. The cabinet also said from the beginning: no, there will be no vaccination obligation, no indirect one either, and there will not even be a duty to prove that you have been vaccinated; none of that. How do we shape that? We work with a QR code that you can also obtain in another way, namely after a negative test result and even after you have recovered from corona, so after a positive test result. It is precisely in every possible way that we try to enable people to meet the conditions that apply when travelling if travel restrictions were to apply in the future. Mrs van der Plas' follow-up question was: are we going to do that at all, even if things are going very much better? That question is quite right. The honest answer to that is that I cannot yet answer that question because the 27 Member States are still talking about it. The European Commission has now adopted the draft regulation. It starts on July 1st. It provides the legal basis for issuing and exchanging data on this type of corona certificate at all. But much more important is the question of what you can do with such a corona certificate and from what point in time Member States will ask for it when you enter a country. The European Commission's proposal now is that this should start from an incidence from 25 positive test results per 100,000 inhabitants over the past 14 days. I think that bar is way too low. Our OMT also says you can raise that bar a lot higher. But I also have to say that many of my colleagues are quite cautious at the moment. I'd think we'd just have to raise the bar a little bit. Maybe we shouldn't necessarily just link them to positive test results, my idea would be, but perhaps much more to the vaccination rate. Maybe that's a much more logical starting point. But I just haven't decided with the colleagues yet. Next week we will have a debate here on the commitment to the European Council, which will, among other things, deal with this issue. The final state of the negotiations I shall forward to you in advance of that debate. The European Council is on 15 June and we are expected to see this there. We want to reach a decision on this in mid-June. My commitment is indeed not to do so when the risk is very low, as Mrs Van der Plas says. If the risk is very low, please let us not get into those complicated areas, because that will be seen as limiting for travellers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u148	Would you like to complete the journey?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u149	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u150	And then I give Mrs Van der Plas the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u151	That's good. A corona vaccination certificate is issued for two shots, or for one shot if you've had an infection. An alternative is a negative test declaration. If we start working with that DCC later, those who have not had full vaccination can also cross the border on the basis of a negative test result. The last word has not yet been spoken on this issue either. The commitment of the Netherlands is to do this only from 13 years old. The commitment of many European colleagues is to do so from 6 years on and from a single European colleague even from 2 years on. I am also trying to achieve as much harmonisation as possible. To be honest, I think that our choice to work with it from 13 years of age makes a lot of sense. I'm gonna try to convince colleagues of that. What about travelling outside the EU, Mrs De Vries and Mr DENK ask. Those agreements will really have to be made. I think it makes sense that we make these agreements in the same way. We will do this in the order of first the agreements within Europe and then outside Europe. The orientation talks are already under way, including the acceptance of each other's vaccination certificates, under the same conditions. Mrs De Vries says that the current vaccination certificates in Germany are not valid. That is true, and that has to do with the language, but we already have the solution. In any case, we advocate to the Germans to accept Dutch as a language. We are now accepting German, English, French, Spanish and Italian, and for incomprehensible reasons we are not accepting Frisian, for example, which I cannot properly place, so we are making a serious plea for this. But it can also be solved by printing an English version of the registration on My RIVM.nl. Anyone can do that themselves, and then you'll get there. From July 1st it is solved anyway, because with the DCC you can also demonstrate this digitally. Volt asks about the state of play at the travel pass. The offer would be to have a good technical briefing on this next week, prior to the debate on the European Council. Then the Chamber is really aware of the very latest state of affairs, in technology, but certainly also of all those principles which I still have to agree with colleagues. There are still quite a lot of variables in that, but we're trying to reduce that number. Next week we can outline the state of play of the European debate on this issue. Then Mr Kuzu's question when you are exempt from PCR for travel. If you are fully vaccinated and in your app you can show that QR code, you are hereby exempted. If you can't do that because you haven't had the second shot yet, then you can show a negative test result. What we also want to make possible is a proof of recovery, so that you can translate a positive test result into a QR code in the same app. Based on those three types of evidence, it should be able to work. It's important that whoever controls you at the entrance can't see why you can get that green tick. With that, I can also comply with the agreement I made with the Chamber, that I will ensure that we never get into the situation that you are required to prove that you have been vaccinated. I think that's very important. Again, we want to exempt children from that. I don't just want PCR, I want antigen to be possible. However, we are not yet there, because I find that colleagues in Europe are somewhat stricter than the Netherlands and our own OMT at the moment. Then make it possible for free, D66's motion. GroenLinks asks about the state of play of the D66 motion. Speaking of a nice piece of left-wing collaboration towards the people, wonderful! What have we done? We sent the letter. Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen sent it this morning. In that we have met a motion by Mr Sjoerdsma and we have a commitment that I have already given... Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I will never speak of left-wing cooperation again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u152	"Left cooperation," that's a lot to say. I think Mr Paternotte feels called upon to say something about that. A point of order, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u153	Oh! I didn't know it was a painful point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u154	I just notice that the minister then says "How nice, D66 and VVD, look, the liberals," and then "D66 and GroenLinks, look, left-wing collaboration."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u155	Yeah, next thing you know, you're gonna be in a booth. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u156	I think the Minister should simply tighten up the conceptual framework with regard to D66. Then I know every debate I can expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u157	I find it most confusing, too, but maybe you can make a memo. Then I'll make sure I memorize it for the next time. Well, about the travelers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u158	Yeah, finally, I guess, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u159	Many people will be fully vaccinated, but there will also be many people who have not yet been fully vaccinated. If it is true that many countries are going to work with such a DCC, then of course we need to be able to spend that DCC. For those who are not fully vaccinated and therefore need to take a test to obtain a DCC, we are quite willing to act in accordance with the wishes of the majority of the Chamber. However, we felt that we should draw the attention of the Chamber to the risks involved before we actually organise them. And that is in the letter you received today from Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen, and from myself, by the way. In it we outline how we could organise that. This could be done, for example, through the tests already arranged in the travel industry or by using the test capacity built up to test for access. For example, if that should not be enough, this can also be requested from the GGD. But that happens in the third instance, because I really think that the GGD has something else to do at this stage of the crisis response, namely to vaccinate. Anyway, if the GGD can help and in some regions they say 'well, it might be possible', then of course I think it is very nice. The warning, which is also contained in this letter, is: don't think that there are no legal issues here. Mr Sjoerdsma's motion was adopted on the day on which the Court's report also came. When I saw that motion, I immediately thought: yes, fine, but the Chamber will certainly not think that this can be done without unlawfulness. You do not have time for a tender procedure, and that makes it virtually always illegal. It could be regarded as a form of state aid, which makes it virtually always unlawful. In short, there are many legitimacy issues that we can only'mitify', as it is called in proper policy language, but we certainly cannot prevent them in every respect. So before we actually do it, we do like to hear from the Chamber: this is indeed our intention; we know that it cannot be entirely legitimate. Because before you know it, next year we will have the same debate as the one we just had in the Prime Minister's first term, and you shouldn't want that. So, is the Chamber quite sure? Then we're gonna do it, but we're gonna do it with all the risks that go with it. I think that was the block of travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u160	Mrs van der Plas van BBB, then Mr Kuzu van DENK, then Mrs De Vries van de VVD and then Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u161	I actually want some clarity, for myself, so that I can get my head straight, and perhaps also for the people at home. So it's not like we should have a vaccination passport with us if we're going on vacation now. So that's all gonna be decided later. If I understand correctly from the Minister, the Netherlands wants to raise this bar a little higher than other countries. But now we can just travel free? That is actually the first short question where, I think, only a 'yes' or 'no' has to be answered for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u162	I wish it was one of those parties. No, you can travel to yellow countries. Then what you have to do is just keep to the requirements of the yellow countries. Often you only come in there with a negative test. Especially since the Netherlands is not the very best boy in the European class, it is not always the case that other countries want us. Sometimes we don't even get in. So what we say is: if a country is yellow, then you can go there from us, but first take a look at kijsopreis.nl, because there are all these travel advices. Tightly, once the epidemiological situation has improved in Europe, I expect many more countries to be yellow. In addition, we have made it technically possible, and also legally, that we can ask for such a DCC, such a Digital Corona Certificate. So I expect that certainly for an x-number of countries such a Digital Corona Certificate will be required. We can spend it as the Netherlands, so people who need it to travel, we can help them. What I am working on is as many harmonised agreements as possible in Europe, because I think it is ridiculous that every country should try to organise them for 'its own'. But I also note that a number of countries are very strict; Germany, for example, is very strict on this point. And yes, I do not know whether we should do exactly what Germany wants with the whole of Europe. Perhaps we should talk about this a little longer; perhaps we could make a number of other agreements with a number of countries. So, in principle, I am working on as many harmonised policies as possible, but I do not rule out the fact that there are going to be different rules for different countries if some of the Member States in Europe are very strict, so we would all be stuck with those very strict rules. For imagine that the level of contamination is very low in Europe... Well, then I think it's quite a hassle to keep such a whole system in the air, where you don't necessarily need it for the purpose for which you use it, namely: keep that virus underneath. It's not quite yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u163	No, but I understood you. That's also sometimes different, so I'm sitting here listening and thinking: now I'm completely lost. But you have explained this neatly clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u164	Thank you. That's the second compliment today, isn't it, from Mrs. Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u165	Yeah, I might have something to make up for once in a while. The second question was about the QR code. Because the minister said that it doesn't have to be through that app, it can also be through another QR code. But I didn't understand that for a while, because exactly what happened? Does my mother, 82 years old, have to show a QR code with such an expensive smartphone or not show QR code, or in any other way? And also all other older people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u166	You can come to a QR code in different ways. That's all through the same app, the CoronaCheck app, that we developed. And all Member States have developed a similar app. That approach is basically a whole end in hand. There are still some final things to be done, but it's actually already being used for access tests. So imagine if you go to an event on Saturday that is subject to an access test, you can actually use that app now. But it will also apply to the loading of vaccination certificates; not yet, but later. It's gonna work from the end of the month. And wherever you can get that QR code produced by that app based on a negative test result, you can have that QR code produced on the basis of the vaccination certificate. And, whatever we can make possible: based on a previous infection, so a recovery certificate. We are not yet technically able to do that, but at the end of the month we hope to be a long way off. And we will be briefing you on that next week's amendment, including what the exact timing is for when we want all these things ready. But the intention is that you could get a QR code in three ways from 1 July, so actually that green check mark in that app, namely via negative test results already possible, for access tests by means of a vaccination certificate that will be possible from 1 July, because we need the European regulation to do so and by means of an immunity certificate. All three reasons can produce that green check mark in that app.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u167	Thank you. This is your last question, Mrs Van der Plas. Maybe you'd like to keep it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u168	Maybe I'll do that bilaterally. I'll wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u169	Yes, thank you. Then Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u170	A clear laugh... uh, explanation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u171	There's always time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u172	"Laughter"... what a word. But the Minister has indicated that he is already talking to his European colleagues about accepting each other's certificates, travel certificates, etc. Can the Minister also indicate when he expects him to have more clarity about this? That's one. The second is: I had also asked a question about the creation of those color codes. Because a lot of people are currently making plans for a summer vacation. It's the beginning of June now. It'll be here in a month. People also need clarity about when they can do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u173	Next Wednesday we will have a debate on the commitment of the Netherlands to the 15th European Council. That's a board of health ministers. That is where we want to drop the hammer on how we are going to do it as harmonised as possible. That is the commitment, so I indicated it to Mrs van der Plas, but I am not sure whether we are going to get there. If we cannot achieve this harmonised commitment, I do not entirely rule out the fact that we are going to make bilateral agreements with some of the countries, for example because some of my colleagues are being too strict about using the DCC per se, even if the epidemiological situation is much calmer than it is now. So that's one thing. Next week we would like to inform you about the latest state of the negotiations. We will therefore inform you about the entire technical state of development of that DCC, because that is a huge project, divided over several departments. Foreign Affairs, for example, is there for the passenger help desk and passenger information. The Minister of IenW will, of course, be drawing up the test for travellers, and we will also have to make the arrangements with the carriers. The Minister of JenV makes the agreements on enforcement. So it's a very big project. Next week we will fully inform you about the latest state of affairs and about the timelines of when what is done. So we will try to get that across next week as best we can so that we can have a good debate on it in the afternoon. Then there's the color codes. Those color codes have actually been based on the ECDC principles for some time. The following colours apply at the moment. Yellow is for countries with fewer than 150 positive test results per 100,000 test results over the past 14 days. Orange, a high risk, applies to countries that have 150 to 500 positive test results per 100,000 test results over the past 14 days. There is a very high risk with more than 500 positive test results per 100,000 test results over the past 14 days, or a variant or group according to the WHO list, or little monitoring and sequencing, so you really don't know at all. Then there is insufficient information. That very high risk determines RIVM. RIVM advises us on this. RIVM then bases itself on the ECDC list and the WHO list. So every Monday we get advice from RIVM. The State Department accordingly adapts its travel advice. I have just explained to Mrs van der Plas that where I see that colleagues are still sticking very much to those incidence rates as a parameter for why you should or should not want to use that DCC, my commitment is that I would much rather do so on the basis of the vaccination rate, because I think it would be much more rational. Because those incidence rates are also strongly influenced by the test policy you have. These incidence rates are now much less important for the anticipated hospitalisations that result, because we are now so far away from vaccination. In short, I would find it more rational at this stage to use the vaccination rate. But I also notice that I do not have all the Members of the European Parliament, not to say very few Members of the European Parliament. So that's gonna take some persuasion and probably some time before we get there. Until then, we're using incidence rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u174	I am pleased to announce that the Minister and I are in complete agreement on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u175	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u176	That was meant to be a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u177	Okay, that'll take some getting used to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u178	That's today's third compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u179	I'm peating them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u180	It happens sometimes. I have the next follow-up question. The Minister indicated that the priorities were first within the European Union and that he would look further at countries outside the European Union. I would ask him to call on the Health Council next Wednesday, perhaps with similar countries, to pay particular attention to the top destinations of many people who live in the Netherlands, live in Germany and want to go on holiday to Morocco or Turkey. I ask him to take that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u181	I understand that very well. My assumption would be that this type of contact is already there at the level of the Commission, but I will inform you about these contacts next week. Well, at least we haven't made an appointment yet, I know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u182	Thank you for a practical, English translation of the vaccination certificate. I hope that this can be done in the short term via MijnRIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u183	In fact, if you were to log in now and if you were fully vaccinated, you could even do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u184	Oh, my gosh. It's beautiful. I think a lot of people are happy about that. As a result, the second point. Of course, we also determine color codes, but we go there in terms of. Take the vaccination rate with you, aside from what other countries are going to do? Certainly border traffic with Belgium and Germany is very crucial for many parts of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u185	Sure. What I would be inclined to do is as much European harmonisation as possible, unless it bothers us without a good epidemiological reason. Then we'll have to do something else. So I'm gonna start by trying to get all my colleagues on this track. If that really does not work, we will have to come up with an alternative. The more harmonised, the easier it is for our travel industry. I have had a number of conversations, together with colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen. Of course, she speaks much more often with the carriers. If there's one thing they're really asking us, it's this: "We don't really care how you want to do it, but please do it all the same, because at least we know where we stand." Something else is really impossible for the travel industry, but also for the transporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u186	Now, let's test and trace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u187	Then we will indeed continue testing and tracing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u188	Maybe it's good to do that a little bit more compact, because we talked a little bit about testing policy a while ago. There is a question first from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u189	I had applied for a while, because the "travel" block would have been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u190	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u191	I regret that I now have to interrupt for the second time because a question from me has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u192	Oh, dear, no compliment from Mrs. Van den Berg today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u193	I had asked a specific question about Fronleichnam, or Sacramentsdag, in Germany. So there are now a lot of bookings canceled by Germans here in the Netherlands, while in Germany the infections are very low.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u194	I think we can remember that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u195	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u196	Mrs Van den Berg is right about that. Maybe that question belongs to "varia."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u197	You shouldn't completely rule it out, of course; it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u198	Nothing to the detriment of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u199	The question could be with "varia." I'm gonna look in my set... No, he wasn't. He was just traveling. Yes, it is true that the travel advice for Germany is currently orange. And yes, things are going better there than in the Netherlands. Sure. But it is still a high risk country in the ECDC parameters. The Netherlands is currently of course a higher risk country than Germany, but the RIVM uses the ECDC figures for the risk classification. They are updated weekly. Given the rapidly improving situation in Germany, it is expected that this will soon be reflected in the ECDC data, but at present this is not the case. If an orange travel advice applies to countries, the advice is to go there only if it is necessary. When travellers travel from Germany to the Netherlands, these travellers must have a negative test and are advised to go into quarantine as a matter of urgency. This is not a question of a duty, but of an opinion. That is why we wanted to deal with this duty as proportionately as possible, because otherwise, indeed, at the moment, Germans in the Netherlands would have been subject to mandatory quarantine. There's no need for that, of course. So there is advice, and there is a negative test when Germans come to the Netherlands. There is also a lot of things when Dutch people go to Germany. Now it's still orange, but it's likely to turn yellow soon. But when that's gonna be exact, I don't know. That is what we are doing on the basis of the ECDC figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u200	Sacraments Day is this weekend. So the timeline is extremely important. This applies, of course, to all border traffic and all tourist traffic. This applies not only to the coast, but also to other places where Germans go. I see on our Dutch coronadashboard that Germany would be at 33.8 infections per 100,000 people, at least all in yellow according to the table I have here. One cannot say: I have had a vaccination, I can prove that, so that should be sufficient. So we have to do the expensive PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u201	It is not impossible to travel, but Mrs Van den Berg will also understand that I cannot make an exception for an individual event on a weekend to the way in which the travel advice is drawn up. The ECDC is the base. RIVM advises on the basis of the codes that apply there. I do expect the situation to improve considerably. This situation has already improved considerably in Germany. So we also expect the travel advice to change in the near future. But when it is, I really don't know. And I'm not going to deliberately send for that with a view to an individual event. We should not do that, because then we will really make a mess of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u202	That is actually what the second part of my question was about. You say, ECDC only. Of course you can. But let's say the vaccination rate is hugely high, in Germany and in Belgium. If the Minister says that he thinks that we should take this into account in Europe, is it logical that we should take this into account in our individual assessment of the colour of a country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u203	Sure. Just, you do that for the weekend, because it's a good time for Sacrament's Day? No, not that. But are we going to do that in the coming period? Yes, please, because I believe that those incidence rates based on positive test results have had their effect as the protection through vaccination increases, especially because the incidence rates are strongly coloured by the test policy used. Let me give you an example: about a quarter of the positive test results for the last week have someone who has received a positive test result, for example by accompanying self-tests at a school, or after an entry test. He'll have to go to the G.D.D. for a confirmation test. That's where a large part of the current positive test results come from. Because every country that has just organized a little differently, these positive test results, that is, those incidence rates, are simply coloured by the policy. It shouldn't be. So you're gonna have to get off that in the long run, and you're gonna have to get to a vaccination rate. The point is that this is not the case at the moment. We also want to work for our travel industry and our carriers with a harmonised system as much as possible. I'm gonna try to convince the colleagues. Suppose it doesn't succeed in convincing all colleagues, then we'll have to go to a second, or switch over at a later date. But in the end, I want to go to another type of system. Only I can't dictate that to ECDC. But for now, we're following ECDC.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u204	I don't really understand why you couldn't do that. If there's a good reason not to, I'd understand. But now to say: then it becomes a mess... Why couldn't you just put it on yellow? I understand that the German authorities have also been in contact with Foreign Affairs. I'd say, what difference does it make?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u205	I wouldn't be okay with that myself. We have agreed policies, after we have thought for quite some time about how we can do the very best and how we can do it as harmonised as possible in Europe. Based on information from the ECDC, we look at the degree of infection in a country. Then we come to policies based on these colour codes. That's how we got to that 150 per 100,000 over the past 14 days and that's how we got to the 500 per 100,000 over the past 14 days. This makes it understandable for all those companies that work internationally and for all transport companies and companies in the travel industry. That is so clear! That's so explainable. If I would say, for the sake of an event, "Well, you know. Then I'm gonna take a corner of figurative saws from the rules," then I think that's kind of crazy. My assumption is that Germany will soon jump on yellow. That would be my assumption, but I'm not gonna figure out the rules for an event. I think that's a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u206	Excuse me. You don't have any more questions, but you still have a second term. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u207	Then I'll go to the access tests. Mrs van der Berg refers to the PZC and I have read that piece myself, because if there is a piece in the PZC, I always jump in the posture immediately. We Zeeuws have that, of course! In that I read that it was not completely settled and that is what we went after. At least that has led me to expect that in Zeeland it will be okay with four locations. That's also necessary, because it can't be that as an entrepreneur or as a customer you would be deprived of the possibility of access tests for an event or a visit to a cinema or a theatre, because you live in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. That is how it was discussed in the debate. In short, it is going pretty well with that coverage level and so it has to be much better. Next Saturday, when step 3 of the open plan is taken, we can also start the access tests before the end of the day. The tender of those test providers ended up with eleven, seven in the first and four in the second round. Those providers should have national coverage across seven rural regions. With those first seven parties we have a coverage rate of about 77% of the Netherlands at 20 minutes travel time and 96% of the Netherlands at 30 minutes travel time. Of the second group of four test providers, a realization of these test locations will be completed for next Saturday. The coverage rate then rises to 89% within 20 minutes and 99% within 30 minutes. A point of interest here is that not only the test site needs to be realized, but also a connection to the CoronaCheck app needs to be realized. This allows us to say goodbye to the paper test results without a QR-code, which still had to be used in the pilot phase. That connection must be secure and careful. That is what we discussed in the last debate. From the first test providers, the picture is that they will be connected to that CoronaCheck app in time. The final test runs will take place today. The second round test providers are not expected to be connected to the CoronaCheck app by Saturday. This means that a number of test locations will not be able to immediately live on Saturday, including unfortunately also the test locations in Zeeland. But the expectation is that they will be connected to the CoronaCheck app in the course of next week and can live with it. Until then, the people in Zeeland have to go to a provider a little further away, or they need to have a few more days of patience until you can test in Zeeland yourself. There are no events, major events or activities with access tests planned in Zeeland as far as I am known for this weekend. So that should not be the biggest problem and we will make it up to you very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u208	On the one hand, I am very pleased with the Minister's answer that there will be four test sites and that 99% of the people will be able to reach a test site within half an hour. But I would like to correct the image of Zeeuwen, because the Minister says: there are no major events in Zeeland. Like Zeeuws don't go out of their province! You just want to be able to test yourself in your own province and then, for example, to an event in Rotterdam or Amsterdam or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u209	Sure. Rotterdam and the Zeeuwen belong together, that's right. I know exactly what you mean. We are working very hard to arrange it for the Zeeuws as soon as possible. Then the GGD test sites for the second half of the year. Aren't they being scaled down too much now? That was a bit of Mrs Van den Berg's concern. At the moment, the agreement is that GGDs are expected to remain ready for 100,000 tests a day. If anything is scaled down, they must be able to scale up very quickly. But in the plan of approach for the transition to the endemic phase, I want to rationalise how much test capacity you need and how you need to set it up. After all, you want to continue monitoring, for example to what extent that Indian variant is spreading. Even if many fewer people have complaints, you want to keep that monitoring up in a good way. By the way, you want people to keep testing themselves for complaints anyway. We will come back to what testing capacity we are asking for to be set up in the regions. Then the SP had a question. We didn't do those tests for access via the GGD, but tests for vacation are now possible. One of the options is indeed that the GGD is cooperating in this. I don't expect all GDs to do that. More logical and obvious is to at least use the test capacity for the travel industry, which is organized by the travel industry, and to see if you can also use tests for access. If a single GGD would like to contribute to this: of course we ask whether they want to help also to the GGDs. When testing for access we have indeed said: the primary task of the GGD is really infection control, so let's not ask them to do the testing for access.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u210	Thank you. Mr Kwint, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u211	My question was another one. During the debate on the test law, we did indeed propose that this should be transferred to the Health Service. Why would you test it, which also has a public health component, even an important public health component, with a foundation with all kinds of commercial sub-providers? One of the arguments put forward by the Minister at the time was: the GGDs need all their capacity to monitor the virological situation, let me put it this way. Then I find it very strange that two weeks after that debate in the newspaper we read that the GGD's are closing down locations because they are too quiet and that the Minister is now saying: we are going to reduce capacity further, because we are coming at another stage of the pandemic, from pandemic to endemic. Wouldn't it have been better to spend that billion on keeping the available capacity of the GGDs open a little longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u212	Let's talk about the billion. So that's not a billion. Did I mention that before? So that billion isn't a billion. I believe that I have said this about 34 times, but perhaps it would be nice if you would repeat that billion as well. That's one. Two is: we're just going to settle on the basis of the actual costs incurred. Three is: when we started designing tests for access, we did indeed choose not to burden the GGD with testing for access as well. That has a very conscious background. The GGD is mainly for the control of infectious disease and for the vaccination and testing of complaints, i.e. for testing in the context of the control of infectious disease. So that's not testing for access. What we do, of course, do is make sure that the two are connected together. We have therefore deliberately not yet assigned this task to the GDD. Then the question of how to set up the test capacity for the fall. For Q3 and Q4 the appointment has been made with the GGD that they are ready for 100,000 a day, so they can. We are going to look again, as part of the approach plan, how much that test capacity really needs to be. I can't really tell you that right now. We really need to put that question to the OMT: what does the OMT actually expect to be monitored for the third and fourth quarters? It could therefore be possible for the GGD to scale further. It could also be that we say: make sure you remain scalable to a decent test capacity. I'm not gonna answer that question right now. We're gonna answer that once we've been advised on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u213	My point is not whether or not the GGD should be scaling down. I can't estimate that at all from here. It's not my call, and I don't want to talk about it at all. My point is that if a few weeks ago when the SP proposal, namely to place the testing for access at the GGD's, is cited as an argument, I find it difficult to sell it when I hear a few weeks later that the GGD's are going to scale down locations because they have too little to do. Mrs Van den Berg had just been stomped out of the ground by commercial testing streets throughout the Netherlands in order to make it possible to test for access, while in all those places there is already a test street, one of the GGD. Then a very illogical choice has been made, to put money into building one network, how much it's going to cost, do we know how much it's going to cost, and then to scale down the other network, which is your own, which is the GGD's and those are all of us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u214	Well, I don't think so. Of course, we had that debate at the time. The GGDs had a capacity of 175.000 tests per day in Q1 and Q2. Of course, they never got that capacity. It's always been below 100,000, so it can't be a surprise that there's space there compared to the maximum capacity. In Q3 and Q4 100,000 tests per day must be the potential of the GGDs. At least that's the deal now, and we're gonna see if we can lower that. Your question is why you are going to ask someone other than the GGDs to organise tests for access. Of course, that also has to do with what question you really want to ask the GGD. If you ask that same GGD not only to organise the testing in a good way, but also to organise the source and contact research in a good way and to scale the vaccination capacity in each region up to a total national sum of over 1.5 million per week, then it is illogical to ask them, wherever else you can organize it, to do the testing for access? I don't think that's a logical question at all. There is no GGD that wants that, by the way, so I honestly do not understand very well where the question comes from. Then the question of the PvdA, namely whether we will be able to kick out fires after the summer, where they start again. Yes. My answer was that we want to keep that test capacity for after the summer. The question is how much and how exactly we should organise this, but of course we want to keep testing capacity to be able to monitor permanently, even in the third and fourth quarters. I think that's still necessary. That's one. Two is: yes, source and contact research remains necessary. It's really astronomical numbers of source and contact research that the GGD could organize per day, so that doesn't have to be the big problem. But there too, of course, is the question of how much you want to love it, because there are a lot of hired staff. What every GGD is experiencing at the moment, both in test streets and in source and contact research, is that where you could get a lot of people from all the branches that were closed, who are now going back to serve on the terrace for example. Some of the students are going that way again, which is fine by the way. So you'll see that kind of movement, too. It makes it a little more difficult to provide for the personalities in the coming period, because fortunately many sectors can open up again. But also for source and contact research the GGD will just have to be ready. In the plan of action, I will outline how we will achieve a good capacity estimate. I do not know whether that capacity estimate will be completed, but at least how we will achieve a good capacity estimate for that purpose. Then high school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u215	There is another question from Mrs Westerveld, on the previous point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u216	Yeah, I have a question about the G.D.D.s. I referred in my contribution to various motions that have not been carried out. One of these is the motion of my predecessor, Mr Renkema, from March 2020. In that motion, he asked for an independent external investigation to be carried out into the capacity of the GGDs and to share the results with the Chamber before 1 September 2020. That's not done. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not wise to do so, because it may just happen that there will be a new mutant in this country. Then we will also have to ensure that the health services can continue to do their job. And then it might be good to know a little better what the GGD's can handle and what they can't. Of course, we have also had a wide-ranging debate on testing policy. It was also about the GD's. Why can't they mean something more, even when testing? So, actually, my question is: is the Minister prepared to have the capacity of the various GGDs listed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u217	The GGDs mean something when testing, I can say to reassure you. I believe they took over 10 million tests, and there were over 1 million positive test results, and therefore over 1 million BCOs. In short, most of the tests are of course just done by the GGD in the past period, and they will continue to be so in the coming period. At the moment, a letter of commission is being finalised in a response to the initiative paper of members Van Gerven and Hijink on "Investing now in the GGD." You remember that initiative paper. With that letter of commission, therefore, I, myself, am very much in response to Mr Renkema's motion of 5 March 2020, as well as to Mr Ploumen's and Mr Renkema's motion of 3 December 2020. I expect that letter of commission to be sent to the Chamber by the end of June. In addition, there is a whole process with the GGD's about governance. And I expect that in the evaluation the role of the GGDs, the direction of the GGDs and that direction in a crisis situation will also be very specific subjects. Because you shouldn't want to organise the whole GGD structure in the middle of a crisis, but at the same time there are good reasons to want to weigh that again. How do you even want to be organized? So with all the gratitude we have, I think, in the direction of the GGDs, we see, I think, some improvement points in the direction. They're seen by the G.D.D.'s themselves. And we would very much like to catch those improvements, but after the crisis. But very much so, and we shall come back to that. That brings me to Mr Kwint's question. All the schools have been delivered. I understand that a number of schools experienced a delayed delivery during the May holidays, but that delay has now been fully overtaken. High schools are making full use of these self-tests. In some schools the tests could not be delivered because because of the holiday no one was present at the school to receive the tests. I understand that's the background. It would involve 22 schools of the approximately 8,000 schools that have been delivered. Well, that's impressive, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u218	Let me be clear: secondary education has only been open since last Monday more than it was. It seems to me that the May holiday has proved to be an obstacle there. When it comes to primary education, 22 is indeed a low number; that is true. But it is strange that it is still not arranged three or four weeks after the end of the May holiday. So I don't get this answer very well. As far as I am concerned, it can also be explained further in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u219	Well, that's what I'm saying. I'm going to double-check this for the second term. However, there was a delay in the delivery of tests to primary schools prior to the May holiday due to delayed delivery. That delay has been completely overtaken. In the secondary schools all tests are delivered according to schedule prior to the further opening early this week. In some schools the tests could not be delivered because no one was present to receive the tests. We've got these schools in sight. These are 22 schools of the approximately 8,000 schools that have been delivered. And given the number of 8,000, my conclusion would be: that's p.o. and vo added. If schools want more tests, they can order additional tests via an application module. So far 335 primary schools have done so, and they have been given those tests. I think this is a pretty brilliant answer, but I'm gonna double-check it. Then the Member Van Haga, who awaits his commitment to the reliability of rapid tests. That's what I did in the stand-of-business letter of May 11th. Mrs Van den Berg asks about the monitoring of sewage water, whether it has now been reduced in such a way that new infections can be predicted. At least it's so absorbed that you can see a little earlier than you can see the wave happening in the test streets, in the sewer water surveillance, how much virus is present in a particular region. Actually, it can be seen up to the municipality level. In addition, sewer water surveillance is being used, and will be used in the future, to capture and monitor many more people's diseases, and to properly identify their prevalence among the population. It is always the art of linking what you see, for example, to virus particles in the sewer water to contamination rates. That's got to be calibrated properly. In the next letter I will come back to the question of how we will calibrate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u220	I was confused for a second. We had a WHO, and then we talked about these quick tests. I've been discussing a study by the LUMC on Abbott's rapid test. That involved people who had both complaints and a positive PCR test. 40% was not detected by the rapid test. Now the Minister says: I have already answered that in the stand-of-business letter of 11 May. No, after that, he said, "You'll get it." So my question is: where is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u221	In that letter of 11 May, I pointed out to Mr Van Haga the websites of the RIVM and of the European Commission, where he could find information available to the public on the reliability of rapid tests. These are data that change periodically and are updated. There are all kinds of scientific treatises on the reliability of rapid tests. Everything's as findable as it gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u222	This is actually a hilarious answer. Everything is on the RIVM website and if it's not on it, it's on the Internet somewhere. But I am concerned that this study showed that these rapid tests showed incredibly many false negatives. It was about this investigation and then the Minister promised me: no, it's really 80% and I'm going to prove it. I looked in yesterday's last stand-of-business letter or something. According to a KPMG report, 76% of the visitors are persuaded to be tested, which 87% want a test when they go to the theater. If they are put under a little pressure to be allowed to exercise, it's another 77%. But I'm interested in this investigation. That 80% has been promised by the Minister in a WHO. That it's on the Internet somewhere, I'm okay with it, but the Minister would let me do something, and he didn't do it. I wonder again when this is gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u223	I did, and I referred to websites. Guys, I don't have to teach Mr. Van Haga to google, do I? That's bullshit. All these results are completely public, completely transparent. There's no cover-up or anything. We can just ask people to look for themselves if they're interested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u224	Then I simply conclude that this study of the LUMC, which was a normal study, was tested in a hospital with people who actually had corona showed that the tests showed a false negative image in 40% of the cases. The fact that there is something else on the Internet is on the Minister's account, but I find it extremely careless that we are being maneuvered into a test society with tests that are proven to be 40% false negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u225	Thank you. So that conclusion is not correct, if only because a test society is not at all relevant. But we've had that conversation several times. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll go to the block of varia. The Westerveld/Simons motion asked for agreements with municipalities on the reception of non-righteous homeless people, so that they can be received after 1 June. Emergency shelter was a lockdown crisis measure. This shelter was intended for people who are normally not entitled to care under the Wmo. Now that the lockdown is over, the Secretary of State has asked municipalities to carefully reduce the emergency care, with everyone talking about the follow-up steps after the shelter. Mrs Westerveld indicated that in her motion, together with Mrs Simons, she asked the government to make arrangements with municipalities to take care of non-righteous homeless people even after 1 June. That is not how we read the motion. The motion does not call for the actual reception of these people, but for the support of municipalities in guiding these people to work. I have supported municipalities here in various ways, as can be seen in the latest stand-of-business letter "For example, by linking reception institutions to EURES, an implementation organisation of UWV which provides for mediation specifically for migrant workers. I therefore believe that what is being asked for in this motion has been implemented. Then it's about family care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u226	There is another question from Mrs Westerveld about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u227	The Minister is now maintaining a very minimal interpretation of the motion. Moreover, I have, of course, spoken with several aldermen recently. I asked them what then happened to help them helping people who are temporarily in emergency care. They therefore indicate that the cabinet hardly supports them. So the Minister says that the motion has been carried out, but I hear from aldermen and municipalities that the motion has not been carried out, or at least that they are not being helped. What's worse is, there's just people on the street. Perhaps this is not the debate now to talk very extensively about how we should be very ashamed of the fact that so many extra homeless people have been added, but that is, of course, at the heart of the problem. These people need help. That's what that motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u228	I think it takes a little too far to have that debate at all. What was important in the context of emergency support was whether we could also allow shelter during the lockdown for non-right holders, i.e. no right holders at Wmo shelter. We did. That support has been phased out. This motion does not call for this support to continue, but rather for additional support for municipalities to accompany non-righteous people to work. We did. If another debate is needed on whether it is going well enough to guide homeless people to, for example, work or shelter, then I think that is really outside the scope of this corona debate and also a debate with the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Mrs. Den Haan asked about the carers. She said: it is very important that respite care is properly arranged; how are the pilots staying care? Both the first round of ten pilots and the second round of three pilots has been successfully completed. The chairman was the spiritual mother of this, together with Mrs Hermans. The pilots show that this prevents the caregiver from being overloaded. This requires good communication at local level. Municipalities make financial arrangements with health insurance companies. In order to make these financial arrangements easier, we have drafted the Domain-Overcoming Co-operation Bill. On this basis, investments from the Wlz can be made under conditions. That is going to help to get these types of pilots financed in a structural way, because that is still an issue. Then there's the patronage bonus. Cartel care is of course fantastic. I think that's what we're leaning on as a whole society. It's the Week of the Young Carers. I spoke to a number of young carers this week. It is fascinating that they do beautiful work, but that they always have the dilemma that they want to, but that it is also very difficult. They say: of course I do, because it's just my brother, but it's also very heavy. It is not easy to put that into words. That's why there's the support campaign Share your concern. That campaign shows that it is important to simply express that concern and to ask for help yourself if you need it, because it can just be very hard. By the way, many carers do not know at all that they are carers. They're just helping their mother or their brother or sister. Of course, they deserve all the support that is possible and all the respite. I'll bet on that. I think that we should do everything that can help to achieve sustainable support for carers. With a care bonus I only provide something very complicated in the execution, which also does not necessarily meet what is really needed. I want to offer all possible forms of help and support, but a bonus does not seem to me to be the most obvious part of that support package. If it is still appropriate to deal with the bill closing locations, Mrs Bikker and Mr Van der Staaij asked. Work is currently under way on the note on the report. I expect to be able to send it to your room next week. You are not the only one who has asked critical questions about this, so I tell you. But I do have to deal with a bill that was made to order. It was the order from the Chamber to come up with a bill that would also allow us to close locations. This is a bill that allows you to close down locations. But in my view, you mean to say that there is a certain anachronism beginning with the current state of the economy. I don't think it's up to the cabinet to withdraw a bill that you yourself ordered from the majority of the Chamber. But the Chamber is not in a position to deal with a legislative proposal or to say: we should not do that. The initiative for the further follow-up is really in your Chamber for a moment. I think this is neat, because otherwise, during the process of drafting a bill, I suddenly withdraw something that the Chamber had just ordered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u229	If I listen carefully to the Minister, it is not his main priority at the moment either, given the developments in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u230	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u231	I am also listening very carefully to the fact that as far as the cabinet is concerned, it is not necessary at the moment to have that bill further prepared. Because the Chamber in front of the abattoirs at the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u232	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u233	... in a very sensible motion I think has said that something should be done about this and the Council of State has said "extend the bill," it is still on the list. But as far as priority is concerned, it's very low. I am thinking, for a moment, of the second term of office, whether it should follow a ruling or whether it should proceed later in proceedings. I think it is such a waste of capacity, including for officials who are working on an answer, if we all say: it doesn't really matter now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u234	That is also something for the procedural meeting, let me just say when it comes to the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u235	I wanted to say: it's a bit of a special figure if we're going to freestyle about that now. We need to make a note of the report. As a result, your Chamber can draw up the mind. I think this is neat in procedure, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u236	I'm new here and I'm just looking for a decent solution. I don't want to freestyle to make it cozy, but just look for a decent solution to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u237	This was a free advice for a neat solution. Of course, you're all about it, all by yourself. Then the question from the CDA about the VAT on fruit and vegetables. Others, including Mrs Van Esch, asked for this. In a consultation on the Diertens initiative note, Secretary of State Blokhuis has agreed to present variants that could make a healthy choice easier from the idea that steering with prices can be quite effective. It's not all-defining, but it can be quite effective. The intention is to inform the Chamber about this before the summer recess. That is the question he is asking. Furthermore, the responsibility for setting VAT rates lies with the State Secretary for Finance. That would be my answer to the questions put by the CDA and Mrs Van Esch. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u238	That's good. Let's go clean up. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u239	I ask the Members to take their place again. I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u240	Thank you, Mr President. I still have questions about mouth caps, personal protective equipment, care, both the catching-up care and the people working in care, and a number of questions about zoonoses and diseases before they are zoonoses. But let me start with the masks, the personal protective equipment. I think we all remember, just filming back where we were a year ago; the huge need for the provision of personal protective equipment. We all said, even here in the Chamber: bring as many and as soon as possible personal protective equipment of good quality to the Netherlands. And that is why the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries (Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries) was set up, where central purchasing was carried out together with care and the sector, looking at three criteria: price, quality and size. I have given answers to a number of parliamentary questions this week. A number of supplementary questions have been asked, and I am happy to answer them. But here's another thing. This morning I spoke to a number of journalists and then I got the question about pre-financing. That is a theme I had never dealt with before. I have gone a little deeper into it and I cannot at this time give the Chamber extensive information, but I would like to say a few things. Let me also say that I intend to really get the best out of this and to see what's underneath all those stones that might still be there. I said in response to that journalist who asked if there was funding from VWS, that there could not be, but it turned out to be. Some deals we've prefinanced. That was actually a very common way of doing things in a pandemic, as I was reminded today, because I did, of course, do a little research. What was the case? If you went to a country like China, or to another country, and you hadn't already financed your goods in advance, sometimes when they left the factory they were already owned by someone else, so you had to pay in advance. And so the producers, the suppliers, asked for advance payments. And that's why VWS provided the necessary pre-financing. Of course, I would have liked it if I could have answered all the questions today, but I can't and I don't want to guess. I think the Chamber is entitled to all the answers. I know that over a hundred orders have been placed by the LCH between March and May, with advance payments being made in all cases. As I can see now, about ten orders are 100% prefinanced, including the deal with RGA. But I really think it's important to figure this out, to really see if we have all the information. That is why I would like to make this even more clear and I will inform you about it. And when do I want to do that? I said in reply to the questions that, following a regular audit, questions were raised about two deals, including RGA. That report's almost done. I was going to send that to the Chamber, as I said in the questions, but I would like to find out a few things about this. I'll report that as well when I give the investigation to the Chamber. I have also said it several times this week in front of the camera, and I am happy to do so here: I think it is important to answer for the use of public funds, even in a crisis. I think that with the LCH, which assessed quality, number and price, we had a good portal to do that, but there has often been a lot of money involved. That is also public money, and it has to be accounted for. Mr. Chairman. I am now answering a number of questions raised in the debate, but I would like to say to the Chamber in advance that I myself was surprised by that question this morning about what else is going on and I want to be completely transparent about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u241	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u242	The minister or her predecessor, the cabinet, has just been paged by an impostor, a criminal, a con artist and a member of the CDA, named Sywert van Lienden. You have not yet given the beginning of an answer. Thousands of people and companies have offered to the government to supply mouth caps. Out of the total, there have been only three, Madam Minister, three, who have made a deal with the government for this amount of more than EUR 100 million. That's only three of them. One of those three was Mr Van Lienden. I just want to know how that went. If thousands of people and companies make offers and there are only three who go above 100 million, then it may not be that just that CDA member of the CDA's election programme committee, through Mr Omtzigt of the CDA, Mr Rutte does not come in person, but he did make the offer and that your ministry, your predecessor, then transfers 100 million, while he just cheated! Madam President. I have here a tweet by Mr Sywert van Lienden of 3 May. I quote: "There is zero own gain in this. I'm not gonna do it. I've set aside my work." The guy just lied to me. He cheated. In the program you mentioned, One Today, another entrepreneur, Mr Harm Prins, will be joining us tonight. I can mention his name, because he also mentions it. Here's what he's saying. "I also entered the ship because of him. When he told me that he did it for care and without profit, I sold him mouth caps for 55 cents each, but I immediately saw that he sold them on the internet for 80 cents." The guy went on the bottle for $1 million. This Van Lienden guy's just a con man. He's a common con man. He lied about why he did it. I do not think Mr Omtzigt was aware of that either, as I hear De Omtzigt say in a newspaper somewhere and with the Prime Minister. As one of three throughout the Netherlands, he just makes a deal of over 100 million. He's just putting 9 million taxpayers' money in his pocket. You must resist this with the greatest force. This smells like corruption. This smells like boyfriend politics. Money for a liar. 9 million euros! What kind of wonderful things could we have done in the care of all of us? I think you should step away from that. I will put that to the Chamber in a motion, but I would also ask you to say that this is a fraud. We have an article in the Civil Code, Article 44 Title 2, which states that a legal act can be destroyed if it has been created by deceit. This is cheating. Someone has posed as some sort of altruistic person and has received 9 million. Are you prepared to condemn not only this impostor, this criminal, but also to do your best to ensure that that agreement is overturned by the judge and to recover the money from that man? He made $9 million in lies. The mouth caps are rotting in the warehouse, because they were still too bad to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u243	Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear. I have also indicated that this week in several places and also here. I'm here to answer for the government's share. We had a huge need for personal protective equipment with each other, also motivated and driven by the Chamber. VWS did it for a while, but that wasn't the core competence. We have commissioned the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries, the experts from that world, to do so. Back then, we didn't have the luxury of looking at anything other than: is it a good price, can they deliver, is it a good quality? We also received offers from many euros; we rejected them. This is part of the concern in which companies work, and it is therefore not surprising that a certain degree of profit can be made. I repeat it to everyone: if you make exorbitant profits in a crisis, that is not a good picture. But I also think that anyone who does so should be responsible for that. I found that Mrs Van den Berg showed very well what the difference is: what has been doing business with the government and what has been the external communication? I say this to Mr Wilders because I am going to look into a number of things about pre-financing, as I have just said. The offer they made was attractive. They had a substantial number, they had a CE marking, they could deliver quickly and they met the benchmark price. And we didn't have the luxury of saying, "Don't do that." We said, "Come on over here." And they had a deal as Relief Goods Alliance, and they delivered in accordance with those terms. They have therefore delivered in accordance with the conditions. I cannot declare that agreement null and void because there is something said in the communication to the outside world that is not contained in that agreement. In that agreement it was clear that this was an e.g. So that's my answer to that question. Furthermore, I believe that everyone should be accountable for what they have done or what they have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u244	I ask you, do you think this man is a fraud? He has, once again within the CDA, acted as a member of the CDA Election Programme Committee as someone who would do so for altruistic reasons, without profit interest. And that's why he came to the Prime Minister with his proposal. What kind of entrepreneur would normally have that luxury of coming to the Prime Minister through a member of the parliament of a government party? On the grounds of lies! Not because of a nice offer, but because of lies. And then he joined VWS and got 100 million and put 9 million in his pocket. That stinks, doesn't it? That's corruption, isn't it, if we all know he lied about it, that he just didn't say "I do it as a company"? I dare to suspect that, hopefully, and knowing Mr Omtzigt, I assume that if he had heard that it was just a company with 9 million in its pocket, he would have said: just go to a ministry or to the body that goes about it and do your best. But he came to the Prime Minister through a member of the parliament of a government party. And then, that's also in the pieces, he also put a bit of pressure on social media and on talk shows. And I believe in the document of "the Volkskrant" it was stated that within that national consortium there were objections to the agreement with the CDA. That confirms multiple sources. The margins were found to be too high, the quality of his stuff was doubted - which turned out to be too high, because they were not used. And the Ministry finally pushed the deal, that's what it says here. The man is an impostor, a liar. I want the Minister to at least acknowledge that something has gone terribly wrong here. If I come up with a boyfriend who has a deal to do... I'm not going to be with the Prime Minister, you know. I wouldn't even try. But I wouldn't get there, and there wouldn't be a deal with 100 million euros. And he put $9 million in his own pocket of taxpayers' money. Just a cheater who said, "I'm not gonna do it, I'm not gonna make a profit on it." And $9 million in his own pocket. What do you think of that? May I ask you, then, to the woman? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u245	Well, I'm just trying to be very honest about that, too. When I received the question today about this pre-financing, I thought: for a sum of 100 million, that is impossible. So I also said directly: no, it's not. It turned out to be the case, after which I also said to the journalist: I would like to restore this. Luckily, I got the opportunity. But I also want to be very honest about it here, because it is indeed a very high amount. I agree with Mr Wilders, and so I am going to find out. But there could be facts underneath it. This organization worked with big names. There may be legitimate facts underneath, and I'm not going to disgrace or accuse anyone in advance. But I'll tell you what, I'll figure it out. And I would also like to remind you of the context of that moment in the crisis. Because almost every group received messages on the phone or by e-mail from people who had offers for personal protective equipment. I had them when I was Secretary of State for Social Affairs too, from people through my network who often said, "I can't get through to VWS," or "I can't get through to the LCH." Then a lot of people brought that to the attention of VWS, and that's why there was also a window at VWS specifically for this. And we didn't have the luxury of saying, "That lead, we're not investigating it." Whether it was a well-known Dutchman who was there were also there were politicians, entrepreneurs, we have examined all leads. And if it was a good deal, we wouldn't have the luxury of saying, "We don't." We knew RGA was a company. We didn't assume at VWS that RGA was a non-profit organization. That is why I cannot say on that aspect that it was not in accordance with the agreements, because they were, and we knew that. But given the size of the amount, I would like to know, and I would also like to let Mr Wilders know, what was the basis for this. I assume that the LCH, which decided on the pre-financing, did so on the basis of frameworks, but I will present that neatly for myself, but certainly also for your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u246	It's my last interruption, but it's really an answer of ten times nothing. The Minister doesn't even dare say what she thinks. She says to me "I'm gonna find out." Yeah, you shouldn't. You have indeed even pre-financed it. It shouldn't get much crazier, should it? A person who lies and cheats said, "I'm doing it, while I don't want to make a dime out of it. I'll take care of it. I have a big heart for the care. I'm not gonna do it." Those are the literal words in his tweet. I cannot understand why such a person lied, that he came to the Prime Minister of the Netherlands with that lie through a CDA MP, that he went on television with the lie, that he got a contract of over 100 million and that he put 9 million in his pocket. He just put taxpayers' money in his pocket. He's a cheater. And then I ask the Minister: what do you think of that? Then she says, "I'm gonna find out. I'm not gonna say that, you know, an impostor, I'm gonna find out." What are the people at home to think happened to that money, if you don't even say: this is a liar and I will do everything I can to get that contract and that money to be undone? Because those caps haven't even been used at all! The quality was so dreary that they're still rotting in a warehouse somewhere. So he fooled you. He cheated on you. He's delivered you bad goods that can't even be used. He put $9 million in his pocket. And the minister here says, "I can't say anything about it." Shame on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u247	In reply to Mrs Pouw-Verweij's questions, I will say a few words about quality, because she has also asked questions about it. However, I would like to say here that perhaps things have been said in the media that have turned out to be different. It is my responsibility to reflect on the agreements made before delivery. In addition, we knew that Relief Goods did not deliver Alliance in the capacity of a non-profit organisation. They didn't break any agreements there. But again, we also had an investigation carried out following a regular audit. That investigation's almost over. I will certainly forward that to your Chamber, along with what I have further worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u248	First Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then Mrs Ploumen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u249	It is an interesting debate, but I think it is a great distraction. The debt is now conveniently parked at Sywert van Lienden. Of course, 100 million has been spent on these ridiculous mouth caps, which everyone said at the time did not meet. Yeah, they're not gonna do it either. They've never met, and they're in a storage facility somewhere now. And then the Minister comes up with: yes, but it's very difficult to do business in China. Well, I think the ministry's been doing business in China for years, because everything comes from China. I've picked up some containers from China myself. That's not so hard at all. Everyone does. The point is, to blame Sywert van Lienden is easy. Do you not agree with me that it is actually just a major failure of your organization that an organisation that is only just in existence, which is not a preferred supplier, is going to get involved? All kinds of rules must have been broken to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u250	I hear a lot of insinuations in one question, which I really reject. I also want to say that the first delivery of mouth caps we received under police supervision had to cross the border. It was so intense at the time. These were the masks for the care, I would like to say to Mr Van Haga. And they were desperately needed. However, he does have a point on the content. Because I think it is important for the Dutch public and Dutch politics and Dutch journalism and Dutch care to know what happened. I attach great importance to transparency. And that is why I want to be honest here about what questions I have been asked by journalists and to find out. That is precisely why I have indicated this here and not to think of some formula which will allow me to say to you next week: I hinted at that. No. Klip-and-ready, because this is very important. There is talk of political parties all the time, but I also do not rule out the fact that someone was looking for so much publicity and in so many places made it clear that he himself could have played a role. But I don't want to insinuate at all. I don't want to guess. I want to find out, and I want to provide you with an answer. So the answer, apart from your insinuations, is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u251	I'm glad the Minister is so concerned about it. I didn't say anything about political parties. I don't care who comes to the gate knocking with $100 million in mouth caps. What matters to me is who is responsible? I've learned by now that I can never hold the officials responsible. The trader in question simply comes up with a proposal. Probably thousands have arrived at the gate. So my question to you is: who is ultimately responsible for this debacle, where 100 million has been thrown over the bar for weird mouth caps?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u252	A $100 million debacle for mouth caps? In reply to Mrs Pouw-Verweij, I will say something about the quality of the masks. Apart from that, I'm responsible. As the Prime Minister said, we acted in the heat of the crisis. We've made a lot of decisions. There are also a lot of wrong decisions. If we do not take account of this and if I do not answer to the people of the Netherlands, then we cannot learn anything from it. I want to do this in full transparency. I'm very attached to that. That's what I'm like in politics. Even if something ugly comes out. But I will tell you that even if it is not ugly, I will also present it to you. And then I hope we can learn something from it and we can keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u253	You are, of course, accountable here in this Chamber. It's not just about the 100 million euros in mouth caps. It is also the 5.1 billion for which there are no receipts and the 1.1 billion for the test society. We are talking about €500,000 per day for making the test capacity available. It's a chain of debacles. If you do feel responsible for this, I hope that you will also take that responsibility, and today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u254	I'm gonna answer for that. That is what we will do in the debate on accountability. That's what I keep doing; I'm attached to that. I was in another department at the time, but we also made arrangements there. Things we'd have to do for years if we didn't... had to be done in six weeks. We knew that with the Tozo and the NOW, we could put people in a position to use it when they didn't need it. But the distress was so high; we did it. I've seen the colleagues on VWS who were trying hard for the people in the care. The masks were meant for them and the need was so high and the supplies were so hard that if we hadn't done it, we would have had a completely different situation if we hadn't had airplanes from China to the Netherlands outside our beaten frames. Then we would have seen images that we now see in other countries, in the Dutch streets. I'm proud of what people did back then. I'm taking account of the mistakes that were made at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u255	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u256	Yeah, finally. I'm not proud of this cabinet at all. It's a series of mistakes, starting with the Boeing full of mouth caps that we sent to China. Anyway, apparently, you're going to be accountable in a few weeks. I think you should do this now for all these mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u257	Mrs Ploumen, your last question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u258	Yes, chairman, which I may fill out at my discretion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u259	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u260	It's very good that the Minister wants to be accountable. That's the way it's supposed to be. I understand that she cannot answer all the questions immediately. She's gonna do that. Now to Mr Van Lienden, who has led everyone on and shamelessly abused the situation. To get a look at what happened, it is important to share the maximum information. I hear from the Minister that she intends to do the same. It is important to know whether it is true that the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries did not give up the deal with what Mr Van Lienden's company turned out to be. Who else has come to the Minister's table personally? Three deals over 100 million have been made. Is it possible to reveal the details of those three deals? Then it can be looked at, a comparison can be made and it can also be put into context. Is it true that when the deal was concluded with what turned out to be a Mr. van Lienden's company, even though he said it was a deal not to, uh, 91 million mouth caps were already on the shelf? I can imagine that the Minister will be able to answer some of my questions immediately, but if that is not possible now, please answer as soon as possible. For as she herself says, she is accountable here. We await the account of Mr Van Lienden, who has only turned a blind eye to us. 'Cause "in order not" means anything other than putting 9 million profits in your pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u261	On the latter: that is indeed also the subject of the public debate. But I've already indicated that we already knew internally what the nature of the company was. In this capacity, agreements have also been made. I can tell Mrs Ploumen that I need to find out if I can say anything about who was at the table in the deals of over 100 million. I don't know. I can't unlock some data because of privacy, but I'll come back to that in second term. The two questions put by Mrs Ploumen are also the questions put by Mrs Pouw-Verweij. How can it be that this deal was signed when LCH said don't? For us, the following mattered. LCH said: on quality the deal is fine, on price the deal is also fine, but we still have a number of other big orders, so in terms of number the deal wouldn't have to be. At that time, taking political responsibility, we in the United States said: when it comes to the number, we are doing it better safe than sorry because we prefer too much rather than too little. For that reason, VWS has indeed said: we will do it. This was really about substantial numbers of mouth masks. Then the question is, why are they still on the shelf? That was also a question from Mrs Pouw-Verweij. You can see that I had to dive in for a while myself, which also the RIVM played a role in this. In particular, the RIVM has always pointed this direction at that time. The RIVM came into view because more and more parties came in without a CE marking. We are used to seeing the quality of the CE marking. This also shows whether the protective equipment complies with existing laws and regulations and whether it is allowed on the European market. A lot of providers couldn't talk about that at the time. Many mouth masks came directly from Chinese manufacturers and the documentation was not always clear or not in line with EU standards. At that time we asked from VWS that we also agreed with the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the SZW inspection whether the RIVM for the time being could take over the assessment of the quality of mouth nose masks without CE marking. The RIVM has no role in the regular market release, but it has had it if there was any doubt about the validity of a CE markup. RIVM has been asked for RGA mouth masks to verify the validity of the CE certificate in the notified body concerned. Because that's what actually happens with tools: that there is a notified body, ugly abbreviated as NoBo, who issues that CE marking. Then I learned that RIVM started checking these mouth masks. However, at the same time it was established that the CE certificate on it was valid because it was valid on this batch. So that has been decisive. RIVM also said: we can't actually control this, but we see that we shouldn't do this, which is to say "this party doesn't." But they did have a CE mark, which is why they did have access. Mr President, it is a bit technical, but I have to explain it for the sake of care. Eventually, the masks were not delivered, not because they were not good, but because there was a decrease in demand for personal protective equipment. That's why they're still there, and that's why they finally fulfilled the contract, in terms of the quality with which they'd deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u262	Knowing that there will be another parliamentary survey, I understand from conversations with epidemiologists that the Ministry did not prepare for the upcoming pandemic in time and at the last minute felt overwhelmed by what was then coming to the Netherlands. I also understand that there were not enough schematics and not enough epidemiologists in the house who could think along, and that is why profiteers like Sywert van Lienden took the booty. Is that also your image, what I hear from others, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u263	I have to say quite frankly that I am just too far away from that first period. I don't want to hide behind that, but I don't know. What I do know, and what I hear from the tradition of colleagues, both administrative and administrative, is that at once the whole world's question was turned upside down. You have to imagine, I say through the President: we actually had a kind of bol.com model when buying personal protective equipment. So you order, and then there's gonna be a ringing bell somewhere, and then it's gonna be made or delivered, and that's actually always going well in normal times, but not in crisis. So there was a lot of sticking, and that's why we set this LCH. That is why we are now saying: learning from what happened then, we are actually going to work with a kind of dike model. I sent a letter of inquiry on that, too. It's about the supply from the healthcare provider himself, from the supplier and from a number of companies in the Netherlands, who can scale up production, because we just never want this to happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u264	"We never want to do this again." I think that's the least we can do. There were already indicators that the Netherlands was not sufficiently prepared for more things. There's been a shortage of medication. That was already going on before the pandemic, so that we are simply not self-sufficient was already a clear symptom at that time. There have already been several parties who have said that the Netherlands must have more of its own stock in order. The fact that the number of ic-beds per 100 000 already deviated in a negative way from other countries around us was already a clear signal. There were several people who said, as a result of previous outbreaks, that the Netherlands should be better prepared when a pandemic can really blow the place down. That pandemic ended up there. And yet we reacted surprisedly and followed the facts, while the world has long warned us with all its facts of all kinds of bird flu: it goes wrong once. It's gone wrong. We should not have been surprised; we should not have had to go after the facts. The question is: why did VWS really run so late?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u265	I find this very difficult, because this is a separate debate. Many letters have already been sent and evaluations announced, and we have also said: let's not start evaluating the battle during the fight. I see... no, I don't want to do it. My procedural proposal is to discuss this at another time. In any case, as far as personal protective equipment is concerned, I can say that we have written a letter on how we are going to do things differently and that we also want to make much more use of medicines on European territory. But I would say, let us discuss Mrs Gündoğan's question at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u266	I agree with that and there will also be an evaluation. Otherwise, we are already going to evaluate each other very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u267	The last thing I would like to say about this is that I fully agree with that. The reason it all comes up now is that everyone is actually surprised at how Sywert could have done this. That's the sum of all the questions we have yet to answer. We should have set up a better system so that these people can't rob our taxpayers' money. That's it! I'll piss off the questions for a later moment, but it's also about the ethical side of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u268	The Minister will investigate and at least come back to this matter. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u269	I will, Madam President. I'll resist temptation. I come now to Mrs De Vries' questions. She said that there is something in the covenant about profit-making and she wants to know what that means. Maybe it's good to make that split very clear. The Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries is a collection of experts, people who know how the market of personal protective equipment works. In normal life they were of course competitors of each other, but they sat together because of the social interest that we would bring personal protective equipment to the Netherlands. You really get a look at each other's purchasing kitchen and that's why they signed a confidentiality agreement with each other. Furthermore, they have signed that they would do that work, the logistics work and the organisation of that purchasing process, without profit. If you were a supplier to the LCH, you could make a profit. That's just what happens in that part of the care and that's why we used that bandwidth in the prices there. That prevented us from going over that. So you're talking about regular contract agreements, in this case between Mediq and the suppliers. RGA was a supplier and VWS was therefore not a party to it. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the questions about catching up. Many Members of the European Parliament have raised this issue and I will perhaps, given the time allowed, try to get people a bit hungry, even if it is of course a very important subject. Organising this catching-up is a very big and important task and we can only do it together. And by "together," I mean not only all the parties in the care field, but also the supervisors, the professionals, the health insurance companies and the people in the department. In any case, I am very happy that the NZa and the field parties have joined forces to make that plan. I have therefore also expressed my thanks and appreciation. That plan is about hospitals making appointments with independent clinics. It's about getting together with the general practitioners and the district nurse. It's about rehabilitation clinics. So it is really about cooperation, actually the cooperation that we set up last year in that crisis to fight corona. We want to use this infrastructure and that cooperation for catching up. I've heard a few times in the media that people forced into a different place than they would want and shouldn't have to have surgery with their own doctor. I think it would be good to mention that here, because that is not the case. Just when people think it takes too long, they are offered the opportunity to be helped in another place. But then it's your choice. We also keep the National Coordination Centre Patients Spread active to spread people with covid across the hospitals, so that you keep the same amount of space for knee surgery, cataract surgery and other treatments in each region. It is very important to bear in mind that this plan is actually made up of two pillars, both of which are equally important and both bear that plan. The first pillar is the importance of patients. We have explicitly spoken with the Patient Federation about the best way to communicate about this plan. The second pillar is that it stands and falls with how the people in care recover. We know from the Patient Federation that some of the patients are okay with being helped in another place. These people are flexible, but there are also a lot of people who prefer to join their trusted doctor. We want to catch up on critical scheduled care, cancer treatments and transplants within six weeks. That is already happening at the moment, because we see that by scaling down the ic-beds capacity is released for scheduled operations. I will also make it clear in all transparency how that process has gone. The other deferred scheduled care will be overtaken as much as possible during the course of this year. After the consultation we had with the healthcare organisations, they said: at least make sure that there is a run-off in 2022. Why would you be able to do that faster when you see a calculation and plan on it? That's what it's all about. This collaboration creates a kind of added value of what you can do, especially when you combine it with what is in the letter: the recovery of the care itself. I see the numbers, too. I see the NZa's figures on the unfinished referrals, the coverage of the operations. I've also read today's coverage of the anesthesiologists. We have asked the hospitals to identify for themselves how many operations they have left and how they are going to do in the region and between the regions themselves. The most important thing is that Mr Wilders referred to this and that was also his leitmotiv at all times that he has asked for it to be clear to the patient. I can't put a calendar behind what, when in which month, but we have really deployed, also with the Patient Federation, on communication with the patient: start with your own health care provider, but also contact the health care provider if you think it takes too long. Then, of course, the big risk that everyone says: nice plan, we're gonna do it. But quite frankly, the healthcare system does not always invite this cooperation. That's why we asked the NZa to monitor that and report me on it monthly. I can imagine that the Chamber also appreciates that information and I am, of course, very willing to share that information with the Chamber. Once again, we can only do that if the people in the care recover, if they can take vacation, if they can feel the air. I don't know about you, Mr President, but at least I noticed that at the moment those numbers were going down, instead of having fun, there was really a lot of emotion first. I see that around me, with the people in the department, with myself, but certainly with the people in the care: you actually get very tired when you get that rest. So that recovery is really needed. We also ask people to continue with this concern, but please let us also work on that recovery. We don't think of that either from the drawing board. That's what we ask the Federation Medical Specialists: ask your supporters what helps. We ask the UN: they are your people, what can we do to help you? I have a number of questions from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u270	It might be good to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u271	She said: if you do that now, that timeline is very optimistic. Can't you give that an extra push by cutting those administrative burdens? I agree with her. I also think we've actually seen two moves over the past year. On the one hand, the program (Ont) Regulal de Zorg has quite a bit of a standstill, because all focus of course went to the covid care and the care that had to go on. But, and I think Mrs van den Berg is referring to that, a lot of people in care went on to do things without the proper procedures being followed, and that actually went very well in quite a lot of places. So, of course, we all want less bureaucracy. I would suggest that we do an inventory of the relaxations that have taken place and what opportunities we can retain. Mrs Van den Berg specifically asked about the development of catching-up care. I have just indicated that the NZa monitors that accessibility and reports on it on a monthly basis. The IGJ is of course also involved, but from the NZa there are regular discussions about the implementation of the framework appropriate catch-up care. The healthcare institutions and health insurers together identify the expected size of delayed care and plan to make up for it by hospital. The health insurance companies therefore also have an insight into the waiting times. They can therefore inform and actively offer patients, through care mediation, to be transferred to other healthcare providers. The NZa is now developing a number of means of communication for doctors, together with the Patient Federation, with Health Insurance Agency Netherlands and also with the Family Medical Association, so that they can have that conversation in the office, and for patients, so that they also know how to get the information when they are due and how to speed it up. I say this in response to Mrs Westerveld, who asked how we are actually going to do with this catching-up care. Mrs Van den Berg said that the letter also looked a little further ahead, but that is not really what the Minister is saying at home. That's what I care about. Of course, we all exchanged ideas about it here in the Chamber. I also think it is very good to have the resilience of the crisis that we need in the healthcare sector really on the table. Mrs Gündoğan said the same thing. We will have to be prepared not only for a pandemic, but for health crises at all. I really think that decision-making is up to a next cabinet. I am also aware of the discussions that are taking place in the Chamber when they concern the system. That is why I would like to add these building blocks and prepare the discussion for the next cabinet. Mrs Van den Berg asked about people suffering from chronic complaints after corona. Mr Kwint also asked for this. The FMS, the NHG and the Long Alliance Netherlands, working together with the various occupational groups through ZonMw, but also with the patient representation, are working on a multidisciplinary integrated directive for COVID-19 aftercare. They want it to be kept up-to-date and accessible to professionals. We are now examining with ZonMw whether additional research should be started. ZonMw doesn't sit still waiting, but in anticipation already inventoryes the nature and extent of the persistent complaints and all sorts of things surrounding them. It is true that quite a few people have these complaints and it is important that we find leads for treatment. As far as that long-term covid is concerned, Mr. Kwint actually zoomed into the clinics. He said people shouldn't get hurt. I couldn't agree more. The estimate of medical-specialist rehabilitation doctors is that about 2% to 5% of people need complex treatment in medical-specialist rehabilitation. So it's really a lot of people. They have made agreements with the members within the trade association, because they only want to provide rehabilitation care for patients who have really complex problems under the guidance of a rehabilitation doctor, so that there is no profit maximization, because that is a danger that would be lurking. I am pleased that this sector has at least this active attitude, but also the health insurance companies must, of course, take responsibility here and keep a close eye on this. Mr Van der Staaij asked, and I thought that was a very good point...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u272	Before you went any further, Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Kwint had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u273	The minister says she's leaving system changes to a next cabinet. I can understand that on all sides, but I think we can use a lot of action without having to change the set-up to make the organisation of the corona care and that of crisis care permanent. I look forward to that in another letter. The Minister is right to say that, in order to make up for this recovery, the over-tired staff can recover. At present, several reports show that 40% of working time is spent on administration. Thank you for the Minister's promise that she will at least look at which administration was not done in covid time and where it all went well. I would like to ask the Minister if she can take an extra step. Let me give you a few examples. I hear from a ggz institution that did one case for the Wmo, for which more than 30 pages had to be accounted for. I'm told by larger healthcare providers who have different locations that each healthcare office has its own way of accountability. I hear from physiotherapists that insurers have different codes for the same knee treatment. You don't need a system change for that kind of thing. That's just more standardizing and standardizing. Then a whole section of that administration can go down, which significantly reduces the workload in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u274	I find the very nice examples and I am very willing to look at them. I would point out, however, that it is also something that has been included in the electoral programme in the context of standardisation by many parties, or not, for example in the case of healthcare choices in Map. With that it is also something that touches the formation. But I agree with Mrs van den Berg: we must not abandon what we can do. But I can also see that the profession itself is now in motion. That's what I like about what we've got. The medical specialists, who have worked very hard, the nurses and the other employees in the care, ask in their own professional group: what do we need to do to do this? That's important. I have, of course, consulted with the care field once a week, so I will also discuss Mrs Van den Berg's appeal there. In addition, the cooperation arrangements obviously provide opportunities to do more with the available capacity. That, I think, is something that is very clear in this plan. These opportunities are created by the fact that we can also use the cooperation from the crisis, which we are still continuing, to catch up. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u275	Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u276	... which is a strong supporter of system changes in care. But let us not pretend that the streamlining of some procedures now has to be stopped because it is on the formation table. If you're talking at this level of detail, I can see why it's taking so long. My question was about that long covid, precisely because I want to point out specifically patients who are actually suffering from a conflict between a private clinic and an insurer. The insurance company says we don't want to pay it back. And the clinic says, "You'll have a problem," because we do want to make our money. I think it is very good when the sector says that we are trying to reduce the tendency to maximize profits as much as possible. I can only support that. But I do want specific attention for this group, people who are now threatening to get no care at all because they can't afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u277	In my view, we also briefly discussed this during the previous debate. It is insured care and it should not matter whether people are being treated in an independent treatment centre or in a hospital. The place where they're being treated shouldn't matter, because it's the same type of care. But if Mr Kwint will allow me, I will take this for the second term, because I think it is very important with him that people do not fall apart. Mr Van der Staaij asked: is there any work being done on standardisation? That was very appealing to me. Of course, this is important. Shouldn't these insurers be in their role too? I think that the current phase is really a transitional stage where we really need to stay alert. "The fire" came along a few times. I'm not ready to say, "Sign fire master." So I really want to keep the current arrangements, including the back-up arrangements, in the air for a while. I am thinking, for example, of the additional agreements with the NVZ, the NFU and Zorgverzekerings Nederland about this catching-up care, but also of the agreements made by the health insurance companies to provide financial security to hospitals. The same applies to the ic-up plan. And at the same time, of course, we want to return to the regular roles and responsibilities. Then I come back to Mrs Van den Berg, who asks: but do you apply the lessons you have learned and do you deal with everything a little more flexibly? And I also come to Mr Wilders, who asks: are you going to make it so that those health reserves are actually going to get substance? I say to Mr Wilders that a national campaign will also be launched in a few weeks' time. If he tells me what radio station he likes to listen to, I'll make sure that campaign is enough to hear. So these are certainly very important matters, but I think we should keep an eye on things for the time being. I come to Mr Kwint's point, and I'm going to try something. For Mr Kwint has been standing here time and time again, and with other colleagues, to talk about the ESC report. And it is true: I responded in the letter as I responded to the SER report. Mr Kwint's motion is very much about salary, about working conditions. These are very important themes, which come back in every conversation I have with people in the care. At the same time, it is a fact that within the mandate I have as a outgoing minister, a structural investment that can really run into hundreds of millions or billions requires making choices. However, I would like to add that, and I would also like to point out here that when I received the SER report, I really received energy from it. There were people who had found each other: from the employers' side, from the workers' side, from the occupational groups themselves. They have made an agenda and said: do not let go of the agenda. They also did not write things down in their report, for example amounts. But at some point they really put their finger on the sore spot. They're actually saying that the whole pay house of care has some kind of tummy, so to speak. There's really a shortage in one place. They really put their finger on the sore spot. They make a lot of noise in dealing with the problem: what can an organisation itself do, what should the sector do, what should the government do? I thought, "I'm just gonna try." I am just being honest: I cannot take a structural bite out of the budget. But I listened very carefully to what Mr Kwint said last time. He said: "The summer will last until 21 September. What can we do?" I can try to set things up. No one knows how it goes. I can see which building blocks I can set up. I will talk to all the parties in advance: what are the options for putting this SER advice into practice and at what speeds could you do that? Then we don't have to waste any time until there's a new cabinet. Of course, you have a choice for this once a year, also in the financial sense. My proposal is that I should also like to say here that I am going to do what I can and that I am trying to accommodate the Chamber in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u278	I'm not gonna lie. When the minister began to tell me what she could do, I had hoped for something more than lay piles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u279	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u280	We've talked about this 100 times. We both weigh the missionary status differently. In fact, I believe that a outgoing cabinet is still bound by the performance of Parliamentary rulings. The Chamber simply said: make sure that there is a plan to increase their salary by the end of the summer. Now we're sitting, at least you're in a missionary period. We have no idea how long the formation will last. What I am worried about and why I keep being so hammered at that moment, at the end of summer: I know that this summer the budgets are going to be discussed and I have no idea, really no idea, how long that formation will last, but I think that the cabinet, the forming parties, and also the politics as a whole cannot sell it to care personnel who have run out of their feet that nothing will happen to the salary of health care workers for a year to come, because the parties here are not out yet. So can we at least agree that, if there is no new cabinet yet, the argument about Princess Day 'we are outgoing, so we cannot take any major steps' will lapse?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u281	If Mr Kwint is referring to the 0% increase in wages in his contribution, I think he is referring to the motion that I said I cannot implement. The situation in hospitals is as follows. In general hospitals there was an increase of 3% on 2 January, i.e. the collective agreement increase, and in the umc's it was 3%. Hopefully the talks on the collective agreement will soon be concluded with the appointment of a scout. But then we'll talk about the collective agreement part. That's where there's development in salary. We are talking here about the ESC's problem analysis in relation to the government. I'm just not gonna make any promises I can't keep, but I want to show that I feel like an ambassador to the SER report. There are no amounts in the ESC report either. I thought, "I can't walk, but I can just get to work and see how far I'm gonna get." Mr Kwint said last time: end of summer is end of summer, so 21 September. Then I thought, "I'm not gonna promise anything, but I'm gonna see how far I get."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u282	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u283	I appreciate that. I just want to make sure that there is not going to be a year lost for the care staff, because they are not out of here yet. Then they do it with intermediate agreements; I don't care how they arrange it. Can you at least send the reconnaissance to the Chamber by then? Then, if necessary, if the cabinet does not arrange it itself, we can say to the General Reviews ourselves: do it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u284	Even if I did not, I still think that Mr Kwint will come forward with a proposal to the General Reviews. Of course, because it is an important agenda. I'm gonna get to work on the SER report. I'm gonna make building blocks. I'm gonna go talk to the partners and see what I can get ready. We all don't know what's going on, but let's at least agree that I'm going to do my best to ensure that no time is wasted that doesn't have to be lost. I'd like to make that commitment. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Van Haga's question on the off-label use of ivermectin. I understand that there is a discussion about how Ivermectin works at COVID-19. The choice of including that medicine in the treatment directive is not mine. It belongs to the medical experts and the treatment directive committees that deal with it. We have Article 68 (1) of the Medicines Act. Who doesn't know him? "Prescription of medicinal products outside the indications registered by the College shall be permitted only if such prescription has been developed within the professional group of protocols or standards." At the moment, the advice is to do it only in a study context. Therefore, the off-label use of ivermectin is not permitted. Mr. Chairman. I have just said something to Mr Wilders about the National Healthcare Reserve. I've been looking into that for a while. The recruitment campaign uses online channels such as Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Twitter and Google, as well as advertisements in national and regional media and radio spots at week 24. In the first three weeks of the campaign, we reached 600,000 people via Facebook, 500,000 people via Google Display and 100,000 people via LinkedIn. Through the national and regional newspaper we have reached about 2.7 million people. So far we have 336 applications in, but we aim to ensure that some 2,000 people joined this initiative by the end of 2021. That would be an addition to the potential healthcare reserves at Extra Hands for Care. So we're gonna see if we think that's enough or that more needs to be done. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Van Esch's questions. She asked a number of questions about the approach zoonoses. I have said before: public health is paramount. Mrs Van Esch said that she sees it differently. She's been talking about goat farming. The research conducted under the RIVM showed that people living near a goat farm have a higher risk of pneumonia. That is, of course, a fact to which we must relate. If you have an area with intensive livestock farming, that chance is 30% to 60% higher than elsewhere. This is particularly true for people who live close to goat farming. I think the Secretary of State for Medical Care should take care of that. That's what I'm doing. It is important that we find the cause of this. Then you know what measures to take. The growth of goat farming appears to be flattening on the basis of the latest figures from the CBS. Several provinces have established moratoria on the basis of the precautionary principle, so that there can be no innovation or expansion of goat farms. We have recently answered parliamentary questions about this. The responsibility for these measures lies with the provinces, but as a cabinet we naturally support the provinces in the policies they have put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u285	You just answered the questions of the group. "We never want this again," you said very clearly. RIVM has warned that this may be a new zoonoses. The risk is there. The health services are calling for: it is medically irresponsible to allow goat farms to grow. Nevertheless, the number of goats in the Netherlands is still growing, despite the flattening. The number is growing, even though there are goat stops. We have 1.7 million people in the Netherlands at risk of pneumonia and perhaps a new zoonoses. Then I find and then my party finds it irresponsible that you say: public health is paramount, but I leave it to the provinces. We now see in provinces what effect that has. Those goat stops are already being messed up, which aren't even a goat stop. But it's already getting messed up. They are looking to see if that can be changed again. Then your answer is: I think public health should be paramount, but I am not going to do anything to prevent more goats from coming into the Netherlands. I don't think that's consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u286	I am partly concerned here with the Minister for Agriculture, because, of course, it is also about goat farming. I would like to say that the provinces have set up a moratorium. The regional organisation of the GGDs makes it possible for the provinces to relate very well to the local and regional situation. We support that policy. Let me put it this way: the government has taken a decision on this. And what government is that? It's the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u287	The G.D.D.s have made a call in the last few weeks. They have said that it is medically irresponsible that there is now being tormented in different provinces by that goat stop, which is not even a goat stop. Let us stress this again: the number of goats is still growing in the Netherlands. 1.7 million people are at risk of this possible new zoonosis. I really think that's your responsibility. Those people are at risk of pneumonia. And then you say that you want to prevent us from possibly ending up in another pandemic or running a risk of zoonoses at all times. Then I think: it is really up to you as Minister of Medical Care to intervene. We see it happening now. In different provinces, it's going the wrong way. And there's not even a stop yet. If you believe that public health is paramount and if you are in favour of the precautionary principle, then you cannot say now: we leave it to the provincial authorities. We can see that we are trying to increase the number of goats in the Netherlands on all sides at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u288	The GDPRs have an important role to play in taking this decision. If the GGDs are ringing the bell, then the provinces have to take that seriously. Mrs Van Esch also asked other questions about the approach of the zoonoses expert group, which will shortly present its report. I can't promise to send the cabinet response as early as June. We want, of course, to come up with an action plan for zoonoses until 2025. This kind of question needs to be put in place, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u289	At least it was promised that it would come before the summer. We've been waiting a long time. You can imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u290	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u291	I wonder what's gonna happen next. The expert group has indicated to come with it before the summer. I hope and trust that very good recommendations and very good suggestions will be presented. Then what are we gonna do with it? So what's the step we're gonna take from here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u292	I will make every effort to do so, even if it is a short cabinet response, and I will send it before the summer. I can imagine that there will be a more extensive response further down the road. I can well imagine that this report will also find its way to the formation table, because it will also contain choices that we as a outgoing cabinet cannot make anymore, but which are important for taking a position from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u294	Then Mrs Van Esch had also asked a question about foxes with bird flu. It was already known that avian flu viruses can jump on mammals and that virus mutations can occur with any increase of the avian flu virus. Probably these foxes have contracted the virus from eating sick wild birds and not necessarily from poultry. We are examining with the other Member States and with the poultry sector the possibilities for reducing the number of outbreaks of kept birds. We are also looking at the possibility of vaccination. I think a reference to the Bekedam report is in place here. That includes poultry density and livestock. Especially when it comes to a judgment on poultry density in relation to avian flu, I would like to await that report. But again, it's almost there. It won't take long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u295	Can I draw the conclusion that at least as an option it is taken into account that the issue of the large numbers of poultry in the Netherlands is a serious part of the discussions on the solutions to be sought for the seven-month detention obligation in the Netherlands? It's not just anything. It has never happened that the avian flu virus is still around this way and that it is still there. I would like to point out that we really should not underestimate the risks of this. We also said: Surely it will not happen that the corona virus of a mink jumps over a human being? And that's what happened. Here, too, there is a virus that goes from chickens to foxes. It's happening. We want to avoid it, I think we have a lot of parties that indicated that we are going into a next pandemic. When it comes to this type of risk and the solutions already in place, a reduction in the number of animals in poultry farming should certainly be part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u296	A bit of a faint metaphor, but then I shoot among the pigeons of my colleague of Agriculture and Nature. That's her wallet. I know this is a very sensitive subject, but it is difficult for me to make a statement on it now. I can pass it on to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u297	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u298	My final words are: I insist that you should really make your own portfolio of that and that you should not look at LNV. It is the responsibility of the Minister for Medical Care or VWS to ensure that we have our public health at one level here in the Netherlands. Public health at one level means that we must avoid the possibility of new pandemics. They can also be created here in the Netherlands. I really think it's your responsibility to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u299	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u300	Through the chairman: I think it is up to you to prevent it. I still find that too many references are made to LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u301	Just for a second. I now see how many facets of life have a relationship with health. I'm responsible for health care. That's part of public health. It is also about IenW with bicycle paths. It's also about Social Affairs, because if you're in debt, your health is bad. It's also about agriculture, because if you live too close to a goat stable, you're more likely to get pneumonia. The important thing is that you do this together. As long as it is in animals, it is the Minister of Agriculture. Of course we're watching. We have that meeting every week, and as soon as it jumps over, or threatens to jump over, VWS takes the lead. But I cannot and do not want to take over the portfolio of all my colleagues. But I'm definitely looking with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u302	Thank you. I think that's what you came up with at the end of the first term. You also have a second term. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u303	I had one more question about recovery care. We are indeed asking a great deal of the care workers, for a long time. There's a letter coming, and it says what's going to happen. To what extent are health care workers themselves included in this? Is the Minister prepared to take the next steps with them and to involve them even better than has happened so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u304	This is indeed a very important pillar of the approach. The V&VN and the FMS are now, as we speak, asking their own supporters what they need to do. I really didn't want us to write that down from the Ministry, but it really has to come from the people themselves. We're very close together. I am also very curious what they come up with and then I hope that we can pull the maximum out of the closet to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u305	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u306	One short question about the point: how does care come better out of the crisis? The Minister says that she is coming up with a number of building blocks for this discussion on care coordination, data exchange and so on. My simple question was: to what extent does the Minister also collect at the inspection, the NZa, the Health and Care Council, without all of this having to become thick reports; to what extent does she also collect points that can help with these building blocks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u307	That is a very good suggestion from Mr Van der Staaij, who we are actually already putting into practice, especially the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the NZa are very important partners in this. We also look wider in the field, to make it really very concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u308	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would actually suggest, if that's all right with you, that we continue with the second term. I think we can get it done by 8:00. That means that you really have to stick to 1 minute 20 and not make any more motions, otherwise all of that will come together and then we won't make it. This also means that the appreciation of the rulers must also be very short and no more questions. If you think that's a good approach, we're gonna do it. I'm also checking to see if that makes the rulers feel comfortable. Yeah? I shall then give the floor very quickly to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. A few points remain, such as the option for the Janssen vaccine. I'm surprised it's so complicated. It appears to be not a problem of implementation but of regulation. I hope the Minister will be able to resolve that rule swamp soon. Of course, the Janssen vaccine is simply being pierced, for example in the case of seafarers. At the fast test locations I had asked in which areas are 9% where it takes more than 30 minutes for you to reach your location. I understand that the Minister is concerned about Zeeland, but I would also like to look at other areas where there are problems, for example in the east of the country, in Limburg or in the Wadden Islands. I'd like to know what that is, what part that is. Thank you for the commitment about the Dutch outside the Netherlands. I look forward to the information on that in 14 days. Then the young people with a medical risk. I see the Minister's acting a little irritated, because he asked. That's right, he asked the Health Council, but when is that advice coming? Could it be there next week? Two final points: the letter on the reimbursement of tests for outgoing passengers. I'm curious as to how that's gonna go. There's a letter now, but when will it be decided? The risks are clear. Can the Minister state what is to be done? Finally, on the Van Lienden dossier, I would like to know how common it is to finance 100%, because then you have no entrepreneurial risk. I would also like the whole dossier to be properly examined, because we cannot ask for what we do not know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u310	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u311	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the higher the vaccination rate, the better the spread of the virus is inhibited;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that people can be vaccinated without an appointment at known locations after all age groups have had the chance to be vaccinated by appointment;]] [[calls on the Government to depart from this only if the vaccination rate is sufficient,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1243]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u312	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine was recently approved by the EEA also for children between 12 and 16 years of age;]] [[whereas the US and soon Germany are vaccinating children of this age;]] [[calls on the Government to invite children from 12 to 17 years of age who fall within the group of flu vaccination, and therefore have an increased medical risk, to the national vaccination campaign as soon as possible so that they can opt for a corona vaccination in consultation with their doctor and parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Indian variant is significantly more contagious and that vaccination, in particular after a first shot, is less effective;]] [[noting that, due to this variant, European countries such as Germany also apply a flight ban to India;]] [[Whereas the OMT indicates that strict compliance with the quarantine obligation is a tough condition for lifting flight bans;]] [[calls on the government to reconsider flight bans for countries where there are worrying variants such as India,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Ploumen, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Westerveld, Mr Bikker, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuzu, Mr Simons, Mr Van Haga and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1244]] [[This motion was proposed by members Paternotte, Van den Berg, Pouw-Verweij, Bikker, Kwint, Ploumen, Van der Staaij, Van Esch, Gündoğan, Den Haan, Simons, Westerveld and Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1245]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four motions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the 10 million voluntary vaccinations have a code blacked out on our ic's and the corona measures were based on it;]] [[calls on the government to lift all corona measures and give us back our freedom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1246]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u314	Motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[invites the cabinet to keep the terraces open during the European Championships until at least 11:00 p.m. in the evening, not to maximize the number of visitors to the terrace and to allow watching via TV screens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the prominent CDA member Van Lienden dragged in an order of more than EUR 100 million for mouth caps and earned EUR 9 million, but acted as if he had done it for nothing;]] [[Considers that Mr Van Lienden took advantage of the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to destroy the agreement concluded by Mr Van Lienden with the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries (LCH) for fraud under Article 3:44 BW and to recover the amount paid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1247]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1248]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u315	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona crisis has created a huge reservoir of delayed hospital care;]] [[calls on the Government to significantly increase the number of Ice Beds, Intensivists and Ice Nurses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1249]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u316	Finally, I owe an answer to the Minister for Medical Care about the broadcast where the commercial can be: the Call Venlo. Maybe you could still do that. You promised, so I'm assuming it will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u317	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First thanks to the Minister for Medical Care for the commitment to do additional research on how to change the administrative burden. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several European countries now have yellow travel advice, but that Germany is still on orange despite the low levels of contamination;]] [[noting that partly because of this German tourists cancel their bookings in the Netherlands, what we now see, among other things, in the run-up to the weekend of Fronleichnam, or Sacramentsdag in which many Germans traditionally spend their holidays in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to consider as soon as possible whether the travel advice for Germany can be adapted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1250]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u319	And then the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that due to a decreasing demand for tests several GMD test sites are scaled down or even completely closed down;]] [[Whereas, by the end of summer 2020, the test capacity was insufficient to maintain sufficient visibility of the spread of the virus, including as a result of which a second wave could not be prevented;]] [[Considers that it is wise to assume the worst scenario for developments towards the end of summer and autumn;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that test capacity can be rescaled immediately at the time it appears necessary and to inform the Chamber of how this is ensured,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1251]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u320	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two more proposals. One about care pay, among other things. My group continues to find it difficult to believe that in the week when the Chamber and Cabinet set up a committee and once again deliberate about whether our own royal salary is high enough, the caregivers are still waiting for what is due to them. Therefore: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the legislative proposal establishing an advisory body in the field of the legal status of political officials (35530) provides for the establishment of a special advisory committee to advise on, inter alia, the salary and working conditions of politicians;]] [[noting that the Cabinet does not carry out several adopted motions on structurally higher salaries for caregivers;]] [[shall not accept any increase in the remuneration of Members of Parliament, at least until caregivers have received their earned wage increase;]] [[calls on the Government not to propose an increase in the remuneration of directors, at least until caregivers have received their earned wage increase,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u322	And then about the Court of Auditors, the missing billions, the receipts. I have a great deal of understanding that things have been chaotic. But I've also said before: if those things have to come here, and it costs a little more...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u323	Then you're through your time, aren't you, if you still have a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u324	I thought, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to outline some context. But indeed, you're right. But it'll only cost a little more. That doesn't mean you don't have to do research so you can learn. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court found that last year the Ministry unlawfully spent 5.1 billion on corona material, such as mouth caps, ventilation equipment and tests, of which it has not been clearly demonstrated what happened to them;]] [[noting that a number of companies have made deals with the purchase of corona materials which have made considerable money;]] [[calls on the Government to have the General Court investigate further the procurement policy of corona materials such as mouth caps, tests and medical equipment at the time of the peak of the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u325	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the low number of infections and the increasing vaccination rate provide an opportunity to contain the virus;]] [[Whereas maximum control of the virus provides scope for keeping society open for as long as possible and for preventing disease, death and lung covid;]] [[calls on the government, in the "endemic situation," to use as a starting point for as few people as possible to become ill, to take the necessary preparatory measures to this end, and to inform the Court of Justice by 15 August at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u326	And, Mr. Chairman, I also asked if an interaction research could be done. That means evaluating, now to learn. My group colleague Attje Kuik has previously tabled a motion on this subject. We have kept it, and we will put it back to the vote, unless, of course, the Minister says: that is an excellent idea, Mrs Ploumen, we will certainly do so, because it is also recommended by the World Health Organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u327	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks, and then to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, from 19 May onwards, the phasing-out period of the emergency shelter of homeless people began;]] [[Whereas families need a structural solution for (threatening) homelessness;]] [[believes that no human should live involuntarily on the streets;]] [[calls on all homeless persons, including non-righteous persons, to be given emergency care as long as there is a form of corona measure;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that homeless parents with children are admitted to social care, inter alia, by identifying them as an extra vulnerable group because of the presence of children regardless of their status of self-reliance;]] [[calls on the government to identify a structural solution to the threat of homelessness of families with children with relevant field parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Simons, Mr Ploumen and Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1255]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u329	Then the second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that threats to scientists and journalists are more common because of their corona-crisis-related work;]] [[Whereas scientists and journalists play a crucial role in a free and open society;]] [[Notes that under no circumstances is physical and verbal violence against journalists and scientists permissible;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with the relevant services, to take measures to optimise the detection of threats and doxing against journalists and scientists and to inform the Court of Justice of the possibility of prosecution of operators,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld, Mr Ploumen, Mr Kwint, Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1256]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u330	Thank you. First of all about Giro555. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that global vaccination against corona is also in the interest of the Netherlands and that many Dutch show solidarity with the consequences of corona worldwide;]] [[Whereas Giro555 has launched the "Together in Action against Corona" action to raise money for health care and medical assistance for corona patients in vulnerable parts of the world;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the Dutch's contributions to Giro555 by organising a national moment of action and to donate a substantial contribution to Giro5555, similar to previous contributions to Serious Request or previous contributions to Giro555 actions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Ploumen and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u331	The Minister made a very important commitment, namely that in municipalities where vaccination is still low, as soon as possible and within two weeks at the latest, a network in the district is really being worked on: as many prick locations as possible where people can find their information and get the shot. I'm grateful to him for that. I know that in the later letter of 21 June he will at least report on the situation and, where possible, need additional actions. With regard to pre-financing, I would ask the Minister to look at all the research that the Minister for Medical Care is going to do more broadly than just this case, so that we are not now in a deep debate about this case and then find a new one. Let the bottom rock come up, indeed. Finally, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of the United States for their commitment to the letter on the transition to the endemic phase, because it is precisely because we are working on a reliable policy, which is also reflected in the law we get for ourselves at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u332	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u333	It has been an exciting debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Medicines Agency (EMA) does not recommend the use of ivermectin as a coronamedicin and that the Dutch authorities severely fined doctors when prescribing ivermectin to corona patients;]] [[having noted that a meta-analysis of 56 clinical studies has shown that ivermectin can certainly be an effective medicine in the early stages of corona disease;]] [[noting that it has not been conclusively proven that ivermectin would not be a good coronamedicin;]] [[noting that doctors always inform their patients about effects and risks when prescribing medications, and that patients themselves ultimately have the responsibility to decide what to do with that advice;]] [[calls on the Government to allow doctors to prescribe ivermectin to corona patients when they consider it useful,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the "hard lockdown" by Prime Minister Rutte is over;]] [[noting that the duty of mouth cap is still in force in public indoor areas, including catering, shops and other private businesses;]] [[noting that from the very beginning the duty of mouth cap was seen as a useful means of influencing people's behaviour, not as an effective remedy against corona, which of course it is not;]] [[noting that masks inhibit normal breathing and give distress to wearers during exercise;]] [[noting that summer is coming, which will increase these dangers, while the risks of corona are naturally decreasing, as for any flu, and the serious health risks for wearers of mouth caps are therefore also increasing accordingly;]] [[calls on the government to lift the cap as soon as possible, but in any case before the beginning of the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, from 19 May onwards, gyms may be reopened under strict conditions;]] [[noting that outdoor sports in groups are also limited from this date;]] [[calls on the government to allow sports in groups also within immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1258]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1259]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1260]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. A special thank you to Mrs Van den Berg. I've heard a lot of topics today that looked familiar to me, but I didn't know "Sacraments Day." I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas basic measures relating to COVID-19 are such as keeping away, wearing mouth masks, frequent testing and extensive source and contact research;]] [[Whereas, like other infectious diseases, COVID-19 will continue to be present among the Dutch population (the so-called endemic phase);]] [[Whereas this raises the ethical question as to the extent to which measures are still proportionate in order to reduce the risk of disease and mortality at this stage in COVID-19;]] [[Calls on the Government, after consulting ethicists and other scientists, to determine what measures are still necessary and proportionate against COVID-19 in the endemic phase, taking into account at least how this relates to the risk of death or serious disease in other (infectious) diseases or diseases;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 September 2021 so that a debate can take place on this matter at the beginning of September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1261]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the directors for the answer in the first term. Then there's the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reopening plan and the associated facilitations are being speeded up;]] [[noting that the number of infections and hospitalisations is falling rapidly;]] [[Whereas the OMT has indicated in the past that the use of mouth caps has a minor effect on the development of epidemiology;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the facilitations, to abolish the obligation to protect the mouth, with the exception of places and sectors where it is impossible to comply with the 1.5 m distance rule,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine has been approved by the EEA for young people from 12 years of age;]] [[Whereas the vaccine is also administered to 18-minners;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt 18-minners from restrictions or exemptions from vaccination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas urgent testing advice does not constitute a test obligation;]] [[Whereas testing is non-binding at all times and is part of the medical secrecy of personnel;]] [[Whereas, therefore, entrepreneurs, managers and companies should not require staff to test and publish the test results;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to protect personnel who refuse to test or publish the test results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1262]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1263]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1264]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u336	I don't think I'm gonna make it. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u337	We'll never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u338	We'll keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u339	Mrs Den Haan, from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that terraces and interiors of catering facilities may each have 50 seats, together with 100 seats;]] [[Whereas the risk of transmission of the virus in the outdoor air is many times smaller than indoors and ideally should therefore be on terrace rather than indoors;]] [[Whereas enforcers must already count both inside and outside in order to maintain borders;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Security Council, to consider whether the capacity of terraces can be increased to 100 within step three while maintaining the limit of 100 per establishment without tickets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one in 12 people aged 80 or over are not coming for the second vaccination;]] [[noting that the second shot is crucial to protect people from the corona virus;]] [[Whereas people from other age groups are also not coming for the second shot, inter alia because they think that one shot is sufficient against the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Government to improve and intensify information on the importance of the second vaccination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Bikker, Mr Kuzu and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1265]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons, Mr Bikker, Mr Paternotte and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1266]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u341	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that vaccination readiness is lower among people who do not have good control of Dutch;]] [[noting that some of the elderly are not coming for their first and/or second vaccinations;]] [[Whereas good and personal information can help in this, but it is particularly important that the threshold for vaccination is as low as possible;]] [[calls on the government to deploy mobile puncture boxes in all areas where vaccination is low,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Kuzu and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1267]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u342	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the corona figures in the Netherlands are developing very well and that nearly 10 million stakes have now been made;]] [[noting that solar studios are now divided into the same group as sauna and wellness and therefore may not open again until step 3;]] [[Whereas solar studios are not public places where people mix up, but offer solo activity without interpersonal contact;]] [[asks the Cabinet to classify solar studios per day in the same category as gyms and to do so in the future if there is another lockdown,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Government still has the colour code of Germany on orange;]] [[noting that in Germany corona figures are much lower than in the Netherlands and moving in the right direction in both countries;]] [[noting that Germans wishing to visit the Netherlands by means of the colour code must submit an expensive PCR test;]] [[whereas there is a great deal of incomprehension about this in Germany, where they have eased measures for travellers in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas next weekend is a long weekend for Germans, where they like to come to our border regions and support the local economy;]] [[calls on the cabinet to immediately change the colour code of Germany to yellow and, in the event of possible bureaucratic delay, instruct authorities not to check Germans for test evidence until the time of implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that the COVID-19 figures in the Netherlands are developing very well and that nearly 10 million have been shot; noting that testing for access has little support for both entrepreneurs and the population and with the rapidly falling covid figures appears to have become superfluous; Whereas a great deal of concern has been postponed in the past year, resulting in additional deaths and suffering; calls on the Cabinet to stop testing for access immediately and to invest the millions released in the healthcare sector, with the primary aim of providing deferred care as soon as possible, and goes to the order of the day. The: This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga. She's getting No. 1270 (). [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1268]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1269]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u343	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons of BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the emergency care for non-righteous homeless persons has been discontinued from 1 June, despite the fact that there are still corona measures in place;]] [[noting that this leads to several hundred people on the streets without any form of shelter;]] [[Whereas many of these people have not yet been vaccinated and have not had the opportunity to do so, due to their early release into the street;]] [[calls on the Government to extend night care for non-righteous homeless persons as long as there are corona measures in force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that code is black in Suriname;]] [[noting that there is a significant shortage of medical personnel in Suriname;]] [[noting that in the Netherlands medical personnel are willing to travel to Suriname for a number of weeks to provide assistance, but cannot afford to do so on a voluntary basis;]] [[Whereas the Surinamese Government cannot afford to pay these people;]] [[requests the Government to pay Dutch medical staff during their work in Suriname,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1271]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u346	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u347	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has taken several corona measures;]] [[Whereas the social, cultural, medical and economic collateral damage is enormous;]] [[whereas the VWS Ministry cannot account for EUR 5.1 billion;]] [[Considering that the VWS Ministry has concluded a contract where €500,000 a day is paid unnecessarily to have test capacity available instead of a contract where each test has to be paid for;]] [[having regard to the fact that the VWS Ministry has, in an amateur way, wasted EUR 100 million in unusable mouth caps;]] [[expresses its disapproval of the actions of the US and US ministers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the carnival industry is faced with an unworkable capacity standard of one person per 10 square metres plus the one-and-a-half metre distance rule;]] [[noting that this capacity standard will ensure that the permissible number of visitors is far too low to make the fair for entrepreneurs economically profitable;]] [[invites the Cabinet to examine whether a feasible capacity standard allows fairgrounds to run within the framework of health risks by corona, and to inform the Chamber about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1273]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u348	I had another motion, but I see I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u349	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u350	Thanks to the Bishop Committee. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u351	That's right. It's our new Rules of Procedure. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The cabinet needs about 15 minutes to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u352	I have just been told that there is a need to vote on a number of motions because they are urgent. I'd like to make an appointment with the Chamber to make that statement in advance. I said that last time too, because that would allow the groups to prepare themselves for it. You have given me the mission with the new Rules of Procedure to increase the predictability of the Chamber agenda. We will facilitate you by e-mailing it again, but know that next time, except of course if a majority decides to do so, I will not allow a vote after a debate if we have not got that. Mrs Van den Berg has indicated that her motion on item No. 1250 on the sacraments weekend is urgent and Mrs Van der Plas has indicated that her motion in part No. 1269 emergency. Mr Wilders also pointed out that one of his motions was also urgent, namely the motion in part No. 1246. Let me take a look at Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u353	Then my motion of censure appears to be part No. 1273 also a good motion to put to the vote now, because otherwise these rulers will be in trouble all weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u354	Then we shall also vote on your motion. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u355	I've filed a motion on part No. 1244 stating the term "as soon as possible." It seems logical to me that this motion should also be put to the vote when it is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u356	So also Mr Paternotte's motion. In my view, these are the motions that... Mrs. Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u357	I am referring to the motions on the border regions and the yellow code for Germany in part No. 1269 and the motion on the solar studios in part No. 1270. It says "immediately."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u358	Then we're going to vote on that in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u359	I understand that there is a majority who wants to vote. I'm fine with that, but I'd like to have enough time to take a good look at it. I'd also like a list of the motions we're dealing with. We need to be able to prepare it properly, and things need to be tuned for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u360	Yeah, you're damn right I did. Are those the motions we're going to vote on tonight? I see that's the case. All right! Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u361	Mr. Chairman. There are still a few questions left from the first term. To Mrs Caroline van der Plas of BBB I can say that the sender of the message was contacted during the debate. A new conversation is scheduled for Monday, along with EZK. Then about churches, choirs and singing. The Minister of Honor is the Minister of Justice and Security. He had a conversation today with the various dome organizations. Of course, the relaxations are also reflected in the opinions they give to their constituents. However, in line with the general advice, we advise not to sing outside the church. It is ultimately up to the churches themselves to take responsibility for this. But choirs outside the churches still have the urgent advice not to sing in groups. An exception has been made for professionals and children up to 12 years old. That's not gonna change either. Mr Van der Staaij had a question about weddings and dinners. The dining and drinking facilities are opened in step 3 with the aim of making dining in restaurants possible again. However, this opening has been subject to a number of conditions, including the requirement that groups should not exceed four, apart from the roommates, of course. Step 3 also opens up most public accessible locations inside and outside. When a wedding dinner is offered in a hall centre, the same rules apply as for food and drink establishments. For this reason, a wedding dinner at a hall centre is not possible at the moment. Unfortunately! That doesn't change. The motion in part No. 1246 by Mr Wilders, with reference to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 1247 by Mr Wilders. I don't think it's wise to do this. A combination of people puts further pressure on compliance with the other measures. In mid-June we will see where we stand and whether it is possible after mid-June. Now we don't have to do this, and that's why I advise against the motion in part No. 1247. The motion in part No. 1252 of the SP. There's no proposal for a salary increase. I advise against this motion. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 1256 van GroenLinks. I can assure the Chamber that the motion for a resolution is the cabinet's policy. The motion calls on the government to inform the Chamber. That does not make sense by the nature of the case. I can't, but what's in the motion in part No. 1256 of GroenLinks state, we do. The motion in part No. 1260 of Forum I advise. Step 3 is already a very big step. The motion in part No. 1265 of Den Haan is about the capacity of the terraces. This is an extension. Why is it an extension? It is an extension, because restaurants do not have an absolute number of 50. That can only be done at a distance of 1.5 meters if it's spacious enough inside. So this would be a big extension. Secondly, it cannot be maintained. I would therefore ask for the motion to be put to the vote. 1265 not to be accepted. Mrs van der Plas has in part no. 1268 filed a motion on the solar studios. Mrs Van der Plas, they will open from Saturday! So I don't know what we'd gain by adopting this motion now. Besides, we can't do it anymore. The motion in part No. 1268 seems impossible to me, but we are therefore already acting in the spirit of the motion. Finally, the motion in part No. 1274 by Mr Van Haga on the fairgrounds. Unfortunately. These are events in a next step. What that step is going to be like, including with regard to standards and everything that is going on, I am not going to anticipate that. Those conversations are going on. So the motion in part No. 1274: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u362	Thank you. I saw that Mr Kwint had a question about his motion and Mrs Van der Plas. Let me give you a brief opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u363	The Prime Minister is dissuading my motion because there would be no increase in salary for officials, but that is no reason to discourage my motion. All we're saying is don't do that until caregivers get a higher salary anyway. We're not saying anything about a planned salary increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u364	There's gonna be a committee, there's a bill, we're gonna deal with it here, so if you're against that law, you're gonna vote against that law. But there is no proposal for a salary increase for political officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u365	You disagree. Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u366	No, seriously. I understand what Mr Kwint is saying. He says: there will be a commission, which could lead to a salary increase. Tell me you're only gonna do that if the care pay goes up. The health care salaries went up. They keep going up, with the space in the oval-convenant. What Mr Kwint wants is an additional increase on top of that, and we do not agree on that now. This is being considered in the broader consideration of working conditions, but that is independent of this motion, because it is about setting up a committee to look at the salary of political ministers. But no decision has yet been taken on an increase. Maybe it'll be a reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u367	I'm very happy things can be arranged very quickly. So I'd like to compliment the Prime Minister and his team for that. I'm in compliment mode today, so thank you very much. I also got apps back from the carnival operators, who are very happy that it happened. That's what I wanted to give the Prime Minister. As far as the solar studios are concerned, I'm withdrawing that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u368	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u369	Thank you. Then the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u370	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a number of questions from Mrs De Vries. First the question about the option for Janssen. I would like to inform you next week about the effects of this. Let me get the answer. First of all, we are talking about the translation of an opinion from the Health Council into the directive. So the question is whether there is room for a choice option in the directive. If not, the trajectory looks different. I'll explain all that next week. Two, there must be surplus from Janssen. We have already made a series of agreements for a number of groups for which Janssen is intended, and we want to keep them as much as possible, as I explained. So we will have to have a surplus of Janssen before we can actually use it. That'll probably be there from about week 25. It is regulated in terms of ICT, but I will explain this next week at the GGD as of 9 June. In short, I shall come back to both the legal and the practical implications. Then Mrs De Vries asks about the access tests in the regions. I could show you a card that could make you really excited, namely: are there any other white spots on the map, except Zeeland, where it is now solved? The answer is that, when the goal of 99% accessibility is achieved in 30 minutes, almost the whole of the Netherlands colors green. Even in the Wadden Islands, a location is then provided. So I guess you don't have to worry. I'll find a way to get you that ticket. Then you can judge for yourself whether it is right that I would dare to say that you are very enthusiastic about it. Then testing travelers. What's going to happen next? I have written a letter with my colleague from IenW in which we point out to the Chamber that there are major legal risks to the choice of free traveler testing. If then your Chamber does not say, after having received this warning, "don't do it," we will do it. We understood D66's motion at the time in such a way that there is a wish to do so in the Chamber. Anyway, we thought: we are not going to go any further than after we have pointed out to your Chamber that there are major legal risks there. I think it is a good thing to highlight that, so that it is not ever said, for example, if after any report at some point, for example, if we are a year further away, that there is a risk of legality: why is there a question of legality? Then we can say: we really pointed that out to the Chamber. I think it's wise to mark that for a while. Then there was one more question from Mr Kwint. I'll do the questions first and then I'll do the motions in one go. Mr Kwint's question was whether what I just said about schools is really true. The answer is: yes, it is true what we have just said about the schools. My tweet checks out. That was the answer. Then we'll go to the motions. That's a shitty pile. You have certainly been productive in this Corona debate. The judgment on the motion in part No. I would like to leave 1243 of Democrats 66 to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 1244. However, despite the impressive list of signatories, I would ask that the motion be retained. I've had the Health Council check it out and expect to come up with an opinion on Wednesday. I really ask, also because there are a number of choices that are surrounded by medical dilemmas, to wait for the Health Council. At least the Cabinet will do that. The Health Council is expected to come next Wednesday with at least the first part of the opinion. On that basis, we will inform the Chamber how to act. The intention is no different. We both share the intention to offer children who have an increased medical vulnerability the opportunity to be vaccinated, but what definition we choose is really still a matter for the Health Council. That is why I would argue in favour of holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u371	If that doesn't happen, she'll be dissuaded, I understand from your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u372	That's always the case, actually, with implication.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u373	That's for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u374	So that is not what I am going to say, because I do not agree with the intention, because I share it. I just really think that we should respect the Health Council here. Then the motion to part No. 1245. It calls on the government to reconsider flight bans for countries where there are worrying variants. I am going to dissuade it here again, despite the impressive list of signatories, actually referring to what I said about it in the first term. I think it is important to note that the OMT always has the space to ask for and advise unsolicited flight bans, but the OMT will of course only do so when necessary from the point of view of the protection of Dutch public health. On the basis of that premise, the OMT has advised precisely that a flight ban is not necessary at the moment, given the fact of a mandatory quarantine. That is why I would really advise against this motion, although, of course, there will always be a possibility of imposing a flight ban. But that is not the issue at the moment. Then change the German travel advice. That is Mrs van den Berg's motion on item No. 1250. With the operative part I can get out of my way: ask the government to consider as soon as possible whether the travel advice for Germany can be changed. How's it going? There are just the colors of the ECDC. On Monday the RIVM will draw up its mind and then the travel advice will be adjusted accordingly. I just think I should read the operative part in the light of what it says. I'm not going to promise that a travel advice will be changed for the weekend. It will be Monday that travel advice will be changed. And when the colors change, it's leading again. But I have already said that I am not going to figure out an event that is taking place in Germany, although we do like Mr Van der Staaij's general development that Mrs Van den Berg has pointed out that there is a phenomenon such as Sacramentsdag. Yeah, that's just useful information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u375	Before you continue, I would like to hear the appreciation of the motion in part No. 1250 by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u376	I can judge Chamber on the operative part. But if I have to read the operative part in the light of what's before it, so it has to be done before the weekend, because Sacramentsdag is coming, and I'm going to dissuade the motion. That is what I think is such a custom order; we are not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u377	That is why, in my view, Mrs van den Berg is putting her motion to the vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u378	Yes, chairman, because Monday's the water under the bridge, the English would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u379	So the motion will be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u380	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 1251. It calls on the government to ensure that test capacity can be rescaled immediately at the time it appears necessary. I'm going to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Of course, I will come back to that in the plan of action that is to come. The motion in part No. 1253 concerns the General Court of Auditors. I really think we should just have the debate on accountability. That's actually what I thought in the Prime Minister's first term. In this debate on responsibility, we can also clarify this a little more precisely. It's all so sloppy, isn't it? For example, of those 5.1 billion, 4 billion was unlawful because of the failure to inform the Chamber in time. So that's not about "oh, you lost the receipts," or "oh, there's money made up on things that can't" or whatever. No, that's about not informing Parliament fully in accordance with the Compatibility Act. I think it would make so much sense to speak a little less sloppy about that than I have just heard and to read back somewhere. But let's just have that debate. I'm not going to dissuade this motion, because it doesn't seem to be customary to do so. It says here: 'calls on the Government to have the General Court investigate further'. That's an instrument your room has. Your Chamber can always request this from the General Court. So this isn't an order you need to make through the cabinet. That's why I won't judge you. I'll add a few things. Of course, an opinion has simply been given in the context of the annual report by the ADR. The Court then gave an opinion. This has led to the annual report and we will discuss it next week. That's one. Two. Audit is under way with regard to the purchase of masks and a number of agreements on them. That is what Mr Van Ark has just referred to. Then there is a broad evaluation of the OVV. That's really an evaluation. And Mr Van Ark has just indicated that she will make a number more specific with regard to one contract of personal protective equipment. In short, I am not going to dissuade the motion, but these would be the comments that give.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u381	It is not for nothing that I said at the time of filing that I am not directly concerned with some sort of massive disapproval of what has happened, but that it is precisely to see how you might be here in the future...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u382	... of learning
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u383	... be able to deal with it in a better way. But let us then agree that I will at least hold the motion until after the debate on responsibility. In that case, all colleagues will be able to see what comes out of it. And that gives me the opportunity to fix the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u384	Yes. And coordination with the General Court itself is always nice, I know recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u385	Okay. Then the motion to part No. 1254. It calls on the government to use the principle that as few people as possible become ill in an endemic situation and to take the necessary preparatory measures to this end. I'm gonna ask you to hold that motion, and I'll explain that. At first glance, you say, "Well, this is a hell of a motion." That compliment may also be made at some point. But at the same time I say: behind this motion, of course, is the whole discourse we know from the debates we have had in the past year. It says "as few people sick as possible." That also means that you will have to take very strict measures for a very long time. And I honestly wonder whether Mrs Ploumen is also prepared to take care of the implication of that. This could mean, for example, that you are still imposing considerable restrictions on all kinds of economic sectors for a long time to come. This could lead to much longer-term support or, for example, bankruptcies, causing people to lose their jobs and so on. The question is whether you would actually be willing to accept the implications of this motion. I think that we should have that debate in the plan of action for the transition from the current epidemic phase to the endemic phase. That is why I would ask that the motion be held until then. That's mid-June.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u386	Very briefly. I'm gonna consider that. But just to put it right: we are not going to have that debate right now, but there is a world behind it and the assumption in the policy that the cabinet has pursued so far is that this is potentially leading to long restrictive measures. But let's talk about that. I think that's excellent. I'll see if I can hold the motion. I'll let you know. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u387	If the motion isn't held, she'll be dissuaded, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u388	Yes. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 1255 van GroenLinks. That is where I can leave the judgment to the Chamber, according to our Secretary of State of the United States of America, although I would like to say the following. "Asking the government with involved field parties for a structural solution for the threat of homelessness of families with children" is really a housing issue, where we will have to work together with BZK and the VNG. So it's not a subject exclusively for VWS. But the U.S. Secretary of State is happy to work on this and I would therefore like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Dan Giro555. I'm not gonna recommend that motion. I was gonna say "he's super-sympathetic," but I think it's silly to say that way. Of course, it's a beauty of an action. But it is precisely a splendour of action that comes from society and belongs there. The cabinet has quite different responsibilities to do exactly the same, namely to do everything that makes it possible for vaccines to be accessible to the rest of the world. We have a very great responsibility there, and we take a very great responsibility there. That Giro555 action is to support other things on top of that. That is fine, but I do not think it is up to the cabinet to support this type of private action. It is also easy of course, because then it is all tax money what we would contribute to it. With this tax money, we need to do it in a different way, for example supporting COVAX, further scaling up production capacity and ensuring that we also use the vaccines we have in surplus in a good way. That is what we, as a cabinet, have to do anyway. Giro555 is just a wonderful private action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u389	I was hoping for more, but that can happen. But the reason behind this is that we see that we will have to reduce covid worldwide if we are to end it. If the Minister looks closely at the operative part, he will see that it is not just "slide with tax money." On the contrary, there is a very clear reference to previous cabinet intentions and to such actions that the cabinet has also supported. Moreover, and this must be addressed by the Christian Democrat in the Minister, although he speaks on behalf of the whole government with one voice, society is encouraged to show solidarity and let the heart speak; Go Give One and that kind of action. I think that this fits very well with the policy of reducing covid worldwide. I can very well imagine the Minister making an effort there and then this answer is a little disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u390	Look, if that's what this is about. I find it a little too easy to say about a private action 'that we are going to support' and then hup, tax money 'that's all money from another person's money to add and then see the role of the cabinet in that. I don't think that's so good. I believe that a private action deserves support because it is a private action and therefore not a public-funded one. What the government has to do is do everything it can to make vaccines accessible to the Third World too. We will. Anything we can do at that point, we'll do it. If I have the opportunity to support this private action and to warmly recommend people to participate in it in particular, then of course I would very much like to do so. So if I can contribute that way, I'd really like to do that. But this motion also suggested a financial contribution as I saw it at least, and I wouldn't think that was entirely appropriate. I would very much like to call on everyone to take part in the action. I will, of course, participate in it myself, but as a private individual. But when it comes to what the government needs to do to make vaccines accessible, we have a lot of other ways to do that. That, in turn, is the responsibility of the public authorities. Then the motion to part No. 1259. I'm gonna dissuade them. Then the motion to part No. 1261. It was signed by Van der Staaij and Paternotte. Of course, that's an exotic combination. We should also draw attention to this. After we have seen a left-wing collaboration before, we see something exotic here. I just can't call it any other way! For Mr Paternotte that is also the lesson: D66 does not necessarily just have to look to the left. It is, of course, interesting that Mr Paternotte will be opening this week. In any case, I am going to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber, because I think it is simply very useful to look very closely at the proportionality of the measures we have taken. We have, of course, had a very special year with a very special legislative history, as Mrs Bikker has regularly pointed out, in which we have taken many measures that you would not want to take at all in a normal time and would not even consider. We have to be careful that we don't find that normal at a time when it's actually not that normal anymore. This means that we must indeed look very critically at the following. What legislative instruments have we considered necessary and should we continue? What would we like to continue so that we have it, but not activated? So that means we don't use it. And what do we perhaps not want to do anymore? That is why I would like to leave this motion to the House. The motion in part No. 1262 calls on the government, in line with the relaxations, to abolish the duty to protect the mouth. Of course that's a bit for the music. We definitely need to get rid of it. But we do this in an appropriate way: first an opinion and then see what can be done when. This also applies to the fact that, of course, the weighting of the burden of the mask is very important. So we're not doing it right now, but we're definitely getting rid of it. I will not leave this judgment to the Chamber. I'm not going to recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u391	I also asked Van Dissel this question during the technical briefing. He indicated that it is intended from his perspective in precisely those places where the one and a half meter measure cannot be applied. So that would mean that if you're walking around in the Chamber Building alone, on your own, and there's no one around you, you can walk without a mouth cap. This applies not only to this Chamber, but also to the Netherlands. So I imagine that you do it in public transport and that you wear a mouth cover in places where you really can't secure that 1.5 meters away, but in other places, according to Van Dissel, the RIVM, an authoritative institute would also be superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u392	The RIVM is a very authoritative institute and Van Dissel is the proud owner of the Akademiepenning. This is without prejudice to the fact that I would like to do it in the order of things, namely first to seek advice and at the appropriate time to see what can be done when. I don't think we're even so disagreeable. In my view, Mr Kuzu also means to say that it is a question of making a balance here too. We will. That's what we agreed when we dealt with the law on the duty to protect the mouth. I think that this question came from several quarters, including Van Haga and Van der Staaij, I remember. This is something you put in a certain situation, so you have to re-examine it every time you extend it, weigh it or it's still proportional. In the context of the Bikker motion adopted in the previous debate, it seems to me that we should look again and again at the epidemiological situation in which we do so in terms of the obligation to cover up and possibly prolong it. The weighting of proportionality follows there too. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting word from the front that I've been a little too flexible at the motion in part No. 1255. That's a shame, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u393	That's the Westerveld motion c.s.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u394	Yes. Of course, we need to talk to these field parties in order to find a structural solution for families. Of course we do. We have allowed this arrangement to come into force in order to ensure that social care also opened up to families who are not actually entitled. We saw a number of families go into social care, but of course we couldn't do that for years. Of course that had to do with the corona situation, in which there was a lockdown and we had to do so. So you don't want to go through with this arrangement. But at that time there were also families who were apparently unable to get housing elsewhere. With those families, you want to get to work. You don't want families on the street. But I cannot continue the arrangement as such. I understand that's what's in the motion anyway. That is why I must correct myself on that point. So I can leave the judgment aside, but then I would like to be deemed not to be in agreement with that part of the motion. Then I can leave the verdict on the motion for the rest. This shows that the Secretary of State is working with these families and with the task of finding a structural solution, with the VNG and with the BZK. But I cannot continue with the arrangement itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u395	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Westerveld. Can she agree with this interpretation? Otherwise, it's gonna get a little confusing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u396	I'm a little puzzled. How can you judge Chamber and disagree with part of the motion? Let me be honest with you, that's complicated for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u397	That is only possible if you accept the Minister's interpretation. Then the motion gets judgment Chamber and otherwise the motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u398	Let's put it this way: I'm just going to look at this formulation very carefully and then I'll contact the Ministry. I find it rather difficult to think on the spot about how I see the interpretation of the motion by the Minister and whether that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u399	I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u400	Then we'll wait and see. The motion in part No. 1263 I advise, but I do it because I don't understand her. The motion calls on the government to exempt 18-minners from any restrictions or exemptions that come in for vaccination. I just don't understand that very well, because there are no restrictions at all on vaccinations, but there is only freedom in vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u401	I will explain it more clearly and perhaps make it clearer, because I also received a question from Mrs Ploumen. The point is that we will not have to create the situation that when a vaccination certificate or QR code is needed when travelling, this also applies to children between 12 and 18 years of age. I also mean access to non-essential facilities, such as museums and cinemas. The point is that this does not apply to categories 12 to 18 years. I will make it even clearer in the motion, but I hope that explanation can lead to a change of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u402	Well, that's actually provided for. That solution is provided for. The alternative is a negative test. If it were to apply, the alternative would be a negative test. I guess this is just not a problem. If there's no problem, you don't have to fix it either, I'd think. That's delicious, isn't it? That saves another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u403	The Minister also knows that DENK's position is that these tests should not be mandatory for children. I will amend the motion in this way, I say to colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u404	Okay, then that motion is deemed to be dissuaded in any formulation. I think that's the safest route. The motion in part No. 1264 calls on the government to take measures to protect personnel who refuse to test or publish the test results. Here it is wrongly assumed that there could be a test obligation for employees. That is not the case, because that is not legally possible. Besides, it's undesirable, so we don't want that. This is another problem that does not need to be solved. That would also dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 1266 calls on the government to improve and intensify information on the importance of the second vaccination. This is about the elderly who, on the basis of the current data, have not yet had a second shot. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. We need to intensify on that situation and on the need for the second injection. The motion in part No. 1267 is about using mobile puncture boxes. I'll leave this to the Chamber. This motion supports very well where we're headed. The motion in part No. 1269 calls on the government to immediately change Germany to yellow. I have just had that dispute with Mr Van den Berg. For the same reasons, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1270 asks to stop testing for access immediately. I would think that would be a shame for all those theatres and for all those people who are going to want to go to the European Championships. That would be a real shame to me, so I advise against this motion. The motion at No. 1271 of BE1 concerns the extension of emergency care. I don't recommend this one. The motion in part No. 1272 is about Suriname. I just need to check that out. I should therefore like to call on Mrs Simons and perhaps the other signatory, Mrs Gündoğan, to hold the motion. In this case, I think that the people who are already there just do it by themselves, not by any means. The people who go there as part of the medical team just have a contract and are paid out by the boss. That payment goes through, so no salary has to be paid. The accommodation there is provided and the transport costs are provided. To be honest, I don't think there's a problem here, but I need to check it out. Imagine that people from very different branches of sport would go to Suriname, then as a cabinet we cannot suddenly take on all kinds of salary obligations if there is no employment. If we do have to do this, this would be extremely complicated in terms of implementation. I hope there's no problem at all. Then we don't have to fix it. If you'd just give me that opportunity, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u405	Then it would be nice to have a reaction to that at least before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u406	Yeah, that's totally good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u407	Let me look at Gündoğan to see if she can agree to this, also on behalf of Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u408	This seems to me to be a very reasonable answer, so I am waiting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u409	Okay, thank you. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u410	Thank you. Mrs Van der Plas had another question about her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not so much about my motion, so I don't know if this interruption is allowed, but I want to know what's going on with those QR codes. Because I had no more interruptions, it stuck. I want to know that, but that doesn't have to be special right now. We can do that one-on-one. I just want to know if people really need that QR code and a smartphone. Or can people use it in a different way than using a smartphone without a QR code?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u412	I think I just explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u413	Is it an idea, because it was apparently a little unclear, to come back to that in writing after all? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u414	Yes, even without a smartphone it can be done; also on paper. The people who are preparing the technical briefing for next Wednesday are going to ask for a very detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u415	Then I think that's enough. Then it doesn't have to be written anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u416	It would have taken a lot of time if the Minister had said what he is now replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u417	Shame. We're out. Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u418	Thank you. We'll clean up for a while and then I'll give the Minister of Medical Care the floor. And then I propose that we suspend for 15 minutes, because we need a voting list. I'll check with the MPs to see if that's enough. Let me be honest: if I had known we were going to vote, I would have taken a dinner break earlier. We can either suspend for 15 minutes or have dinner break. Suspend 15 minutes? Is that enough? Can everyone hang in there? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u419	That's fine, but I'd like to know what motions we have before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u420	Maybe I can read it to you before the minister starts. We're about to vote on the Paternotte c.s. motion. in piece No. 1244, the Wilders motion in part No. 1246 on all the corona measures, the Van der Berg motion in part No. 1250 on Sacramentsdag, the motion-Van der Plas in part No. 1269 on the colour code Germany and the motion-Van der Plas in part No. 1270 on immediate cessation of testing. And the Van Haga motion in part No. 1273 the Minister's disapproval. Those are the motions we are about to vote on. I'll take a look at Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u421	I don't want to rush anyone, but for those five motions, we don't need a 15-minute suspension, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u422	We also need to draw up a list and we sometimes need to coordinate within the political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u423	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u424	An addition: I just said that I would withdraw the motion on the solar studios, but I'm going to file a modified motion. That does not need to be voted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u425	That's the motion on the color code Germany or the other one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u426	No, about the solar studios.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u427	The solar studios? It's not in this list, so it's gonna be fine. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions to answer and a few more motions. I had a little debate with Mr. Kwint about the clinics. In principle, the care that people need falls within the framework of the Health Insurance Act, and then you pay at most your own risk. The health insurance companies contract these institutions or clinics, and indeed they make agreements about price and volume; Mr Kwint also referred to this. A patient does not have to pay the costs he incurs with a contracted healthcare provider himself, as the insurer arranges this directly. However, if you are treated with an uncontracted clinic or healthcare provider, and this can only be done on your own initiative and not on the charge of the health insurance company, you may have to deal with costs, but that again depends on the type of policy and policy conditions. Then there is Mrs De Vries' question about pre-financing; how often that happens. I already indicated that over a hundred orders were placed by the LCH in the period March to May 2020. In most cases, down payment has been made through pre-financing of the LCH. What I can see now is that with about ten orders 100% has been prefinanced, including the deal with RGA. I would like to make it quite clear that I am going to draw this up and I will continue to inform you about it. I'm gonna figure that out, like I told you. Then I'll get to the motions, Mr. Chairman. Mr Wilders' motion for a resolution (Doc. 1248 I advise. I have indicated that the organisation's construction was known to us and that the agreements have been met. The motion in part No. Mr Wilders' 1249 deals with the number of ic-beds. We have, of course, had an exchange of views on this before in the debate: you need to make it flexible in the future and do it with reserves. At the moment the number of ic-beds is scaled down. This is done on the LNAZ indication. This capacity is then used for, for example, catching-up care or regular care. So I advise against this motion, but we are working on the future. Mr Baudet's motion for a resolution I also advise against 1258 because it is the experts who determine whether a medicinal product can be authorised and applied, not me as a government. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u429	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the directors for their comprehensive reply. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-12.u430	We've just agreed to suspend for 15 minutes, and then we'll move on to the votes.
