ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35355, Amendment of the Law on judicial and criminal data relating to the possibility of refusing, in certain cases, to issue a statement on police-related behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has asked a large number of critical questions about the legislative proposal before us. The answers to these questions have not reassured us. On the contrary. Our objection in principle to the law is that this law makes it possible to refuse people for certain, at least to be determined, public functions based on unverified information. In a rule of law, people should be judged by the government on certain facts and not on suspicions. This applies not only to a criminal charge within the meaning of Article 6 of the ECHR but also to other decisions with far-reaching negative consequences, such as the impossibility of obtaining a particular function. What happens when we as a government start charging people for suspicions and signals, we've been able to see in the premium affair. The Dutch Data Protection Authority issued a destructive report last week on the so-called Fraud Signaling voorziening at the Tax Office. On the basis of signals, suspicions and unverified information, people came on a list, with far-reaching consequences. Aleid Wolfsen described the information collected by the Tax Administration as "a collection of mature and green together, of facts and suspicions, from well-intentioned reports to revenge." A description that also fits the collection of police data that can be used on the basis of this bill to refuse a vog. We've been looking at the premium affair and the fraud list that we can't blindly trust the government in dealing with personal data. This applies to the Tax Office, but we have no reason to believe that this would not apply to the police, customs, defence and security services. It is up to us as legislators to define the limits and ensure that legislation does not leave room for stretching the rules. As First Chamber, we have started with a number of pathways aimed at improving our legislative quality. We have a working group that focuses on the lessons that we as First Chamber can draw from the supplementing affair. We have the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Discrimination and we have a working group on artificial intelligence, which has recently organised three expert meetings. All three of these routes are relevant to this bill. I have just said a few words about the lessons of the premium affair. The possibility of ethnic profiling has already been exchanged in the written round, but the government's answers do not reassure us. Where prejudices, whether in the police or in citizens or bodies reporting, over-represented certain sections of the population in police registrations, will continue to work in the number of women who are going to be refused. With regard to AI, the most important lesson is that we as legislators need to understand what the possible AI implications are, that we need to ask the right questions and that we need to set clear limits on the application of artificial intelligence. This is also very relevant to the current legislative proposal. The legal text itself says nothing about which information can be collected automatically and whether and how algorithms may be used in combining and weighing information. The Minister does say that the only thing that happens automatically is generating a hit or a no-hit, but we have no guarantee that a next minister will not see otherwise. We do not even have a guarantee that the implementation organisation will not see otherwise and may find it useful to automate part of the follow-up process. What guarantees can the Minister give that no more will be automated than the "hit/no hit" function? But we're not there yet. This "hit/no hit" function seems very binary and objective, but there is already an assessment here. For example, the Minister writes that registration as a victim or witness will not produce a hit, but how is this guaranteed? I look in front of and with clients every now and then police registrations. I notice that I then get to see short text blocks of registrations in the system. From the context, it must be made clear what a person's role was. How is the automated system going to determine what a hit should be? Are algorithms going to be used for this and can these algorithms eventually become self-learning? Mr. Chairman. I would like to call on both the Minister and my fellow senators to take a closer look at this bill on the basis of the lessons that we are learning in the above mentioned pathways from the surcharge affair and from the point of view of the rule of law and the quality of legislation. I think they should come to the conclusion that we have also drawn: we should not want this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Mr Arbouw has an interruption on your behalf on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u5	I had another question for Mrs De Boer. I let her speak first, because I know her, she has certainly read the reply, in which it is also very clearly stated that we are all equally sorry about the premium affair, let us not confuse that with the proposal now before us. Because if we were to continue your line, we would also have to turn the normal vog procedure upside down now. What I find difficult is that you, with your contribution, are all putting this together and saying: everything the government says is not true and increases distrust in the functioning of our government. So I would like to comment specifically on your speech when you say that the Minister says this, but I don't believe it, that system is probably going to work in the same way. If what the Minister says in the response to the system used for selecting police data is correct, do you agree to this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u6	We have several objections. The first objection is that it concerns unverified data. That has not been remedied. So we see our objections both on that and on the systematic, which has too few guarantees to our liking. Also in the case of the supplementing affair, of course, the question was asked in advance about which systems. It simply appears that implementation services are inclined to stretch out in the context of efficiency. With only a promise from the Minister "it will be a hit/no hit" is the lesson we have learned, and I hope many with me, that only the good intentions to do it in that way are not enough, we must have guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u7	Thanks for the reflection and for the answer. I work for an executive department myself. I have a slightly different opinion and a different feeling about that. My second question is then: we, like the Chamber, almost unanimously voted because the OSF was not in favour of a legislative proposal on this undermining crime. In fact, that is what this bill is about. Do you not think that we should do everything we can to make sure that we really limit ourselves to sneaking into our organisations of undermining crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u8	Yeah, I agree, but I do agree with the judge's interference in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the legislative proposal that, in certain cases, changes are made to the issuing of a statement on behaviour on the basis of police data. The proposal creates in the Judicial and Criminal Data Act the possibility of more intensive screening for functions where integrity is essential and the current screening facilities may be insufficient, or actually insufficient. For example, this bill can use relevant police data not to issue a vog, which should contribute to preventing integrity violations. The PVV is in favour of the bill, although we still have a number of questions for the Minister. For example, the legislative proposal provides for a consultative commission for police data, which has the task of assessing the quality of decisions on applications for a vog and the diligence with which they are made. That's a good thing. In the reply of 15 September last, the Minister stated that the composition of the consultative commission should pay particular attention to the expertise and independence of the members. The advisory committee should include various expertises, such as legal protection, public order and security, rehabilitation, integrity issues and social issues in the field of diversity. Mr. Chairman. This sounds like music to us for the most part. The Minister also indicated that he considered it important that there was diversity in the composition of the Advisory Committee. Can the Minister state this in more detail? Does this mean, for example, gender, racial characteristics or cultural background? And does this mean that the door also opens to PVV's? I would like a more detailed explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group welcomes the measures to be taken to ensure the independence of the Consultative Commission. For example, members of the advisory committee may not hold office with Justis or the police, or be associated with these organisations in any other way. In addition, the members of the advisory committee should make ancillary posts public and should not conflict with the task of the advisory committee. The Advisory Commission also draws up a protocol setting out, inter alia, how it guarantees its independence vis-à-vis Justis. Mr. Chairman. All good measures, yet we still have the next suggestion. It is not inconceivable that consultative committee members should be or would like to take up a political side role, such as a State or a council membership. Does the Minister share the view of the PVV that it is wise for consultative committee members not to hold political positions either? If not, why not? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Minister, further research will be carried out into the causes of over-representation of citizens with different cultural backgrounds in crime rates. This investigation is carried out by the police and science, and if I am not mistaken, the results of this have yet to be published.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u11	I'm curious. Does Mrs Bezaan now think that the committee should or should not be open to PVVs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u12	Well, you know... I do say "political functions," but not every PVV member holds a political function, unlike perhaps your party. But with us that is just not the case. So I'll leave that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u13	Was it a little crazy that you asked if the committee was open to PVV people? I assume you mean that diversity also means not only people with left-wing signatures, but that must be very diverse. Then I get it. On the other hand, I also understand that you say: let's not make it too political. There seems to be some discrepancy between advocated diversity on the one hand, including political signature, and on the other hand to say 'we should not involve political signature'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u14	Yeah, but again, not everyone's a member of a club. Thought is something that is free, fortunately to some extent in this country. That is why I am convinced that not every PVV member has a political function. So I don't really see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u15	Finally, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u16	Well, formally, of course, you're absolutely right...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u18	... but if you say that left and right must be represented in it, that means that you stand up for your political signature, whether you are active or not. On the other hand, you say that we must look out for political influence. That seems to me to be a contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u19	Well, it's all about active influence, let me put it this way. I do not think that people who are members or sympathizers of a political party should always be active.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u20	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u21	Can the Minister indicate, looking at the conclusion that many investigations have drawn in the past that persons with a non-Western migration background are overrepresented in the crime figures, whether this research also focuses specifically on the role of Islam? If not, why not? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated in the reply that the police reliability test would be involved in the assessment of the law which would take place five years after its entry into force. The PVV Group considers a five-year period to be a little long and would therefore like this deadline to be reduced to, for example, two or three years. I'd like a response from the Minister. So much for my first term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I now give the floor to Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I could now make a statement on the terrible situation in which our country is in. I am talking about security and the demands of a democratic rule of law. Let me just refer to a recent article in the German weekly Der Spiegel. De Volkskrant quotes from this in Dutch: "Happy, little Holland "The image that the Germans of their neighbors have not much to do with reality anymore. (...) Cocaine gangs have strangled civil society." Mr. Chairman. The proposal now before us is part of the whole package of measures to combat organised crime. The intention of the proposed bill is that you can refuse a statement of behavior based solely on police records. Then there are no judicial data that are problematic for the applicant concerned. This is a special vog, which is prescribed for a number of functions. These are functions where you have to be more or less extra integrity, you can use force or you have access to sensitive information in the field of public order and security. The new Vog will better prevent organised and undermining crime from getting grounded in public organisations. Mr. Chairman. The objective is good. The question is whether you have the confidence that there will be no unwanted effects, if you observe what that law looks like and what has been exchanged with the two chambers so far. Think in particular of a case where an applicant has to deal with the assessment that his safety risk is, wrongly, too high. Of course, my group understands that if you look at the police records, you might be associated with a possible criminal offence, but your guilt is not established. In the end, it's about that risk assessment. In view of the interests of such an applicant, it must be established that this information is appropriate and reliable. These are exactly the reasons why my group asked questions to the government during the written round. In particular, this concerned the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. The main point of this opinion is to distinguish between the different categories of person concerned. Are you in the police files because you were suspect, convicted, victim or third? And there is a second distinction, namely personal data related to facts and personal data related to police judgements. In any case, that's what the police themselves have to check how reliable information is before it is forwarded to the screening authority Justis. As far as the latter is concerned, the Minister has confirmed that data will only be given to Justis if the police themselves find it reliable. But how will that be recorded, so I ask the Minister. He's been talking about policy rules. I would like to ask him how he looks at an opinion of the Personal Data Authority which has been said: make sure that you put that general assessment framework in the formal law itself. So you have those two situations where you make that necessary distinction. My group relies on the Government's response when you talk about those different types of people involved. So if you're a victim, principal or witness, that never leads to a hit and that data never ends up with Justis. But take the other distinction deemed necessary by the AP: are these facts or judgments? Then the question is, how does that work in practice? The police could, of course, say: we believe that there are police records here which show that these offences are committed. There won't be anything in the way for the police to transfer that data to Justis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u24	Promising words, but I was wondering when I heard you say: we trust the Government's response that if a victim is involved in the first test, this will then be done. But you know as well as I do that police records often do not reveal at all whether someone is seen as a perpetrator, a suspect or a victim. It can also be a mixing form. How is that hit system supposed to get this out? That is what the government says. That's the first round, as it were.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u25	I have read the Minister's answer in this way, but perhaps Mr Dittrich will have to ask the Minister himself directly. I understand that there is a system in which that distinction is made very clearly in those police records. If you don't have that hit, then it's pretty logical that that information doesn't end up with Justis either. But if you doubt that answer more than we do, I would say to Mr Dittrich: ask the Minister that question. Contrary to Mr Dittrich's wish, I would like to ask for that distinction between those facts and those judgments. As I said, nothing stands in the way of the police giving their own judgments, which are personal data, to Justis. The question to the Minister is: how does Justis deal with that? You have quite often in criminal or administrative matters that the police think: where there is smoke, there is fire. For the record, often the police aren't wrong. But if you are talking about a refusal of such a vog police record, as is the case with those other things, then you would like to see more on the table than just those judgments, namely, in a sense, objective facts. Such a refusal is far-reaching. My question is whether the opinion of the AP has also been followed on this point. Finally, Mr President. I thank the Minister with all my heart... No, that sounds a little weird, but at least he answered very specifically the questions of legal protection in the case of the administrative judge who occasionally takes corrective action, where in the past a vog was refused. I do not have any questions on that point. Ultimately, everything depends on the quality of the legislation. In so doing, the position of the individual applicant is at stake. That is what my first speech is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u26	I shall go back to the beginning of Mr Doornhof's speech. He mentioned the objective of the law, namely to prevent organised crime from getting a foothold in the exercise of important functions in which integrity is important. He said that this objective of the law well underpins its necessity. We share the goal, but I still have a question about the effectiveness of a law like this. Perhaps Mr Doornhof has also thought about this. Let us move into the people in organized crime where they want to get someone on such a job. That's the thought I have of that. We may not be talking about those boas, but more about people who really have access to qualified information. Is this organized crime not going to put forward someone who really is of unspoken behaviour and who does not appear in these registrations in any other way? So isn't this how we're gonna organize false security? If we don't say that, if we bring up all the facts in which they're still suspects, then we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u27	That may be a risk which Mrs De Boer rightly points out. I can imagine that you're going to think too quickly of certain officials: they've passed through those vog tracks, so that must be a mustache. But, of course, you shouldn't let sand throw you in the eyes. The question you started with was: can this proposal help to optimize it? My answer to that question is yes. This is separate from the fact that the observations you are now putting forward are justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u28	Thank you. Mr Talsma has the floor. He will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u29	Mr President, thank you very much. When Minister of Justice Donker presented the Law on Judicial Documentation and the Declarations on Behaviour to Parliament in 1953, he mentioned a development in society that made this legislation necessary. "The increase in population and the associated concentration in large centres, as well as increased mobility, have increasingly resulted in citizens no longer knowing one another personally, while the local authorities, except in small municipalities, cannot judge the qualities of their citizens on the basis of personal science." This development led to the fact that it was no longer sufficient for what was previously customary, namely the testimony of "four well-known and credible men," as it was called. Instead, there was the explanation about the behavior, initially to be given by the mayor, and later centralized in the way we still know it. As regards Minister Donker's statement on behaviour, it was essential that "the focal points in society should only be controlled by reliable elements." And so it is, with respect of course, only a small step from Dark to Dekker. Because the bill before us today also refers to the exercise of functions that require a high degree of integrity and where the staff member can be expected to be trustworthy. My group supports the basic tone of this proposal, namely that the exercise of certain functions makes it necessary to dig a spade deeper than only in the judicial documentation. Painful examples in the recent past, including police, customs, and the Judicial Institutions Department, have shown that government and underworld can become interwoven in such a way that government servants were even convicted for participating in a criminal organization. This bill and the underlying theme therefore have social urgency. And revolutionary or eccentric isn't the bill at all. For example, for many years almost all functions within Defence have been so-called "confidence functions," which can only be performed after a security investigation by STUD. And also the fulfillment of many functions within departments, or organizations such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, is only possible after thorough investigation by the AIVD. That really goes a lot further than applying for a vog. My group has two comments to make. The first is that we cannot afford naivety on this issue. Involving police data in whether or not to hand over a vog is not the golden key to an honest government. Continuous and intensive attention is needed for personal and collective integrity. Vogs from the past offer no guarantee for the future. The second comment is even more important as far as my group is concerned, because it concerns the position of the citizen who would like to play such a special role and therefore needs such a vog. We have been concerned from various quarters, particularly as regards ethnic profiling of the reliability of so-called soft data which may give rise to the refusal of a vog and the objectivity of the review. All three of these points I would like to point out. As far as ethnic profiling is concerned, the House of Representatives has asked with broad support for alertness in the Van den Berg motion. My group would like to draw a line on this. After all, this is about protecting the very fundamental rights of citizens of this country. It is a good thing that the consultative committee to be set up should be given an explicit role here. But what role does the Minister for Legal Protection see for himself and for the department for which he is jointly responsible? Assessing the content and weighing of sometimes soft data from police systems will be a major responsibility for the police and for the justice system. In this context, can the Minister indicate whether this task, which is expected to be limited in size, in terms of hard numbers, is being invested with employees who, for example, are more experienced or additional trained? And is the annual report of the advisory committee mandatory course material for employees? Speaking of soft data, we would also like to hear from the Minister how, for example, very burdensome information should be dealt with in the police systems whose origin does not appear, such as an MMA notification, or with criminal intelligence whose reliability cannot be assessed, but which are contained in a report. That is not clear to my group. The fact that the criterion of review has now been incorporated into the law is an improvement in my group's view. After all, it contributes to the necessary objectification. However, we are hesitant as to whether this legislative proposal for citizens makes it sufficiently known and foreseeable when, or under what circumstances, soft information from police systems can be sufficient to base the refusal of a vog. This is, of course, all the more so because of the profound consequences that the refusal of such a vog could have. What possibilities does the Minister see to further increase this awareness and providence? The term "objective" also includes adequate legal protection. There is no doubt that a decision refusing to grant a licence is a decision which is open to opposition and appeal. It is understandable in our administrative system and tradition that the judge is reluctant to review his appeal, but in the opinion of my group this can only be done in the interests of a full and objective review at the stage of views and objections. I would like the Minister's full confirmation that this is being provided for. As I said before, the social urgency of the reason for this law is great. But that is not less true of its careful implementation. Referral procedure, advisory committee, reporting and evaluation underline this joint desire of the cabinet and parliament. To conclude my contribution in the first term, I will return once more from Dekker to Donker, if only because the words of Minister Donker, addressed to this Chamber, are still applicable even after 66 years. I quote: 'However, a responsible implementation will be all the more assured because, in addition to the fact that the draft law already lays down the foundations for this, implementation will be carried out in the light of public access and under the control of the States-General'. I look forward with interest to the Minister's reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. Mr Arbouw has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill adds to the Judicial and Criminal Data Act the possibility of more intensive screening for functions where integrity is very important and the existing screening possibilities are insufficient or insufficient. These include functions involving the power to use force, access to sensitive information in the performance of legal tasks in the field of public order and security or enforcement of the rule of law, or integrity assessments by the public administration. So where abuse can lead to great consequences for our society. Examples are functions at the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Judicial Institutions and Customs Office; think of corruption risks in the port of Rotterdam. We just passed a bill that also deals with access to the port site. That's a good match. Another example is the extraordinary investigative officers. These functions deserve more control than the regular Vog provision procedure, but it goes too far to carry out extensive safety investigations. Mr Talsma pointed that out too. After all, we have only limited capacity there. Mr. Chairman. There are examples in the past where there have been integrity violations, leaks, abuse of sensitive information, in which society said afterwards: "How can this happen? How can someone like that be in such a sensitive place?" And more importantly, "We should have known, if we had seen what was known about the subject!" In the end, this is also about relying on a government, that this kind of abuse does not occur within government organisations. Also recently, we have all been reminded of the facts by sad events and the lesson was that we should not be naive when it comes to the actions of organized crime and the interweaving of the underworld and the upper world. The VVD therefore considers it very important to strengthen the resilience of the government, which is the subject of this legislative proposal. The figures given by the Minister in the reply underline this. In 2020, 20 leak and 36 corruption cases were investigated by the National Police.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u32	I have a question about the reliability of the system as it is proposed. We have been able to read in the documents that the police reserve the right, if a vog is requested, to make a statement on behaviour, and it is known that there is something going on with the person applying for it, not to say to put an ongoing criminal investigation at risk. They'll deliver the dog. Doesn't that pollute the system? So how can you talk about a reliable system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u33	I understand Mr Dittrich's question. It is therefore a question of weighing the interests of society. What weighs heavier at that time? Look, drivers don't do anything but make that weighing. Eventually you have a field of tension and a dilemma where you have to see what is the best and most sensible choice given the circumstances. What I think is very clear, and that is what the Minister also stated in the reply that this is not all about automated systems and robotics, but that this is about personal approaches, in which precisely that context and that consideration play a very important role. If you look at the numbers then that is also possible and can be. Then I think that the tension field you indicate also ultimately leads to the best decision for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u34	But that's the last thing I'm wondering. Then a vog is issued and someone is employed in a position where he should be integrity, while the information is known that he is not, and in the meantime that person is going to work. That is not in the interests of society at all, because in this example that person was put there by organised crime. We shouldn't want that, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u35	It may well be that during the investigation this person is closely monitored by our security services and finally caught in the act and that it might therefore be better to put him to work in order to be able to deal with and punish him properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u36	I had another question. Mr Arbouw points out that there have been many cases where, for example, there have been leaks, in which people have been found not to be integrity, and we could have known that. I thought we should have known that. I did not ask those written questions myself, but I did read them back. Much has been asked in how many cases we could have known exactly, but there is no answer to that. That just remains very unclear. Yes, we all know that there are unintelligible people in places where they certainly should have been. But the point that we could have known and that we would have known if this law had already been there, I seriously doubt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u37	It is not really a question, but you are right. We need to have our dates in order when it comes to this kind of thing, so that you can also make sensible decisions. I have to say honestly: from my own administrative experience, which has been quite a long time, in large cities, I can say that we, as local authorities, often had suspicions and that you try to test them with, for example, Bibob procedures, although that is not quite comparable. If you put all these things together and put all these data together from different agencies, you'll find that we could have known. We actually had a gut feeling, but the question is how hard these data are; that's what this discussion is about. In the second part of my story I wanted to go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u38	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u39	On the other hand, the VVD Group certainly understands the criticism, including from the Council of State. The possibility of rejecting a Vog application, based purely on police records, is a major tool and will therefore have to be used with due care and restraint. Of course, we must ensure that such a review of police data does not lead to arbitrariness. The method of assessment will therefore have to be based on a sound set of criteria. It is therefore important that the amendment of MP Van Wijngaarden cum suis, whereby both Chambers have control over the ministerial regulation that regulates this, has been inserted into the legislative proposal. It is also important that an Advisory Committee on VOG-Policy data be set up, which will check the quality of the assessments and the care with which they are carried out on a sample basis. This raises the question of whether the Minister can indicate how he sees the role and function of that advisory committee. What happens if this advisory committee considers that the necessary care has not been taken in a particular case? It is also a good thing that the opinion of the Council of State has led to the addition of the proposed Article 35a, incorporating the main line of evaluation of vog police data into the law. The final assessment framework, which describes how applications are assessed and how the different criteria are weighted, is therefore important in the assessment of the due diligence of the review. Does the said advisory committee also play a role in the assessment of this assessment framework, as is added to the existing policy rules for assessing applications to obtain a vog? So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group looks forward to the Minister's reply to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u40	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. Mr Recourt has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Flat cops and corrupt officials not only make the fight against the underworld difficult in a practical sense, they also cause the government to lose moral authority. Protecting the integrity of public authorities at the level of implementation is therefore very important, especially at a time when organised crime seems to be gaining ground. The Group of the Party of European Socialists only seriously questions whether this law on prevention is the right solution to this problem. Therefore, the following questions. The first is the question of how effective the proposed extension of the grounds for refusing to issue a vog is. Can the Minister once again justify what return he expects from the law and whether alternatives have been examined that serve the same purpose, for example by extending referees' inquiries? I understand that that's an expensive investigation, but when it comes to small numbers, it could be. How many cases does he expect it to be annual? How many of these cases will this law not be able to be used, because secret police information would then be disclosed? So what happens in practice in such a case? Does that mean the person will be under surveillance? Even after entering a vulnerable position, the police can provide information that there is no need for continuation, I think, because some jobs have been asked to submit a copy periodically. There are also examples of boas whose licences have been withdrawn, as an alternative. For the sake of time, I shall skip the next part because it has already been discussed in the course of the interruption. Mr. Chairman. This law also affects the integrity of the government at another level, the level of the rule of law and the rule of law underlying it. What are the consequences of this law for citizens and the possibility of taking action before the courts? Someone is denied a job only on the basis of unverified information. This information can be used without this person being considered a suspect and criminal law does not provide protection. Legal protection must come from the administrative judge. Here again a series of questions in addition to the written round. What requirements should the information meet? What criteria are being applied? How hard does the information have to be? Could it be, for example, that the underworld is making use of this law by blackmailing people who are uncomfortable? The opposite example just came along, but this could of course also be fine; we saw it with the Tax Administration. What is the required level of knowledge and skill in the assessor of the information at Justis? In anticipation of the Minister's reply, I suspect, on the basis of the written questions, that there is no very harsh, precise criteria to be given in general, and that the law has improved on that, but I am concerned about the precise criteria, and that ultimately the administrative court will set the limits. I would ask the Minister to give two concrete examples of what this law will be used for in order to give us some guidance. Do I also understand that in two ministerial arrangements the conditions for information and the functions to which this law relates come to both chambers with a heavy veil? In any case, I have also read the Van Wijngingen amendment. Is the Minister also prepared to have the advisory committee on the quality of police data introduced by the amendment examined not only the individual cases but also the annual reports on numbers and, if the numbers so permit, also on the effectiveness and proportionality of those refusals? Then there's legal protection in the administrative court. In order for that administrative judge to be able to seriously review and to avoid Kafkaesque situations, all information on which the refusal is based should be added to the file and made public in that sense. How will that work in practice? Is the judge really getting all the information or is it enough with the mostly global and for a judicial test little-saying record of findings, as is now done by the AIVD? If the latter is the case, can the judge have access to the underlying information? Can confidentiality be invoked under Article 8:29 of the General Administrative Law Act? And even more practical: is the job still open if the applicant finally gets right with the judge and, if so, will the government then accept him, knowing that there is a smell on this candidate? What are the chances that a complaint to the structurally overloaded Dutch Data Protection Authority will lead in practice to an unlawful judgment and ultimately to compensation? Is it real that an average rejected candidate is going through all this effort? In short, will the practice not be that who is rejected on the basis of police data alone, simply does not get the job left or right and thus legal protection is a wash nose? Finally, the third level of integrity, the government as the norm writer. This law has distrust as a starting point, where that trust should be. A person, often not even a suspect, has to deal with serious consequences of soft intel. A government that distrusts its citizens organizes toxic consequences. Who is going to put that into practice? People from the neighbourhood of people who the police are already doing structural research on, are most likely to be refused their vog. In that sense, a discriminatory effect is certainly not excluded. This applies to people with a migration background, which we know the police carry out criminal investigations into them up to three times as often as they do. Mrs Bezaan recalled the investigation that is currently under way here as well as for others from the area where the police are looking more frequently. In this way, this bill can only feed the painful and growing division in the Netherlands. Can the Minister outline how he's going to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. Hopefully, we all look with horror at how China is using digital developments to curb citizens' freedom by excluding them from work, services or resources. Of course, we do not want to go that way in the Netherlands. This law does contain that danger. Can the Minister assure us that at present, and especially in the future, there will always be information which is accessible to that person and which is intelligible to them, the final consideration is whether someone is being denied a vog? We have already seen some of this in the written reply, but I am also making it very clear because of the subject this Chamber is dealing with, artificial intelligence, even now in this debate. Mr. Chairman. We want to enhance the integrity of the government. This law seems to affect the integrity of the government at different levels. Therefore, objective and means do not seem to be compatible. Therefore, let us not go down this road and look for an alternative that does work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mr Dittrich has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u43	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group agrees with the aim of the bill that the government and its officials should be reliable. The problem of undermining is serious and must be combated effectively and effectively. Then it is sometimes attractive to know if applicants for certain positions are known to the police and what their trade and walking has been. In doing so, police data may be relevant, but the question that concerns my group is whether the bill's statement on police behaviour does not run counter to the fundamental rights of citizens. Is this bill the correct answer to the problem? Because let me take a little trip to the IRS and the blacklist of alleged fraudsters. Unverified data on civilians were kept there, with disastrous consequences. We have all said: we must learn from that. I read Sheila Sitalsing's column in the Volkskrant last Saturday. I would just like to quote her: "The point is that we need to be able to relate to the government on the basis of agreements. If the government is going to keep secret information about us, information we don't know about, information we can't say 'that's different', information that hasn't been verified, and if the government is going to treat us differently based on that secret, uncontrolled information, then every basis for a just society is lost. Then we can no longer trust the government." Mr. Chairman. There is a certain analogy, because the police must first consider which police information is reliable and hard enough to pass on to the Justis Service. But the mere fact that someone is present in the police systems does not mean at all that someone may have committed a criminal offence. An angry neighbor, an annoying ex-partner may have made reports. Who says these are serious reports? The Minister replied in the written documents, to questions from us and other political groups, that the police themselves make that assessment, the assessment of whether the information they themselves hold is sufficiently reliable. But can we trust that this is done sufficiently professionally? Because nothing human is weird, and neither are the police. Soon, information from a fellow policeman or woman could be regarded as reliable. But we all know that there's time pressure, that we need to act quickly. Staff shortages, you name it, and at some point everything becomes slightly liquid. Then it is difficult to find out whether information transmitted is actually reliable. Then Justis has to go through an objective and subjective test, to see if there is any relevance and risk to the relationship that one wishes to fulfill and whether that is also heavy enough to reach a refusal. Mr. Chairman. Previous speakers have also mentioned algorithms, because what algorithm is Justis going to do with that automated match, the "hit/no hit" question? Did the Ministry ask the builders of that system if there is no discrimination in the collection of that automated data? We all know, I believe, that Mrs De Boer also said that young men of colour are being held up much more often. Perhaps there are also many more reports about them in those police records. That may be right, but it doesn't have to be. So we must be able to rely on that artificial intelligence to work properly. In the preparatory phase and during the period at the Lower House, nothing has actually been said about this part of the legislative proposal. I therefore invite the Minister to discuss this in detail. Mr. Chairman. In my interruption with Mr Arbouw, I raised one element, namely a limitation of the system. That's about the fact that if someone asks for a statement about the behavior, then the police can think, "hey, this is the subject of a criminal investigation and we don't want to disclose that information, because that's not in the interest of that ongoing investigation." Then it won't be told to Justis and that vog can be delivered. That is understandable in itself, but it implies that a vog is issued for someone who may not be in integrity and who can pass all kinds of data on to the undermining crime. We don't want that. My point is that the system also pollutes itself. My question to the Minister is exactly what this is about. Does that happen often, according to the Minister's estimate? And what can we do about it? I ask that the bill be passed. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the legal criterion. I would like to quote the Minister in the debate in the Lower House. I quote. "This legislative proposal concerns the police data relating to the applicant himself. Therefore, data on persons from the vicinity of the applicant shall not be provided, even if they are his relatives." End of quote. Somewhere else in the pieces the example emerges of someone visiting a motorcycle gang, but not himself, I suppose, being a member of it. Otherwise, of course, it's not such a complicated case. But if you have such a situation, someone comes to visit a motorcycle gang, but isn't there a member of a bike gang himself? Or, according to the Minister, is there no information on the applicant himself relating to criminal offences? Or are the neighbors, the social environment, still involved? It seems a bit contradictory to me, so I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. In questions from D66 and other groups in the written round, it was also about innocence. Then the Minister says that there is no criminal charge within the meaning of Article 6 and that this innocence pre-emption does not really play. The Minister could say that, but you would only be a citizen who wants to have such a vog in order to perform such an interesting function, and then you will be rejected on the basis of gossip, backslide, unreliable information! We know from other files that, unfortunately, this is not an imaginary situation. The question to the Minister is therefore whether he would like to go into this again in detail, because this is a matter of concern to my group. The subjective test focuses on the circumstances of the case. Justis will refuse to do so if Justis concludes that in the specific case there is a risk for the performance of the function, while refusal is also proportionate. There is a very large, wide margin of discretion in this respect, which offers very little guidance to the citizen. As a co-legislator, we need to look here at whether a legislative proposal is really concrete and sound. I see that great margin of discretion and ask the Minister to go into that again. Mr President, I am almost at the end. I had raised the following case in the written round. What if someone doesn't get a vog because he's being linked to a criminal offence in those police records, which means he's gonna lose his job? Then there's the criminal case, where the judge says he's innocent and is acquitted. Well, then he must have missed that job on the basis of something that was in that data. How can someone like that get a story from the government? Is there a possibility of compensation? The Minister replied: When Justis made that decision, the information was correct at that time. But that doesn't help the citizen, of course, because he's fishing behind the net. He could have been hijacked by an angry neighbor based on all sorts of alleged contacts. I still think there should be a way to compensate. Does the Minister still want to talk about this? Mr President, the D66 Group sees quite a few objections to this bill. I hope that the Minister will convince us of the usefulness, necessity and, in particular, the legality and feasibility of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u44	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Arbouw van de VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u45	I actually have the same question to Mr Dittrich as I asked Mrs De Boer. Mr Dittrich began his speech with a comparison with the premium affair. Later he weakens that by saying: I see some analogy. Now, if you see that this bill is really custom-made and that the weighting that takes place every time is really tailored to the man, don't you think that comparison is actually apples and pears?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u46	No, I don't think so, because these are unverified data on which the government bases a particular decision. The citizen has no knowledge of this at the time. He hasn't been able to say that none of this is true. If it is rejected, there is a certain procedure, but that is, of course, also in the other dossiers. Then we come back to a whole other issue, namely how difficult it is for citizens to defend themselves against the government and find a good social lawyer who can assist him in such a procedure. It's very complicated. So, as a citizen, you're still lagging behind. As a co-legislator, we need to see whether a law is balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u47	When it comes to the single citizen versus the government, I can think along with you. But I think the system, the use of certain algorithms and that kind of thing, is really incomparable. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this in a little more detail when replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u48	I hope so too, because that whole "hit/no hit" system is the first hit that is being made. We have already discussed in an interruption that the Minister says in the documents: if someone is a victim or a witness or something like that, it is immediately being sifted out by that system. But if you look at police records, there's no telling what the role of someone is. I've seen a lot of police records as a judge in my life. These data are a conglomerate of facts, opinions and possibilities. That system can't select that at all purely. So it's not that simple at all; that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u49	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Janssen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is the purpose sacrificing the means? That is at the heart of today's debate for the SP Group when it comes to the legislative proposal before us. After all, who can be against better safeguarding the integrity of officials, or functions that require a higher degree of integrity, especially when we look at everyday practice? So I don't have to spend much time on the target. My group supports the objective. But is the means proposed the right way of achieving that goal? Should it be the right means, is it sufficiently secure? During the preparation of this bill, the investigation of the Dutch Data Protection Authority into the Fraud Signaling voorziening van de Belastingdienst appeared. Mr. Arbouw, I'm gonna come back to the supplemental affair one more time. Maybe the colleague can save it for a while; then we'll do it in one go. But that was a shocking report. I cannot separate myself from what we are discussing today, because it is about learning lessons. I quote from the press release of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. "On the blacklist were all sorts of signals of alleged or proven fraud, mature and green, both inside and outside the Tax Office, both reports to Report Crime Anonymous as well as reports from citizens and companies that click, or reports from other government organizations. But sometimes it was also recorded that the municipality had requested someone's income data. This had nothing to do with possible fraud, but that person could still be blacklisted." One of the major shortcomings identified by the Personal Data Authority in that report is that that blacklist contained incorrect and unupdated data. Sometimes a person got the label "frauder" without it following thorough investigation and found that the information was not up-to-date or that there was no fraud. If so, this was often not noted in the system. Does this also apply, for example, to acquittals or to those who appear to have nothing to do with them? Is that gonna end up in the system? As a result, people often remained unjustly in the system as an alleged fraud. In addition, signals were stored for far too long. It also turned out that the black list was insufficient security. Too many employees had access to that information. Signals could easily be exported to Excel. Processing of personal data by employees was not logged. If the Minister hears this, can he rule out the fact that the system proposed by the cabinet in this legislative proposal is not going to have the same defects, with all the consequences for citizens? Today's bill also deals with the registration and interpretation of soft information; Mr Doornhof, CDA colleague, spoke about facts and judgments. And then this is done by organisations that are already overloaded, such as the police, and that will have to carry out thorough investigations under pressure of time. Then it is not just about investigating what it says, but about those who have to write down the information in the system to the police. Those people are under pressure. That's very close. For example, Glenn de Randamie, the rapper Typhoon, was arrested in 2016. Why? On the basis of the combination of a young age and a brand new luxury car, in which his skin colour also played a role. I'll come back to ethnicity later. That happened with suspicion: drug money. And that wasn't the first time for him. If that gets into the system five times, with that combination and the relationship between drug money, can the Minister still say that it is not possible that this will form the basis for the information on which that animal will be refused? Mr. Chairman. Carefulness takes time. My group has doubts as to whether there is time to ensure care within the system. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. In line with the above, my group is also concerned about how citizens can defend themselves when they are faced with an objection based on the present law. Here too, we need to learn lessons from, among other things, the premium affair. If Justis intends to refuse the issue of a vog police data, the applicant shall first be sent a refusal intention stating the data giving rise to the intended refusal. My question is how detailed and complete these data are. Is that more in detail or more in general terms? If you want to be able to defend yourself, you need to know exactly what is being thrown against it. If Justis insists on his rejection, then the question is how independent that objection has been dealt with. Is there a full look at this, or is there a marginal view of whether this refusal could have been achieved? Mr Talsma asked for this too. If there remains a persistence, then the administrative judge comes into the picture. But that board judge is also a marginal judge. All relevant facts and documents shall then be submitted to the Administrative Court, including the information which led to the refusal of the Vog police data; I have read the reply. The administrative judge then assesses the decision on objection, i.e. the decision on the refusal of the vote. However, this also concerns a marginal test, where the judge assesses whether, on the basis of the available data and in the light of the rules applicable and the assessment framework for the Vog police data, Justis has been able to reach the negative decision and whether that decision is sufficiently justified. There is a great concern for my group about the effectiveness of legal protection. A further lesson from the supplementing case, drawn by the caselaw itself in the evaluation report on the role of the judges in the supplementing case, is this one. I quote from the report "Find justice at the courthouse" of 8 October. "The administrative judge must actively examine the relevant facts and personal circumstances in each dispute, discuss them in session with the parties, and take into account the outcome of that investigation in his assessment. The perspective is not so much as whether the justification of the facts given in the decision can be accepted. The question is whether, having regard to the claims made by the plaintiff, the content of the file and the active questioning of the parties at the hearing, the facts put forward by the plaintiff give rise to a different light on the case and give rise to further investigation (application of investigative powers) or a statement of the merits of the action." This is different from what it says in the response, namely: the right test is marginal. This is a lesson I think we should learn. How does the Minister view this reflection of the judiciary on the issue of fees and the role of the judges in it, if we apply it to the present legislative proposal? Because the minister wrote very simply in the reply: the administrative judge is marginalising. A chain of marginal reviews, with only marginal consideration, does not help the citizen. This is evident from the past and from the lessons we must learn from it. Does the Minister remain of the opinion that the marginal test in the administrative court offers sufficient legal protection, given the experience I have just outlined, or does the Minister learn lessons from this? Mr. Chairman. Concerns have been expressed about the passage of ethnic profiling into this bill. I just did that myself. I would urge the Minister to go into this again, because the law now proposed must not, of course, codify unwanted and unlawful practices. That could be this bill. I therefore agree with the questions raised by my fellow Members. Mr President, concluding. There is a legislative proposal before us, the aim of which is recognised and endorsed by my group. But my group also has very serious doubts about this, not only because of the ability of the government to learn, looking at recent history, but also because of the ability of the government to draw lessons from it and the question of whether we can translate those lessons into practice. I have the feeling that if we could have learned all the lessons we have learned so far and in recent months, this bill should have been different. I am therefore looking forward with interest to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u51	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 4.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u52	We will continue with legislative proposal 35355, Amendment of the Law on Judicial and Criminal Data in connection with the possibility of refusing to issue a police-data-based statement in certain cases. We now need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you very much for dealing with this bill today and also for the way in which it is done: good content. This is an important legislative proposal because, like the law that was adopted earlier today with such broad agreement in your Chamber, it can contribute to the fight against organised and undermining crime. In recent years, several incidents have emerged which have made it clear that not everyone can withstand the pressure exerted by organised crime. This affects the integrity of our institutions when we talk about, for example, customs officers passing through containers or facilitating them, or staff in prisons helping to smuggle in contraband. It is precisely in those places that you want the most reliable and honest people to perform these important functions. Because where there is shocking integrity violations, they not only undermine the trust of the department or organisation concerned, but also undermine the trust of people in our rule of law, whether we have organised it well and are able to keep the underworld out of it. Mr. Chairman. With this bill, we aim to prevent integrity violations, the commission of criminal offences and the influence of public administration by organised crime. How do we do that? Very briefly, because we will of course go into the depths. We make it possible to strengthen the screening of individuals for very specific functions, for which a high degree of integrity is required. For this screening, we arrange that, in addition to the standard search of the judicial documentation, as we already know, police data can also be used by default. Relevant police data may form an independent grounds for refusal to issue the statement of conduct. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to answer all the questions that have been asked today along five, six blocks. I would like to begin with the usefulness and necessity of these new instruments. Second is, how do we deal with the use of police records? I note that, above all, there are still many questions and concerns in your Chamber. Third: the risks in the field of ethnic profiling. How carefully can we set up this procedure? Fourthly, what means are available to those involved, such as applicants and citizens, to defend themselves? How exactly is that going? Then, as a fifth block, I would like to briefly consider the functions to be identified: what exactly do we do this for and what does the procedure look like? After that, I've got a block left. Mr. Chairman. I will start with the first block: the usefulness and necessity of this bill. One could say that, when it comes to combating organised crime, the widely known 'prevention is better than cure' is all the more true. The police data contributes to preventing organised and undermining crime from getting grounded in our government organisation. We do this by introducing a heavier screening for vulnerable functions. Why? If we can use police data that are up-to-date, they help to detect relationships with, for example, organised crime. For example, if we compare police data with judicial information, it may take some time for police information to be known in the judicial documentation system, for example because an ongoing investigation has not yet been completed. This is something that you can well imagine is a very relevant fact, especially in the case of vulnerable customs posts or in the case of the RIECs, which are set up at regional level specifically to combat undermining crime. Vog police data complements existing screening tools for cases where those existing instruments are also applied. You could say it's heavier than the standard regular vog. But I would also like to say immediately that it is less difficult, for example, than the police screening for police officers or the AIVD screening that is applied to trust functions. I think Mr Talsma had a very good point when he said: what we are going to do with this bill is not so revolutionary. Police data are also used in such screening, also independently, in specific functions where the integrity of those involved is so important. Mr Recourt asked: what about effectiveness? The vog police data fills the gap between the regular vog, which you could say is too short, and the far more far-reaching forms of security investigation by the AIVD, for example. Vog police data will be requested in cases where existing screening tools are not appropriate or insufficient. We are trying to mitigate the risks of undermining and organised crime. You know that Justis can now also in some cases include police data, on top of the judicial documentation, that is to say just for colouring. The experience of Justis with regard to those police records has also shown that the use of such police data can have added value in assessing the presence of potential risks for society. Moreover, for the purposes of implementing the Vog police data, it is essential that organisations pursue a broader integrity policy in addition to this form of screening. That is also what we are seeing in the review and in the applications for the functions in which we intend to apply this. I don't have the illusion that this is some kind of magic bullet that you shoot the problem out of the sky. It will take more to ensure that you bring in honest people of unspoken behavior into your organization. Reference research, to which Mr Recourt referred, can be extremely useful as part of that palette. At the same time, I do not think that reference research closes the gap that exists now, where you want to know more about possible involvement of subjects, of individuals, of criminal acts and criminal organisations at the time when it has not yet come to a criminal conviction, because that is what we are talking about, of course. As far as I'm concerned, it's and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u54	I'm gonna keep going at this point anyway. The Minister has a point when he says that the whole criminal investigation has been initiated, but it has not yet come to judge by the judge, and that is why it cannot be considered. But now, on the basis of police data, the vog also goes on that route where it has never been suspected at all and therefore the whole criminal law is not in the picture. How does the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u55	It may not have come to a formal suspicion, but it may have come to a formal suspicion. At the stage of the suspicions, there is no conviction and therefore no registration in the judicial documentation system. That is relevant to the question of whether you want to give someone a green light for working in such an organization. So we are at the preliminary stage of the conviction, where there is relevant police information that I think is important to involve. This could be at the stage of a formal conviction, for example in the context of an ongoing investigation. That could be in the preliminary stage of a possible conviction. It's finally up to the judge. But it could still be at the stage before that. It is, of course, ultimately up to Justis to weigh the nature of that information and the hardness of that information to see if there is such a risk here that such a dog should be refused.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u56	Yeah, and maybe that's one of the problems. When there is a suspicion, criminal law already comes with protective means. A suspicion must be justified. You have to harden it in a way if you want to use coercive means. Then you must have permission from the judge commissioner et cetera again. It is all conditional on the hardness of the information and the urgency of the measures. You don't have any of that when this isn't on the agenda and just Justis is testing it. This increases the risk, all the more so because with Justis, there is no prosecutor behind the decision buttons. I don't know who's in there. Shouldn't you make a distinction between those two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u57	This is, of course, always a balance of interests and a risk assessment. I agree with Mr Recourt that we are not at the stage of a pre-trial or non-criminal conviction. Justis doesn't do that. Justis is checking to see if there's any information that indicates a possible risk. Then there's a balance of interests. That risk or the impact of that risk is greater with very specific functions. If someone wants to pass the coffee around here, it is less relevant, but if someone has a very specific function in the assessment of Bibob applications, for example, it is another case. I think we should distinguish those two. This isn't criminal law. Justis also doesn't judge whether someone is formally suspected or whether the information is so heavy that it might come to a conviction with a judge. At that preliminary stage, a district attorney could do that work. A risk assessment is being considered. I'll make the comparison anyway. Failure to deliver a vog is not a conviction. The same goes for the regular standard-vog. There too, of course, the consequence is quite large. Someone who has made a big mistake can get a rejection for his vog, which has consequences if they can't work in education or can't ride the taxi, while everyone deserves a second chance. So it's not hard to believe that someone's gonna go wrong a second time if they're gonna do that job. There too you can see that with the system as we have invented in the Netherlands with those statements about behavior, we do not say "someone is guilty" or "someone is going to commit a second crime." We make a risk assessment and a balance of interests. I think that you should look at many functions where it has come to a conviction, but you can also see if there are softer data in these vulnerable functions. Is there any police information that suggests involvement in criminal acts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u58	Mr Recourt, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u59	A dog isn't a conviction. That's right, of course. In practice, many examples come along of young people who cannot even do an internship and at least see their desired future permanently thwarted as a result of not getting a vog. It therefore has very significant consequences, especially for the much larger group of young people who are already often behind the grid and are usually less helped by the government than young people who have it in a different way. That's where the great concern lies, not the very specialist, highly trained functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u60	Thank you for this question. That also gives me the opportunity to immediately take away a misconception. Our biggest challenge is that a lot of young people think that they cannot get a vote and therefore do not apply. We have whole campaigns where we point out to them that they should, because having one conviction does not mean that you do not get a vote. It's the screening that's very important. It's not a matter of "you have a conviction, so you don't get a vog." No, you get a hit, even now at the standard-vog. Next, an assessor comes from Justis.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Especially among young people, it looks at how long it's been. Of the many requests we receive, only a fraction is rejected. Only we see that this has become a very big thing in the minds of many young people. So here too I would like to say that the presence of police data does not automatically lead to the refusal of a vog. There is also a whole review, which looks at the frequency, the nature, the topicality of data, etc. On this basis, that risk assessment can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u61	I think this is at the heart of what we are talking about here. There is no question of a conviction in the fox, because a conviction is made on the basis of very hard facts. We agree on that. So we're not talking about the vog either. It's about the risk assessment. I also find it dangerous to carry out such a risk assessment on the basis of subjective soft information, let me put it this way. I understand from the Minister that it is mainly intended for cases that have not yet been brought before the courts. When it comes to serious, undermining crime, I see that point, because that is about trials that take years to reach a decision. My first question would then be: why is it not limited to that? Why don't you just say we're restricting it to the information from cases that are still pending? So not all reports of Crime Anonymous or all kinds of other soft information. That's one question. But then there is the other really fundamental point, and that is that the assessment that is now being made of the risk is initially done by the police, whereas the police is precisely the authority that has the suspicion. Then Justis will judge on the basis of that police information and information from the defendant's lawyer will not be weighed. So there's no weighing. The assessment shall be based only on one-sided information. That's a risk to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u62	It is a conscious choice to go wider than just the question of whether someone is a suspect in an ongoing investigation that may lead to a lawsuit. You don't necessarily have to be a suspect in a formal sense, because sometimes there are other indications in a broader palette that point to this in police records. That's even softer information. Also in police records is a bit harder information and a little softer information. It really matters if the police can check a report from someone who shows up at the front desk or calls with a complaint or a report about someone. Sometimes they falsify. Then the police registers will be adapted to that. It is also important to keep the police registers up-to-date, otherwise the police cannot do their job properly. Sometimes it can't be verified. Then it sticks. It's not some kind of N=1. One clue is never enough to say: here is really more going on. In my opinion, I have also stated in the written reply that it should always be seen in a broader context. Again, it becomes different when officers also observe personal things in function. A cop can visit or search and find something that's definitely wrong. This also says something about the nature and the hardness of the information that is found there. That is why it is so important that we do not say that police records in which someone is listed as a possible perpetrator, in relation to a criminal offence, are automatically grounds for rejecting a vog police record. The broader context of the nature of the information must always be considered, in other words: the degree of hardness; the frequency, whether it is a single notification or mutation or that it is more frequent; the topicality, whether it is something that has been playing over the past few weeks or months, or something from years ago. In the end, such a risk assessment is made in that entire palette. Here again the comparison with the standard-vog. I really think Justis is capable of that. There are people who are trained and supervised to make that kind of risk weighing. Even with the standard-vog, the simple fact that someone has a registration in such a judicial data system does not automatically result in rejection of a vog. This risk assessment is always made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u63	Yeah, I get that, and I'm not questioning that either, only they do it on the basis of the information they have. In the ordinary vog, that is hard information from an assessment that a judge has looked at. What is at issue here is that it is information that is only from the police and that cannot in any way have been contradicted or refuted by the person concerned. I am convinced that they are doing this with the best of intentions and perhaps trained on it, but they are doing it on one-sided information. In my view, this is also a key issue: that there is no reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u64	I recognise the point that it is done purely on the basis of police information, but it is not true that there is no reply. What we are doing with this new form of vog, this new screening method, is that we have given additional possibilities to the subject, precisely in the field of legal protection, in the possibility of defence. A final decision shall not be taken immediately. A proposed decision shall first be submitted, on which the person concerned may submit an opinion. This is an additional step in the appeal and appeal procedure which applies in any case to administrative law and which applies to the standard Vog. Two: the Police Data Act also contains possibilities for people where, for example, incorrect information would be in the registers. Then there are whole procedures, legally laid down, for what you can do. You can get that information. You may make a request for correction. Additional checks are also provided at the base or source data to ensure that it is not made on unreliable or incorrect information. On both sides, we have also tried to give extra care in the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u65	Mrs. De Boer, third?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u66	Well, perhaps we will come back to that in the field of legal protection, because I do not see that happening so quickly in practice, certainly not for a boa, for example. That track has been forgiven long and wide before you get this far into the trajectory. If you're a suspect in a long-term sensitive investigation, because you're talking about organized crime, I don't think you can get access to the full police records at the time that investigation is under way. It is in theory beautiful, but in practice it is not as beautiful as it might seem "as leaky as a basket" I don't want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u67	You have a point. The Police Data Act describes exactly when you can and cannot correct. On-going research, that's something else. On the other hand, here comes the balance of interests, and here's the next thing. I believe that we, as a society, should be able to support specific sensitive functions, in the sense that if people are still under investigation and are suspected in an ongoing criminal investigation into serious criminal offences, we should be able to say at such a time: you can do a lot of jobs, but not there, sorry. The standard vocabulary is now really lacking in this, while a very specific research, such as an AIVD screening, may once again be too heavy. That is why I think this is an appropriate instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u68	In the documents and again, the Minister gives an example in which he says: if there really is a suspect, we need to have more possibilities in these kinds of functions. That also makes sense, but in this case it is police records where a judge has not yet given judgment. They're not judicial records. That's a collection tray of ripe and green, all kinds of reports that belong to those police records. This could be a very strong suspect but also, for example, a young person who has been held up a few times and whose data is included. It is precisely with that other category that it is so complicated that it is all unverified data that can be used against someone. So, in his reply, would the Minister like to go into that particular category?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u69	That's what I want to do, but then I'm about to end up in the next block, and that's about the reliability and the use of those police records. Mr Dittrich says that it is a big collector with everything mixed together, such as soft and hard, which makes it look like it isn't saying it, but that might be the suggestion that others might have, as if it were some sort of random thing. Legally, there are all kinds of safeguards to ensure that police registers contain reliable information. And quite frankly, that is incredibly necessary. We all think that the police officer's core business is to keep an eye on the streets in his uniform, but in fact, that core business is increasingly gathering information and data in order to fulfil the public order function and the criminal function properly. So that too is being worked very hard to ensure that what is in police records is, by definition, reliable. That does not mean that it has to be immediately true or tested by a judge. I agree with Mr Dittrich. But it's also a bit different than some sort of collection tray of all kinds of random facts you've ever heard from someone. It's really done a little more solid than that. Let me take the example of standing. A mutation can be made from the standing position, but a standing position is never a mutation in relation to being a possible suspect. So that's really something else. That will never produce a hit that will be useful for Justis' assessment of whether or not to assign the vog police data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u70	It is a bit difficult to ask a follow-up question, because you also refer to another part of your speech, but in your answer you are actually going to anticipate it yourself. So let me ask this question. You spoke in reply to Mr Recourt's question about a campaign on the common Vog and that these young people do call for that vog, because even one conviction does not mean that you do not get a vog and can therefore qualify for a certain position. But this vog is about police records and it may be that someone appears in these police records several times, without a conviction or a concrete suspicion. Could you also tell those young people as a target group of that campaign that they should continue to apply for that vog, even if this bill had been adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u71	Yeah, I think that's a good point. Mr Talsma asked about the expression. I'll talk about that later. Part of this is to ensure that the elements of scrutiny, the nature, frequency and so on, which we have incorporated into the formal law following the opinion of the Council of State, are also developed in the follow-up to the policy rule. That is also public information, as well as there is information for the testing of standard vocabulary. That helps, of course. What also helps is good public information about how Justis arrives at a judgment on whether or not to reject a vog, the standard-vog but also the vog-police data. As far as I'm concerned, we can do the same there. Again, a simple stand-up, where nothing strange is noted, we know all that; that happens to you and me in traffic probably also leads to a mutation, but never in relation to being a possible perpetrator or suspect of a criminal offence. That label is relevant, though.I'm going to say a few words about the labels for the hit that has to come up and for the information that is provided to Justis. So there really must be more to it than just a standing position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u72	Dittrich, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u73	This means that a young person in a particular urban area who has been held up perhaps ten times, without any suspicion, can simply apply and receive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u74	Yes. Just a theoretical case. Someone who is held up and checked very often, but there is never anything going on and for the rest leading an exemplary life, should have no problem getting a vog police record. Then we're actually already at that point of reliability. How do we deal with police records now? Reliable does not always mean that a police detail is also correct. For example, a declaration will have to be examined first in order to determine whether it is justified or not. Reliable however means that the police data must comply with the requirements of the Police Data Act. This means regularly updating, updating et cetera, et cetera. Perhaps it would be a good idea to keep walking, because both Mr Recourt and Mr Doornhof asked questions about facts and judgments: how do you deal with them? The application for a regular vog shall be checked on the basis of hard information, convictions, on the basis of judicial documentation. Information from police systems is less harsh by its nature and sometimes not at all hard. It is in all cases information whose accuracy, you might say, has not yet been established in law. Only, for a limited number of special groups and functions within the security domain, we think that the use of that data can be justified. This concerns not only police data which have been fully delineated and which, in a manner of speaking, are ready to be presented to the prosecution as criminal records, but also less hard police data, for example declarations whose substantive investigation has not yet been completed. They could be of interest to Justis' assessment. However, police records must always be properly recorded. This is a requirement of the Police Data Act and is intended to prevent the provision of data which at that time is clear that they are clearly incorrect or not complete or no longer up-to-date. That requirement wants us to keep working on updating and keeping the police register reliable. Let me give you some examples. The police can only provide data that led Justis to a hit, to a flag, during the automated hit/no hit search. Only information about the applicant in his role as a suspect, and then not a formal suspect in a criminal investigation, but in a wider sense, leads to such a hit. Those roles shall also be recorded as such at the time of import. Let me give you an example. There's a complaint against the applicant about a specific criminal offence. After registration in the police system, the police will examine the content of the declaration. Until this investigation is completed, the applicant is a suspect. If searched under his name in the "hit/no hit" system, this results in a hit. If it appears from the substance of the investigation that the declaration is unfounded, this is also mentioned as such in the police system. The data will therefore be updated. As a result, the applicant is no longer a suspect. Will now be searched under his name, then it will no longer lead to a hit. That was a small example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u75	Like I said, I've looked at police records. What strikes me is that the system is not so clear at all in reporting suspects, witnesses or reporters. For example, you see a mutation. I would just like to mention one case that I encounter regularly, namely the fight between partners. Ma'am says the gentleman has a gun, too. I can imagine that might be relevant information. If there is no further report, that information goes into the system, but I do not think it goes into the flags "suspect" and "detector." Your statement that the system has already been set up in such a way that these flags can very well be linked to being a suspect, whether or not in a formal sense, is not in line with my experience. Well, at least it's different than I've seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u76	Of course, I don't know what you saw. I'm going to be assured that it is. Otherwise you can't do it automatically, because then you have to read all those lyrics. I can imagine that from the text of a notification not always... But there's data behind that, too. In the concrete example that has just been set, there is someone who says she is a victim of domestic violence or a gun threat. It's about identifying someone who would have done that and carried that gun. Then the police record the personal data of the reporter on the one hand. It is then a victim or a reporter and is not labeled as a possible suspect, whereas the person in question might be. Those labels are attached, making it possible not to use as a hit when searching the system that times you come up as a reporter or victim. When it comes to suspects in the broadest sense of the word, it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u77	I kind of have the same question. If I remember police records correctly, it could be about a café where many people are involved. One says that man started hitting and the other has a nosebleed, or I don't know. I can't say it's a storage bin, but it's not clear who's the suspect now, who's the witness and who's the victim. The Minister says: yes, but then there will be no hit. That's the problem. Then there's no hit, but it's not clear at all what happened. If such a dog is applied for and there is no hit, then such a person could get the job, when he might actually be a suspect. Of course, it could be exactly the other way around. That is because there has not yet been a follow-up to the judicial investigation and there has not been a trial before the courts. So here's the problem. They are not hard data, but they can have far-reaching consequences. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u78	The question is whether a riot in a café would be enough to refuse a vog police record. I doubt that. Maybe it's just a little bit of what cafe it was in and who was involved in the fight. Once again, this is a matter of nature and frequency in relation to the risk involved. But if the police are to draw up a report, then the police will want to know.That's also important for follow-up work.Who did the hit and who got the hit. There's always someone with a black eye. Of those, you could say, "That's a victim." But maybe the one who punched you in the face, too. Then you'll be labeled as both victim and potential suspect. This will always be done to provide an outline of the situation and to provide content, as found by the police or reported to the police. If the dog is applied for at any time, the situation can still be so diffuse that even when reporting or observing the police it is not yet clear what someone's involvement in a specific crime is, so that they have no label at all or are not yet in sight at all. This will then not be able to be involved in the granting of the statement of conduct. But then I come back to the fact that this is not the silver bullet either. There may also be criminal offences that have simply been committed and which have never been reported, which the police do not know about and which have taken place in total secrecy. That may be very serious, but it cannot be involved by Justis. If you do have that information and clues, but you still don't have a conviction, you can include them. I think that is the crux of today's debate. Do you think that information can only be involved if a judge has said "this is also someone who is guilty and should be convicted," or do you think it makes sense to involve them on the basis of somewhat softer, but reliable and relevant police data for these functions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u79	That does raise the question of how old those police records could actually be. For example, such a massive fight could have taken place two or three years ago, but the police have been busy with all kinds of other things, so no witnesses have yet been heard or anything. Then we'll have that dog applied for. Do the police have time to track down people from three years ago to find out exactly what happened? This is a major problem for the feasibility of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u80	I'm really more optimistic about this too. With this bill, however, we will extend the look-back period. We extend them for these specific functions. But here too, Justis has to look at a number of elements when assessing that risk. One of these is actuality of data. Suppose it's something that happened during your student days, for example a riot in a pub; I'm just saying something. You've been around 25 and not so much has happened since then. Justis doesn't come across any mutations. Then Justis will say at such a moment: we see this one fact in the register, also in relation to a criminal offence, but we do not see sufficient reason to say that this is a risk so that you cannot work in the DJI, in the prison system. That is different when it comes to different signals of a more recent nature, perhaps also in relation to criminal offences that have more relationship to possibly been corrupted in such a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u81	Finally. The criteria are now set out in Article 35. Does that include actuality? I was just trying to look it up, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u82	I'll check that out and I'll come back to that in the second term. I thought nature was called frequency, but I don't have that all ready here anymore. I shall come back to that, and also to the point of topicality and how it is taken into account. I'm going to find out specifically for you. Mr President, I have one more example, but I have a bit of a doubt in my mind to bring that up, because I notice that this is causing a lot of discussion. On the other hand, I think it is good for legal history as well, because it gives us an indication: how heavy is it and how should it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u83	I just wanted to say that I just found the article. It does say: actuality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u84	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Well, I thought I'd be better off with that. I might mention another example, namely a report against the applicant on domestic violence or nuisance. We were just talking about a report where the police said that nothing was going on here. Then it's more obvious. When reporting domestic violence or nuisance, it is often less easy to determine whether they were justified. For example, the police can't always just walk in and investigate. In such cases, the person remains suspect or subject until further investigation has been carried out by the police. And if he's wanted in his name, that will lead to a hit-report that can be given to Justis. As long as the substantive examination has not shown that a notification or declaration against a person was unfounded, such information shall lead to information that may be eligible for submission to Justis. "But," I say immediately, "comma": it is up to Justis to look at the notification or declaration in the right context. Justis will then know that the accuracy of the declaration or the notification has not been investigated by the police or has not been established as such. That's also part of the information Justis gets at the time. It is important then whether there are more such notifications or declarations, which is related to other information and how old the declaration or notification is. If there is no other information, if the single notification or declaration is not followed up, Justis will always contact the police for further information before such information may be used as a basis for a refusal. Mr. Chairman. How can we ensure that citizens do not suffer from gossip or backslapping? The task of the police is to ensure that notifications are properly recorded. That ensures that reliability. So it also means that if there is a false declaration, or gossip and back-clap, research can show that this is the case. The registers will then also be mutated, modified and supplemented. And the data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer required. As long as the police records have not been deleted, they will in principle be given to Justis, but then you will also be able to get back into all of them and then Justis will have to weigh up the nature of that information and involve in his assessments. In other words, Justis will have to look at the usability of that information and assess it in its context. What about social conditions? Mr Dittrich asked to be involved. The Judicial and Criminal Data Act does not provide for the possibility of a formal environmental investigation in the case of a Vog application. This bill will not change that either. For the purposes of assessing an application for a Vog Police Data, only police data relating to the applicant shall be provided, and thus not information about his or her friends or relatives. Police records may show that, for example, the applicant visits a motorcycle gang his friends are members of. In that case, those data may also be relevant in the assessment of the Vog application. But that will always be provided in such a way that it does relate to the applicant, without having to provide the personal data of those involved with that motorcycle gang. Whether this information leads to a refusal depends on the frequency and nature of the data. For example, if it is a one-time visit, it will be a little less heavy than if someone is systematically spotted by such a motorcycle gang. Of course, it really matters. Then there is the review and the assessment of data. Mr Talsma and Mr Recourt asked if you should invest that with more experienced employees. Justis is a service that specialises in screenings and that also gives rise to a certain professional pride and craftsmanship. This also comes back in all attention to training and training. That is no different for this new type of vog assessment. The evaluators at Justis get all kinds of handles to arrive at careful and well-balanced decisions. For example, the four-eyed principle is applied in the manual evaluation of vogs, which means that if an assessor intends to refuse a vog, a second assessor is always involved for a second opinion. It doesn't depend on one person. For issues that raise doubts or are complex in nature, Justis has weekly internal consultations, so that this is also addressed in the form of intervision and several colleagues are involved. With the help of all the above, the Justis staff member shall examine, on a case-by-case basis, whether the police information received about the applicant demonstrates links between the applicant and criminal offences that may pose a risk to the performance of the duties. What we are doing with this legislative proposal is that, for this particular form of vog, where police data can lead to a refusal of the application, we also set up the advisory committee. It makes recommendations in a general sense, on the basis of sample surveys. This, too, will provide lessons in order to improve and refine these screenings. Mr Recourt asked how it was going after taking office, where new facts were revealed. In such cases, the police, in cooperation with the State's Attorney General, will have to weigh up what is actually about ongoing investigations, which are more important. That is one of the grounds for refusal on the basis of which the police can say: we do have data, but we do not give it to Justis, because it destroys an ongoing investigation. At that time, the search interest is decisive over the possible risks to the society of one's being allowed in such a place. I think it is important to note here that, in my view, this will only occur in exceptional cases. So not every ongoing investigation prevents the provision of police information. Sometimes a suspect knows there's an investigation going on against him, and that's fine. Unless it's about the heavier investigations, which are also in the highly confidential secret phase. It is therefore reasonable that the person concerned, where he is, should be extra closely monitored by the police. That's actually the essence of such an investigation. I believe that Mr Arbouw referred to this as well. I do understand Mr Recourt's inconvenience, namely that if that information is not given, someone will get a vog police record. Then he ends up in such a vulnerable position, and then what? What if it comes to a conviction? Now a concrete conviction can always be a reason to resign, especially with the heavier convictions, if one so to speak has to sit for a longer period of time. Apart from this, however, there is also a specific focus on continuous screening or periodic screening in certain sectors. I know, for example, that Customs would like to use this new way of screening. But they say, on top of that, that we do not just want to do this once, when accessing the job; we actually want to do that periodically or continuously. This possibility exists, even in the case of the provision of standard vocabulary. It may also be applied here in the future. That's possible, but it's not in this bill. In my view, that is what Mr Recourt was referring to. Finally, the reliability. A number of comparisons were made, for example with the child care allowance affair and with the critical report of the Dutch Data Protection Authority last week on the Tax Administration. Let me say here: I do not think these comparisons are valid. Why? At the Tax Office the criticism was: "Is there a legal basis?', "are there guarantees?', "is it transparent?', "are data kept up-to-date?" et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. That's a very sad question where you can really say that there's reason to worry. This is where we take care of things very neatly. We provide a legal basis. We guarantee legal protection. We ensure transparency. We provide reliable police data on the basis of this bill but also on the basis of the Police Data Act. For example, we are talking about retention periods and grounds for destruction. That way, we'll sort this out nicely in my eyes. Then there were very specific concerns about ethnic profiling and discrimination. I have also discussed this in detail on the other side, a little bit led by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Let me say this about it. Ethnic profiling is a form of discrimination, and therefore prohibited. The police are working incredibly hard to keep that out of the door and to ban it, including in their own actions, for example by professionally controlling working according to the legal framework. This is a subject where there is a lot of tension, but which is constantly being addressed, in training but also in everyday practice. The same applies to citizens' signals about discrimination. They need to be properly examined. How do police data, as a possible consequence of ethnic profiling, work in the number of rejections of the vog police data? I can tell you that there is very little chance that possibly ethnic profiling will unintentionally lead to the refusal of a vog. Justis only refuses a vog if there is suspicion of connection to a relevant criminal offence. We have just talked about it: a single stand or control that does not involve a criminal offence will not in itself lead to a refusal, even if it occurs several times, because someone will not be labeled as a possible suspect. I agree with you that the vog police data is a screening tool that affects the applicant's privacy. The refusal can also have major consequences. That is why we have also introduced additional safeguards for the control and quality of decisions, for example by setting up an advisory committee for police data, as provided for in Mr Van den Berge's amendment. I will ask the advisory committee in the annual reports, which, on the basis of the checking of precise cases, are concerned with quality, to also consider any signs of discrimination, should these occur unexpectedly. Mr Recourt, Mr Talsma and Mr Janssen asked how it worked. We see here and there overrepresentation of groups of individuals with a specific cultural background. I think that's a fact we shouldn't beat around the bush. Mrs Bezaan also asked for this. Look at what's in our prisons, what's in police records, what's in the WODC's investigations. There is a strong overrepresentation of people with a Dutch-Moroccan background and people with a Dutch-Antillian background, just to name the two leaders. They are also strongly overrepresented in relation to people with different migration backgrounds. This is not due to discrimination. Other factors can also play a role there. Then I'll get to the vog police records. There is little chance that a person who is more often held or controlled by the police will unintentionally be refused a dog. Justis will only be able to refuse a vog if there is suspicion or involvement in a relevant criminal offence. In the case of a single arrest without the presence of other police data, therefore, we are talking about an arrest; that is a different matter from a standing posture. If there is no follow-up, Justis always first contacts the police for further information, before such a data is possibly based on a refusal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u85	There's something I can think of. I was at a follow-the-money meeting last Monday. It was all about fraudulent or seemingly fraudulent transactions with dividends and the recovery of dividend taxes. The suspect lived in Bloemendaal or a similar villa municipality. I was just thinking: are the data of the FIOD and other investigative services also being equally involved? Or is this really just about police data in the narrow sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u86	That's a good question. I must remain guilty of the answer to that, but I will come back to it in the second term. Apart from that, I believe that violence in the streets or in the café should be taken as well as police records on possible fraud or white-collar crime. Then there is the next question and concern, which I understand very well in the whole discussion and context of the childcare allowance: what about algorithms and artificial intelligence? No artificial intelligence shall be used when filing requests for vog by Justis or when collecting information from police registers. Just as formal: what is artificial intelligence? These are particularly complex algorithms that keep learning so that they can become intelligent. That is not being applied here. What is applied is an algorithm. But that's an algorithm in the most simple sense of the word. It's a goal tree. This is used to extract the information from police records. That's the "hit/no hit" system: does anyone come across, yes or no? If not, a dog can be delivered quite automatically. That's even an automated process. If someone does occur, the second question is what role they appear in. If it's a victim, it's okay. If it's a possible suspect, there's something going on. Then that information comes up and the node at the police station gives that information to Justis. The assessment of that information is human work. So assessment of the nature, context, actuality and the overall picture is really the craftsmanship of the evaluators at Justis. It's not an automated, let alone a self-learning process based on artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u87	I would very much like to believe the Minister that there are no plans to do so. So it's not organized now and there are no plans to do it either. The question we have to ask ourselves, including from our responsibility as legislators, is simply whether the legislative text prohibits it. Is it possible that a next minister might think of the implementation organisation on the basis of this legislative text: perhaps it is not such a crazy idea to let go of some artificial intelligence, because that makes it much more efficient? I didn't read in the legal text that I shouldn't. That's where I'm concerned, too. I believe the Minister is right when he says that it is not going to happen now and that it is not going to happen for the next two years. But what about in five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u88	Mrs De Boer has quite a point. This is not explicitly stated in this legal text. But this processing of personal data also takes place in a broader legal context. The use of algorithms and artificial intelligence is not free. You have to comply with the GDPR. For example, the GDPR requires that sensitive information should always involve human intervention and so on. So, apart from the fact that there are no plans and that I really want to promise you here, there are safeguards in the laws and regulations that prevent that from being automated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u89	But then I think that a comparison with the affairs we have had in recent times might be appropriate, because in principle those rules also applied there that it should not be allowed but happened. Look, we can never get 100% certainty. I realize that, but I think that from the lessons that we have learned and that we are still learning, we should draw the conclusion that we must give the maximum guarantees that it is not going to happen. I don't think they can be given here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u90	I think that Mrs De Boer and I differ on this. When we look at the child care allowance affair, we see that things were also happening that were not allowed to happen and that were contrary to laws and regulations. That is the limitation of laws and regulations. You can say "you can't," but you haven't yet arranged that it doesn't happen automatically in practice. Unfortunately, because of course it is terrible what happened there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u91	When I ask the Minister as a representative of the government if he wants to ensure that refusing to issue a statement on behaviour is always done by well-informed and expert people, who always have insight into the data used in the processing of this data, how does he answer this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u92	This feels like a trick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u93	No, it's not a trick question. It is the operative part of a motion that I had in preparation and which is in line with what Mrs De Boer said. The data processing as you describe it now is fine. You can just look back and the final decision is made by people. But we want to have the guarantee of how things are going in the future, that people don't think "hey, there's gonna be a nice program and we're gonna do it automated," after which the final decision is no longer with people and people no longer have an insight into what's going on automated. So my question is whether this remains human work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u94	So on the first ear, but I want to see the motion in full later, I think it sounds good. My only point is: let me give you a quick look at the fact that a very large part of Justis is fully automated. Anywhere where there is no hit, it goes on immediately. That's why within two days you get your vog on the doormat, while it stands for a period of six weeks, unless the systems are not working properly, as we have unfortunately seen in the past two weeks. That part is really automated, but when it comes to a possible rejection and an assessment, it's always human work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u95	Again, it is not a problem that it is automated, because that is the time, but the time is also that it develops and continues. That is what the question is looking at. Will the final decision remain human work and people will continue to understand what the computer does?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u96	My gut feeling says yes. I don't see one-two-three how you can automate that, and if you could, whether you should want to. I think that this kind of radical decision must always involve a human being. If that is the thrust of Mr Recourt's motion, I suspect that he will receive a favourable opinion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u97	Then we wait; that might save an old-fashioned motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u98	Two more questions from Mrs Bezaan on that advisory committee, which, of course, has a role to play in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u99	Let me turn to the previous point. The Minister said quite clearly that there should be a presence at Justis human work, but there could also be an artificial intelligence program on that data when the police are collecting the data. That question also applies to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u100	Yeah, but there too, I'd say it does require an explanation. In my view, I have already indicated this in the written round. The issue is not that information is automatically transmitted at a hit, for example because names of others have to be taken out et cetera, et cetera. There too, a human intervention will always be needed in my view. Two more specific questions about this advisory committee, which must do its job properly. I have already said something about it, including diversity and what can and cannot be done. It is not prohibited in advance for politicians to sit on an advisory committee. I am concerned that secondary posts should not conflict with the task of an advisory committee. That is why we are looking mainly at functions that are incompatible or incompatible. In any case, a political function or colour is never a selection criterion that should play a role in this. Regardless of the political party, individuals can sit on such an advisory committee, but it depends very much on what other functions they perform. This also says something about the wider diversity, and that is true not only for this advisory committee but for everything. We have had a nice discussion here recently about the law to make more work of diversity. Male, female, cultural backgrounds, age et cetera, et cetera, that's what I mean by diversity. Here too, we never look at political colour. We can't ask that either. I find it unethical to let that play a role in the selection. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to legal protection. I have already said something about the careful consideration. If Justis concludes that there is a risk for the performance of the function, if refusal of the dog is proportional, only then the dog is refused. But of course it may happen that the applicant does not agree with that and then there will be a whole sadness that I would like to give with it, but I have the impression that there is a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u101	Back to the new block, because I found the questions on legal protection very well answered by the Minister in the written round. If you'll allow me to talk about the block about the risk assessments and the data on which you base them. I said: if you look at the opinion of the Personal Data Authority, you will see that there is an interest in distinguishing between facts on the one hand and judgments that may exist within the police organisation on the other. Now, in general terms, you have said a few things about this, such as the professionalism of Justis and the nature of the data to be weighed. But can you tell me a little bit more about it? Is it intended that these objective facts will play a more important role and will also be separated from the judgments within the police themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u102	I myself find the terminology used by the AP somewhat uncomfortable. Because what are facts and what are judgments? What does a fact say? Is a fact by definition a hard fact on the basis of which you can determine what? When a cop makes a report, there are actual elements in it. Someone came to the front desk and said he was beaten by his husband. That's a fact, that's what happened. At the same time, you cannot say that it is immediately a harsh judgment, because it is the perspective of a victim that the police also have to investigate further to see if there is a basis for it. Facts do not necessarily provide hard information that can automatically be counted hard in the assessment. Just as well that a judgment, for example when it comes to tracing certain signals, is not necessarily soft information. Suppose a cop has to visit a house regularly because every time the neighbor complains and that this is something that happens every once in a while. If the police officer says "I haven't been able to establish it, but my professional judgment is that something is going on here," then you can say that this is a judgment, but then it might be more important than the fact that someone comes to the desk and does a single signal. Therefore, my more extensive argument: always look at police data in relation to the role someone plays and also at the nature of those police data. Is it an observation of a cop who may have written it under oath in the minutes, or is it a third party reporting it? Is it a single fact or is it a notification in a whole series of notifications? That's actually the construct where Justis has to come to his assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u103	I find the answer satisfactory, though, where the Minister speaks of human work and he says that professionalism within the organisation should be used to assess all that data. Yet what the AP writes down in its advice is not something that just falls out of the sky. This has to do with the directive and with how you judge it in case law, administrative or criminal law. The fact that you are more or less equalising that and then depending on that professionalism may be a little too easy for me. I do not know whether we should discuss this entirely now, and perhaps this is not the time, but I would like to ask the Minister whether he can also see that this distinction is recognised in the broadest sense and that it is important that Justis always highlights this distinction in individual assessments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u104	Yeah, I don't know if it should go exactly along the line of that terminology, which is facts versus judgment, but it's about constantly looking at how hard information is. When we talk about facts, what is the relevance of those facts and what exactly do these facts say? When is there a judgment and whose judgment is that? Is that a judgment based on personal observations of an agent in function or is that a judgment based on signals from others? That kind of context information is indeed relevant to the overall judgment that Justis will have to make. Mr. Chairman. I got into legal protection. It may be with the new vog that Justis is at some point about to refuse a vog, a planned decision. Then there is the possibility of presenting a view. In doing so, the applicant may submit documents which may shed another light on the case. Think for example of positive probation reports, letters of recommendation, diplomas, you name it. It is not a question of proving his or her innocence. The applicant shall be given the opportunity to explain why he disagrees with the intended refusal of the animal. I would like to stress that a decision to issue a vog or not says nothing about the applicant's guilt in committing a criminal offence. The Vog only gives a ruling on judicial and police data at that time, in consideration of possible risks to society. Mr. Chairman. Recourt indicated: legal protection in practice, how does that work? If you want to use that, does that have anything to do with it? After all, if you get a rejection, the job is already forgiven. I see that a little bit differently. An opinion may be submitted in the event of a refusal. That is a process that should actually be possible quite quickly. That view could also be taken into account in the final decision of Justis, giving the applicant the opportunity to make his or her claim. The same applies to the objection phase. In the objection phase, too, this can be done relatively quickly and it can be examined with an employer whether you can wait for that objection phase. Otherwise, it will be as soon as you appeal or appeal. You often talk about longer periods of time, but that is already the case with the standard-vog. There is also the possibility of appeal and appeal, but an employer will not say: we will keep the vacancy open until then. What about the possibility of defense? Mr Janssen said: if you are faced with such a refusal, what are you fighting against or against? What information will you receive as an applicant? The intention to reject it states that, in view of the offences found, Justis sees a risk for the purpose of applying for a bird. It includes the intention to reject it, but also the information on which that proposed rejection is based.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u105	Is that all the detailed information or a public-friendly summary? Let me put it this way. Is it really one-on-one the information as it is in the system? That is the first question. My second question is this. The Minister previously indicated that the Police Data Act also provides a route to request data. Is it pointed out in such a planned rejection that that route can also be followed, so that you can still do so? And my third question is: if it becomes so complex, is there also funded legal aid available for it, or do you have to figure it all out yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u106	I'll start from the beginning. You will receive the information that Justis has also received. That is the information on the basis of which the rejection took place. That could be a selection of the information Justis got. You'll get the information on the basis of which the rejection took place. This is different from the information contained in the police records, because that information is processed by the National Unit. He gives that to Justis with explanation and cleaned up from third parties. It would be weird if the applicant really got the raw police data, because that could directly affect the privacy of third parties. So you get the information on the basis of which a decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u107	I'm going to go further on this point. It is also possible that you get a selection of them, because Justis has received more information. So all you get is the selection that Justis says: this is the one that jumps out most for us, so that's what you get. But what lies behind it may have played a part in weighing up that selection that is put forward as a justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u108	I understand the point. Let me come back to that in the second term, because I have to check it out. I'm just starting to suspect that that means that you're getting the information that Justis had, too, on the basis of which they come to a decision. It was actually my own interpretation that that is a sub-selection. I'm gonna go check that out. So basically you get that information. That was the first question. I've lost the second and third questions. It was a legal aid thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u109	That was all the way to the end. That always sticks, so that's good. The middle question was about the Police Data Act. That's also a route. That's how you indicated that you could pull those police records. That's another route. My question is whether this is referred to as part of the procedure if there is a proposed rejection. It is said that you can also request police information via the Law? My third question was: if it becomes so complex that you have to go on multiple routes, is funded legal aid available as support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u110	Let me start with that second point. If anyone thinks that the information is incorrect and factually incorrect and can prove it, then I can imagine that someone is being reminded at such a time that you can go to the police to request that information and what the procedures are for correcting it. I want to check that out, and I'll talk to Justis about that. Finally, you had a question about legal aid. Then we'll go a little bit more into the system of subsidised legal aid. You will normally only be eligible for this at the appeal stage, i.e. not in the submission of views, nor in the submission of objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u111	Maybe I have a comment on that last point. This is just one of the lessons we had to learn from everything that played around the supplemental affair. People have had to do it themselves for too long and they have not received the right support in time in the process to avoid worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u112	I understand that point. Especially in very specific cases, you can imagine doing that at the objection stage. The rules of the Legal Assistance Council provide for exceptions, so that you can not only rely on them, but also on objections in some really complex cases. This was also the case a few years ago in the case of childcare payments, as a rule, in the policy rules. We have now taken a few additional measures to add some more advice, to give more guidance and so on. At the same time, if standard legal aid is granted at the objection stage in the millions of government decisions that take place on vogs, WOZ valuations, the bpm and you can imagine what that would mean. That really requires a more fundamental discussion about where you should and where you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u113	Finally, Mr President. The Minister is now making it very broad. We are talking today about a law that the Minister says all the time: it is of limited size. My question is therefore about this law and not about the WOZ et cetera. My question really is about this law. It intervenes in people's lives in a profound way in a refusal. You can expect there to be sufficient support for this when it's so complex. Anyway, I will return to that myself in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u114	Let's talk about legal protection. I think it is a good thing that we have chosen the possibility of presenting a view as an intermediate step. I think that's what the law's asking for. In the written reply, I read, and I find that complicated, that this whole administrative procedure is only about Justis' assessment. Did Justis make a proper assessment based on the information provided by the police? You can submit an opinion on that. You can appeal and object to that. The Minister now says: I think this can be done fairly quickly, so that it can also be an effective remedy. In addition, I think the problem remains what happens when you say that those data are incorrect or incomplete. Or you could say, for example, that they should have been withdrawn by now, because, look, I have an acquittal. Then you have to follow the route through the Police Records Act and I can say it's endless. If you just request access to your data, it takes six weeks for you to get an answer. That's an official answer: we'll keep it for another six weeks. Does the Minister agree with me that splitting the assessment by Justis and correcting the facts undermines the effectiveness of legal protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u115	Mrs. De Boer is right it's a longer route. Suppose you end up in that situation and you really have a point. That's really annoying. I have just made a whole speech about what the police are doing to ensure that there are no errors in police records. Of course, where people work, mistakes can always be made. Only, the consideration to be made here is: is it possible to correct quickly? If that is the case, good research must be carried out. Otherwise, it's gonna be too easy to get things out of the police register. So there is a very extensive procedure for that. So that can't be fast. Then there is a balance of interest, where the question is whether you are willing to say: we take that for our hood. These are very specific functions. Someone can work anywhere, but if there are serious indications of involvement in all this in police records, then he cannot work at Customs in a crucial position or in the prison system in the ebi. That's what I'm gonna do. In addition, I believe that, with the additional steps we have taken to improve the quality of legal protection, such as the views and the advisory committee at the back, we have done everything we can at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u116	I understand it also applies to boas. That's a lot more. Take the following concrete example. Suppose someone was acquitted by the Supreme Court. There's a letter from the state's attorney's office saying it's become irrevocable. As the system of law is now in place, a view cannot be taken into account, as this is based on police data as the police have provided it. Even if you just have a hard proof that it's not true, that shouldn't be looked at. Is that right? Or is there some kind of detour that you can actually sneak a look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u117	This is also what I'm going to check for you in the second term, because then we can definitely pin it down in the second term. I would say that this can be done at the very stage of the view. After all, at the point of view, you offer Justis the opportunity to go back to the police to see exactly what happened, just as well as I gave a number of other examples where Justis always goes back to the source on the basis of a police detail to see what exactly is going on there. The phase you are referring to is that Justis nevertheless comes to the conclusion at such a time that there is sufficient information and sufficient data. Then you enter the route of appeal, appeal and appeal. Then the question is where a judge can test. The judge will then, in particular, examine the bases and whether they can bear the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u118	I'd appreciate it if you could come back to that later. I understand what you're saying now. The assessment based on an opinion is actually less marginal than the review that the judge can do, and obvious errors in police registration can be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u119	I'll check it out for you, because I want to be sure myself. The submission of an opinion is, of course, something other than the review by an independent third party, either an appeal committee or a judge. It is precisely intended to offer an opportunity to take a different look at the matter. A final verdict will come later. Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen asked: how independent is the decision on objection, because after the opinion there will be a final judgment? In my view, that decision is independent enough. It is of course done by the execution organisation, by Justis himself, but always by others, so not by the handler himself. That does not deviate so much from the objection procedures that other large implementing organisations have. Suppose you don't come out in the objection phase either. Then you appeal. Mr Recourt asked: what is the judge going to see? It shall be given the same as the applicant, i.e. all relevant documents, including the data that led to refusal. These include judicial and police data, the original decisions and the decision on objections. It is therefore not, as is the case with the AIVD, a report of findings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u120	Here's what I'm gonna do. I hear the minister say that the police are making a selection in practice. The police aren't covering the entire file. I think that is quite right, by the way. The police are making a selection. On the basis of that selection, Justis is judging. And let's say the judge thinks, especially after the child allowance affair: I'm going to test a little more intensively because I think that summary of the police is too thin and I want to know what's behind it. Can the judge then say on a certain ground: we're going to look into those police files?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u121	No, you can't. The judge will review the decision made by Justis. Justis doesn't have the underlying information either. Suppose, Justis says, we don't think this is strong enough or concrete enough. Then Justis can ask for that information. But then that's the ground, and on that basis, Justis comes to a rejection. The judge can, of course, see if that information is concrete enough to finally reach that decision and reject it. Then the judge might say, "No, I don't think that's enough ground." Or the judge could say, "I think it happened carelessly." Or he says it's disproportionate for the applicant. The entire toolbox within administrative law is available to the administrative judge, but the administrative judge cannot go into the police registers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u122	So I understand that the board judge has to say that this is not sufficiently motivated, so Justis has to do the homework again, with a better foundation. And then Justis has to go back to the police, or drop off the vog.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u123	Yeah, that could be pretty good. Yes. I think that is also the answer to Mr Janssen's question. We can have a whole discussion about marginal scrutiny. A board judge can simply come to the heart of the decision. So the judge checks whether the grounds of the decision can also bear that decision. It shall also take into account the proportionality and diligence of that decision. Mr. Chairman. I come to the compensation if a dog has been wrongly rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u124	However, just a brief word: I quoted the Council's evaluation report for the case-law, as a result of the child allowance affair, in which the Council says precisely: what have we left behind as judges? They say: the question is whether the facts put forward by the plaintiff, having regard to the claims made, the content of the file and an active hearing of the parties at the hearing, can relate to more information than there is at the time in the file, so as to shed a different light on the case and possibly give rise to a well-founded appeal. Surely that goes beyond just what the Minister just sketched very marginally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u125	I do not think that is the case. If the administrative judge sees that reason, he can include all the facts in his judgment and question parties to it. In the end, he may also be able to award the appeal to the applicant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u126	However, following on from what Mr Recourt asked, do you think it is possible, as the Council itself sees it, for judges to ask for further information? Or do they have to do it with the delivery? Or could the judge ask for further information at the court hearing, because he doesn't think what's in there is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u127	The judge can always ask for that information. The question is whether Justis can always provide that information. Justis will also say: this is the information we have been given, and we have had to do it with it. Then the judge can say: I do not think there is a sufficient basis for this kind of decision to be reached on the basis of this information along the policies that you yourselves apply. The action may then be upheld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u128	But that means that Justis can also say: this is what we have, we don't know if this is all, maybe there is more, but we haven't added that to the file now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u129	Justis will never say that. It will always say: this is what we have had to make a decision on. Justis can't say: we've only made a decision, because we think there's something else out there somewhere. Justis should be able to take a well-founded decision on the basis of the information they receive. If there is a dispute over that decision, the applicant must know on the basis of what information that has been done, and the judge must also know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u130	Finally, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u131	Finally, in conjunction with my earlier interruption, that means that the judge gets all the information, including that information that may not have been given to the interested party before. You said that Justis could make a selection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u132	That's a lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u133	Perhaps you could take that with you in the second term. The same goes for the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u134	That's my point of departure. The same applies to the applicant and to the judge. But this is a disclaimer, because maybe I've made it a little more complicated than it is. I'm afraid so. Downstairs, in the civil servants' room, they've been listening eagerly. I'm gonna get the right answer. Mr. Chairman. Something about the damages. If a dog has been wrongly rejected, compensation is possible. The person concerned can then submit a claim for damages to Justis. That request will then be examined in the light of the relevant requirements. It must then be considered whether there is damage at all and whether the requirement of causal link has been met. There must be an unjustified rejection of the vog. The rejection or non-rejection of the vog shall be assessed on the basis of the data including, in this case, police data, such as those available at the time of the assessment. If the person concerned considers that the rejection is unjustified, his or her administrative objection, appeal and appeal shall be open. The person concerned can then explain why there is an unjustified rejection of the dog. This may result in the vog being rejected. If the decision on the issue of the right of appeal and appeal is maintained, there is a legitimate decision. If the person concerned is acquitted by the court of a criminal offence, if there is an ongoing investigation and suspicion, and the relevant police records were earlier grounds for refusing a vog, then the person concerned may apply for a new vog. He can then restart the procedure. The new criminal offence of that acquittal does not make the previous refusal of a vote unlawful. On the basis of the information available at the time, a proper Vog decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u135	But let us now move into the position of the citizen who has not been given a vog. On the other side of the road, he turns out to be innocent. That's what the judge said. Then he can apply for a new dog. But who knows how much time it's been in between. That position has been fulfilled by someone else for a long time. Then it is very strange that there is such a specific examination of whether it was justified at the time of the decision or not. What's in it for this citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u136	Well, that citizen has that at the time that he can apply again and perhaps get a vog after that acquittal. So you can also ask yourself whether that is not the fastest way to get a vog in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u137	But this is about compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u138	No, no. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u139	The question is whether there is cause for compensation if, at the time of refusing the vote, there were justified grounds for refusing the vote. Of course, you can differ on that, but I think that if someone is a suspect in an ongoing criminal investigation into serious facts, it is right at that point not to give them access to certain functions, even if they are acquitted at a later date. That is very unfortunate for such a person, but I also think that we, as a society, can say for certain functions that you will not be eligible for. But this does not give rise to the right to compensation with retroactive effect. I also think that, at such a time, Justis had legitimate grounds to say that the risk here is too great to give anyone access to the job in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u140	But isn't it about that person being acquitted by the judge? The judge may have said "that investigation wasn't right" or "it was completely wrong for you to be targeted." You missed a job because you didn't get a dog. In the Minister's reasoning, you are actually empty-handed, because where can you get compensation? The damage is in it that you may have missed a nice job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u141	Then there is no basis for compensation for refusing the dog. There may be other forms of damage. You may have been in remand and so on, et cetera. For those parts, you can get compensation. Such damages shall be reimbursed in the context of the criminal proceedings. But if we all think that suspicion in an ongoing case can be a reason to refuse a vog, then we also accept the risk that not every suspicion and every ongoing criminal proceedings will ultimately lead to a conviction. It could also lead to an acquittal. Then it may be that someone has not gotten a vog for a specific function and is later acquitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u142	Finally, Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u143	The other possibility is that you say: we don't involve that. You run the risk of assigning someone to such a position as a suspect in an ongoing investigation. If I'm gonna weigh those two, I'm gonna go for the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u144	Yes, but the risk will eventually be placed with the citizen of whom it is established that he has been acquitted. Let me ask the Minister: doesn't it give some kind of a pass to the government to say quite quickly "you're suspected in an ongoing investigation, so go, no vog"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u145	These are very specific functions. This is probably a few thousand applications a year. We have indicated for what functions that is the case, namely in that criminal domain. I think it makes sense to separate the administrative instrument from the criminal route. I understand very well that this feels unfair. At the same time, this is already the case with the current forms of screening. You can also be rejected for working with the police. You can also be rejected on the basis of a police screening or an AIVD screening before getting into sensitive positions with the Defense Department. That too may feel unfair. This also happens on the basis of not always hard information. The same applies to most of the functions: working in childcare, working in education, working in the taxi industry, you name it. That's really big numbers. Then it may well be that someone who says "I've learned and I'm never going to do it again, I've done something stupid in my life" is said: sorry, we don't think the risk is acceptable that, despite all your good intentions, you might be sitting behind the wheel again. There's something unfair in that too, because you're actually refusing a vog on the basis of an assessment, on top of a punishment that someone's already had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u146	Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u147	I feel that dishonesty very well, but it is inherent in this system and the choices we make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u148	I'll take a look at the time. You would like to comment on the functions to be designated and you would like to answer a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u149	I'm going through it real fast. Mr Arbouw asked me to say a few more things about the advisory committee. I think it is important that we monitor the quality of decisions on applications and the care with which they are made. The Advisory Commission will carry out random checks on quality and due diligence and will make general recommendations on this basis. Following Mr Van den Berge's motion, we are looking at whether we see signs or indications of risks of ethnic profiling. In addition to the audit, I will ask the advisory committee to consider any signs of discrimination in the annual reporting if they had been unintentionally involved in the assessment of a vog. The question was whether the Advisory Committee could also play a role in the assessment framework. I think we can do this indirectly. Justis makes his assessment framework, but of course also receives feedback from such an advisory committee. If critical notes are cracked there about care or quality, this will have an impact on working and thus indirectly on existing policy rules. Well, that's possible. Mr Recourt specifically asked whether the Advisory Committee could report on numbers, effectiveness and proportionality. As for reporting numbers, I'm asking Justis to do that. The advisory committee doesn't necessarily have to do that. Effectiveness and proportionality are, of course, more complex. They are not just asking about how the decision was made, but also whether it has had an effect in practice. Whether it is proportionate is the question we should be discussing here as legislators. Is it proportionate to apply such a heavier screening tool to specific functions? This will be dealt with in the legal review later. That's five years from now. They'll see how it turned out. Was it effective? How did this proportionality work out? I would be in favour of getting five years for that. Mrs Bezaan asked: can't that be done a little sooner? In five years, you can also gain a little experience. Otherwise, you have so little in your hands to make really good statements about it. Then there are Mr Talsma's questions on visibility and predictability. I think I've said enough about that. This is in both public access and the publication of policy rules as well as in information to the public. Questions have also been asked about functions to be designated. For example, it has been asked whether they should not be laid down by law. The review criterion and the factors that contribute to the assessment are laid down in the law following the opinion of the Council of State on this point. This has led to an amendment of the proposal. The review criterion requires a risk assessment. Furthermore, the proposed Article 35a explicitly states that the assessment of the application takes into account the nature, frequency, topicality and interrelationship of the application. The law thus provides a clearer and adequate framework for the application of the vog police data by the Justis department. So that assessment framework will be drawn up for implementation in practice. The criteria for the designation of posts are also laid down in the law. The actual designation of functions is not something that lends itself to laying down in law, purely because of its descriptive, technical character. I have promised to do so, and I believe that it is also provided for by law that the addition of these functions is made by means of announcement and a waiting period by means of the so-called front of your Chambers. Mr. Chairman. I think I've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u150	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already changed things in my interruptions, so I will be brief. I think the essence is that we all want to prevent organised crime from invading our most sensitive public functions. But the question that lingers on me is this: if that's your goal, why don't you just limit it to organized crime and those most sensitive functions? In other words, why not just the data on suspects in investigations into organised crime and why not many more specific functions? I understand that this bill is intended to apply to every boa. I just looked at Justis' site. We have 25,000 boas in this country. If the Minister says he thinks it's 1,000 investigations a year, then I think it's a lot more, because it's not just boas that apply but also annual or biennial reviews. So it's a lot more than 1,000 investigations a year. In the first instance, I indicated our reservations, including those of principle. We have also exchanged views on this issue. I must say that I have not come to any other conclusion on the basis of the debate and I note that we continue to differ. I must therefore advise my group to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u152	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u153	Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. In reply, the Minister stated, among other things, that selecting by political colour is unethical. It's good to hear that. I would like to ask the Minister how he looks at the ruling of Mr Marcouch, among others, 'PPVs have nothing to do with the police', and the ruling of criminal lawman Hermans that PVVs cannot actually become judges. I would like another response from the Minister to that. In addition, I had asked a question about specific attention to the role of Islam in police and science research into the over-representation of persons with a non-Western migration background in crime rates. I'd like that answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u154	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I now give the floor to Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I stressed that the objective of the bill is so good that you say that the country is not doing well, when you look at security, when you look at organised crime, when you look at the demands that a democratic rule of law must meet. You shouldn't use big words, but anything that helps to keep that government organization clean, to keep that crime out of the door, you have to take advantage. What you see in Chamberwide is that everyone says: pay attention to those individual applicants, judge those people on the basis of reliable data. I must admit that I sometimes think that you should dare to take the step, and there is a risk that you will release "just judicial data" for certain functions and also look at police data. If you dare to take that step, you will only do so if there are sufficient safeguards in the bill. I have seen a lot of these guarantees and the Minister has also explained a lot of them. We've been trying to fine-tune, when it comes to Justis' assessment in individual cases. What information do you use and how do you qualify that information? I have to admit, the minister and I didn't always come out. He did stress the professionalism of the organisation and the individual assessment, apart from all the situations we have seen in the supplementing affair, just to put it bluntly. I agree with the Minister that this comparison does not go far enough. Mr. Chairman. With everything I have said, I am going to advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u156	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I call Mr Talsma on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying in the first term. I must say that I greatly appreciate the way in which he has addressed many questions. As far as I am concerned, he has also responded generously to the scepticism or concerns that have been expressed by my group. I do not have to make it a secret that I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill, but with a blow to the arm as far as the forgotten question is concerned, which I will bring to the attention of the Minister. It dealt with the handling of very burdensome information from MMA notifications and TCI Pvs; information that may be very burdensome, which may even be used as start-up information for criminal investigations, independently, but whose origin does not appear. I would ask the Minister to go into that after all. One thing is still a little bit above the market, as a result of the interrupting debate which the Minister had with Mr De Boer. That is the suggestion that it may be possible, even if you have been irrevocably acquitted, that this review should lead to the conclusion that it was actually a good decision to refuse that vog. I refer to a ruling of the Administrative Justice Division of the Council of State of 28 October 2020 on the rethinking of rules. That is where the department has said: we have to get loose. It is a paraphrase on my part of that ex-nunc or ex-tunc approach, because it is ultimately about effective standard enforcement. That must lead the way for the review. So, through you, Mr President, I ask the Minister whether he can simply confirm that an irrevocable acquittal can never lead to an exclusion from the review. That seems to me to be a completely unthinkable situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u158	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. I call Mr Arbouw, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise you that I am very satisfied with the response and the debate we have had so far. The Minister has addressed very comprehensively the various concerns that are rightly raised. I have already indicated in my first term that it is about these safeguards and care. I'm glad we did a good job of looking into that and discussing it with each other. In any case, I will advise my group to agree to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u160	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u161	Thank you, Mr President and thank you, Minister. I'll start with a compliment. You have made it better than it seemed on paper, with answers which have reassured me on a number of points. Second remark in advance: I have visited Justis twice so far for my working life, and I know Justis as an honest organisation. The question is whether this is at the heart of the problem. I must also remember a distant past there, when I was a deputy prosecutor in my training. If I was frustrated again, because I knew a lot more than I could use, because that's what you've got in that position, my trainer said: pay attention, we're long-term, eventually we always win. You can lose a battle, but in the end, the government wins. But you lose the moment you put your integrity at risk. That's kind of the feeling that's underneath. I am not talking about the integrity of the government itself, because you want to protect it, but more about whether as a government you should go further in the field of the use of soft data with legal protection that I appreciate as moderate. With that question, I shall return to my group. We shall come back to that in the votes. For now, I have another motion. I had already announced her somewhat, but since you answer in second term, I'll read her out. Then I hear what the government's appreciation of this point is. The motion reads as follows: The: Mr Recourt, Mr De Boer, Mr Janssen and Mr Dittrich proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the exclusion or even discrimination of applicants or workers without reasonable grounds should be prevented at all times;]] [[Whereas automated decision-making without final control by well-informed and expert people increases the risk of this;]] [[Whereas for this purpose it is minimally necessary for decision-makers to have insight and knowledge of the automated components of the process;]] [[Whereas the role of automated decision-making or the present data analysis to be used in the future in the application of this law cannot now be foreseen;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the refusal to issue a statement of conduct is always made by well-informed and expert people who always have insight into the data used for this purpose and the processing of this data,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35355-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u162	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I think the Minister has listened carefully to the objections raised by me and colleagues. In that respect, it was a good debate. It remains, of course, that it is really about a very basic point, namely: to what extent can you, as a government, make decisions about citizens on the basis of soft data? That's one side of the story. The other side of the story is that we are talking about organised crime and specific functions where there must be no doubt that the people who work in it have been carefully screened and respected. As far as I am concerned, it is really a question of whether this legislative proposal offers sufficient guarantees and care to ensure that citizens are protected as effectively as possible. The Minister has given a number of answers which I cannot say they reassure me, but which I have come to understand more than I had only on the basis of written documents and the examination in the House of Representatives. On the subject of the citizen who has received a rejection for the vote, while he has been irrevocably acquitted, I did not yet find the answer convincing. I hope the Minister will come back to that in his second term. I was thinking, if I were a lawyer myself, I would advise the citizen to take action against the government on the basis of tortious acts. But, of course, it should really be possible in a different way, more effective and more efficient for citizens. I have signed Mr Recourt's motion on artificial intelligence, because I do think it is important that human considerations are taken into account at all stages of the process. That can't be taken off automatically. Mr. Chairman. That leads me to the following conclusion. When I entered the debate, I told the group in advance that we should vote against this. In view of the Minister's reply, I shall now return to the group and I believe that the group should be able to make an open assessment. Of course, I am going to listen carefully to the Minister's second term. When we vote, we will give our final verdict by means of an explanation of vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u163	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. Let me start by saying that I am always so sorry that if we can learn lessons with each other, we can react so defensively. I noticed a bit of a defensive attitude with the Minister. He said: this doesn't look like the supplementing affair at all, because this is very different. That's not what I'm talking about. It's about me that if there's lessons to be learned somewhere, we need to learn them abstracted, too. Whether it is the evaluation of the Council for Justice, which has itself looked at its role, or whether the Tax Authority or the Personal Data Authority is looking at itself, if there are lessons to be learned in a derived bill like this, then we need to see if we can translate those lessons. That doesn't include defensiveness, as far as I'm concerned. Mr. Chairman. The core of my group's concerns is not what Mrs De Boer pointed out. She said that when it comes to organised crime and people who have been identified as suspects, they are people who are suspect in any way, but not a suspect. These people do not have the protection of criminal law, as we have also established with each other. They will therefore have to be able to rely on administrative law. Then the question is whether that chain is sufficiently sharp and sufficiently secure. So that was, for example, a question I had on the point of view. I'm always into investing in front; that might save a lot of hassle and money at the back. So if there's any need for help with that, make sure it comes with such a view. You'll avoid a lot of taxes in the chain. That could apply to professional help. That could also mean that a planned rejection is already said: by the way, if you want to request police information, you can do so with this standard letter, and then you will get everything. I can imagine that, if you want to present an opinion, it is important that you know everything. That's just a tip. I am less concerned that Justis will remain craftsmanship and that the human balance will be made there. My concerns are with the Police Data Act and the data coming into the system. I am referring first of all to the overloaded police who will have to register that data in a very careful way, because they are now being used for a purpose that they were not used for at that time. But here's what I'm talking about. I have wholeheartedly signed Mr Recourt's motion in order to see what will happen in the future. The Police Data Act is about the cork on which this bill floats. I mention the image that the Minister sketches of 'always topical' and 'it must always be true'. In January of this year, the WODC launched an investigation in which it concludes that there is a discrepancy between law and digital technological reality, and that the current system of police data processing is dated and not calculated on the technical possibilities and challenges in current practice. Reference is also made to new analytical techniques. When I hear that combination, I, especially with the Police Data Act, not so much in the case of Justis, still see the images above that, in line with Mr Recourt's motion, it must also be clear what might have been digitally processed at the front. It is not just "computer says no," but it is also clear how the computer came to judgment at Justis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u165	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? You're asking for five minutes. Then I'll suspend until 6:18.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u166	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u167	Mr. Chairman. There were still two big things left. I note that I may have been somewhat stricter or stricter in the first period, so it is always good that we can still have the reins celebrated in the second period in order to perhaps draw the doubting parties over the line. The first is the question of what information is given to applicants and judges. That's all the information that Justis has received. So there's no selection. The second point concerns the small debate I had with Mrs De Boer and Mr Dittrich on what happens if there is an acquittal during the trial. The objection procedure and the submission of the opinion concern an overall review involving new information, including an acquittal to which the applicant refers. He has that right, too. So that could be involved. New information may also lead to the court referring the case back to Justis for a new decision on the basis of new information. So it's not like the judge would have to say, "Justis was right, just file a new application," because it can also be done via that route. This is quite apart from the fact that even the board itself, if Justis is reminded of this, can destroy or amend a decision. Mr Talsma has asked how information is taken into account in the context of, for example, Meld Crime Anonymous. That's part of Justis' assessment of the nature of the information. An anonymous report is something other than a factual finding by a police officer in office. That will also be taken into account. Mrs De Boer has been asked to say that it is going to apply to all boas, and indeed there are a lot of them, but that is not the case. We are currently looking at some of the boas, especially the boas with power of violence, after the law has been passed. Then it's a much smaller number. Then the question of whether FIOD information or information from other investigation services is included in this bill. The answer to that is negative, so no, but I think it's something to look at seriously. I can imagine that if we have good experiences with this system, we might want to broaden it too. When it comes to money laundering and fraud, there are, of course, other services involved. It can therefore provide relevant information. Mrs Bezaan has asked whether Islam has been included in the ongoing investigation. That's not up to me. That is ultimately up to the independent researchers. I know the views of Mrs Bezaan's party on this. I think you should look at faith if it matters. For example, where terrorist offences are involved, you should not ignore them. At the same time, I find the reasoning that Islam will be the reason for the over-representation of Dutch Moroccans in the crime figures really too easy, because I rarely encounter an Islamic Dutch Antillian, while we also see that there is a strong over-representation, just as we know that there is some over-representation in the Turkish community but significantly lower than in the Dutch Moroccans. So let's talk about where it plays a role, and that's especially in the corner of terrorism. How do I look at the statements of Marcouch and criminal Hermans? I'll leave those statements on their own. What matters to me is that it has to be about fitness. So any rejection of fitness based on political preferences I would personally reject. Finally, we have a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u168	In my term, I had also asked for compensation. Will the Minister comment on my suggestion? Let's say a citizen was wrongly denied a dog. And suppose that person has been irrevocably acquitted, the government unjustly apprehended that person as a suspect and you name it. Can the citizen still pay for that damage through an unlawful act against the government, so the damage he suffered because he didn't get that job? How does the Minister view this? I thought in his second term the Minister would return to the element of compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u169	This cannot be done on the basis of the judgment that Justis had to make at any time, because that is then a justified judgment. It is entirely justified if a vog application is rejected because someone was suspected in an ongoing investigation. There is therefore no question of a tort or an unjustified decision. This could be the case if Justis made an unfounded or bad decision, which the judge later said: on these thin grounds, you should never have refused to do so. But a suspicion in an ongoing investigation is, of course, a very serious issue. At a time like this, Justis quite rightly refuses the dog. This is also separate from the fact that in case of acquittal, for example, in the case of imprisonment... Well, that's more about the criminal trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u170	The point is that this person was acquitted by the judge in the criminal case. That judge could say that the whole suspicion was incorrect. At that stage, then, Justis may have made a decision on the basis of the data in force, but the citizen is empty-handed. And the question is, how can this citizen be compensated for his damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u171	I'm afraid that's not possible. Justis does not comment on, for example, whether the suspicion is strong enough or ultimately leads to acquittal. That's really in the criminal court. What Justis does is assess whether it can be determined on the basis of the data it receives whether there is a risk that you do not want to have the applicant in a particular place. Justis isn't a judge or a district attorney. In retrospect, the outcome of a long-term criminal investigation may still be an acquittal. But that doesn't make Justis' decision unlawful at the time. On those grounds, there is therefore no reason to give compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u172	I'd like to get on with this. I follow the Minister's reasoning. If you really focus on the actions of Justis, in such a case, you cannot assume unlawfulness. But assuming that the government is more than Justis, there may be reason to believe that the suspicion has been incorrect. This will not be the case with every acquittal, because with many acquittals it just stays in the middle. But there are situations where it is clear that the suspicion has been unjustified. Then, in light of the information sent to Justis by the police, it was wrong. Apart from the question of whether or not Justis has made a proper assessment, one could say in such a situation: the government, the police, the system failed here and wrongly identified someone as a suspect. This has all kinds of consequences for that citizen, including the false refusal of a bird. I think you could come to liability through that construction. So you're not talking about Justis' judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u173	That's in a totally different line. With the nuances given by Mrs De Boer: an acquittal does not automatically mean a tortious act. In many cases where there has been an acquittal, there has been insufficient evidence and there is no reason to claim compensation. However, there are of course exceptions where you can say: there has been such carelessness, a kind of miscarriage of justice, in which there has been damage and in which you can then hold liable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u174	Based on tort?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u175	I don't know if that's possible in criminal law, but I think it can be done on the basis of tort. In any case, all claims are made through civil law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u176	Let's go round the circle for the history of law. It may be that if Justis comes to a balance that they should have logically known was a rejection on grounds that weren't actually borne by... We are not going to do the whole casuism, but it is not excluded that even Justis can come to a judgment that has not been worn in one way or another, without having a follow-up in appeal, but that it can also be with Justis himself. It will also happen very little, but it cannot be ruled out, that is my question to the Minister. It is not always through criminal law, it can also be through the actions of Justis himself, if that is culpable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u177	Yes, but then we go to very specific exceptions. If Justis simply gives all the information to the judge and the judge says to find that information too thin to refuse a vog, then it may indeed happen that there will be grounds for an unjustly refused vog and that entire journey. I believe that I have already gone in the direction of Dittrich and I have said that this could give rise to an unjustified decision on which you can come back, even when it comes to the damage suffered. Finally, Mr Recourt's motion and his associates. I am perfectly capable of doing this and can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u178	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-eerstekamer-5.u179	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. Then we have come to the end of the meeting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Minister and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home.
