ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u1	Then we will continue to deal with the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u2	We had stayed with Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u3	When I was a kid, I used to love chess very much. I was just thinking about that during the debate. Because if there is a budget where you have to look very forward, besides a lot of things in politics, it is, of course, Defence. That is also a bit the theme of my contribution today. Because today's cabinet produced a Defence Vision 2035, which has been discussed before today, but at the same time no money has been allocated to carry out this vision as a whole and no choices have been made, if you think: with a limited budget we have to do what we can do. There are no choices made that GroenLinks considers important, and then it is about specialisation, which has been discussed earlier today. It seems that the rule in the defence sector is, above all, not to look too far ahead, not to look beyond what is strictly necessary. I am going to use this debate today to look a little further than just tomorrow. I saw a message from my predecessor on this file which said, in response to what he read about this debate: so little has changed. I recognize that in many of the debates we are having here, but that is not the intention, because we did not go into politics for that. When it comes to the issue of military specialization, I mentioned the motion that was adopted last year to develop scenarios and to see where you would have to specialize as a military force. The Minister says that he is not going to carry out the motion, because it is or should be a gradual process and that specialization should be done in consultation with allies. But GroenLinks doesn't deny that at all. That gradual process must take place, in consultation with allies, but it must start sometime. The development of scenarios of options that are obvious for the Netherlands could be helpful in this respect, and we could have the debate on this. What does the Netherlands want? I would therefore ask the Minister to carry out the motion and come forward with detailed scenarios before Christmas. One of the specializations that GroenLinks sees in front of him is cyber, a point where it seems that the DOD is afraid to think through. The old-fashioned army of Army, Air Force and Navy is not up to the threats of the future. Cyber defense is crucial if we want to keep our infrastructure safe over the next few decades and prevent major military conflicts. But Defense prevents a political debate on the extent of our cyber defense by keeping the budgets for cyber capacity, STPD and Cyber Command a secret. What enemies could read from these budgets is still unclear after several questions I asked about this. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a good argument or else simply make the budgets public? I am considering a motion on this point. Then there's the process around the airport decisions, another point where the DOD seems blind to the risks. Defense wants to fly more over De Peel and Gilze-Rijen, despite strong resistance from local communities and a tight lack of space for the extra nitrogen deposition in Brabant. To ask what the defence will do when the airport decisions ricochet off, the Minister's answer is short: we will see that again. We don't think that's good enough, because governance is forward-looking. Just make sure the plans are ready for if it doesn't work out. Because fair is fair: that's a pretty big chance. Just make sure that there is no great delay and social unrest when the SMART-L radar is placed in Herwijnen, purely because Defence is too stubborn to adjust time. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a glimmer of light. Defence has 30,000 hectares of natural areas, which are also being practiced. In the written round, I asked about the role that the areas can play in the challenges facing the Netherlands in the field of biodiversity. The minister said he's coming with a report. My question is when can we expect this report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. Mr Cedar of the Christian Union has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I applied to the Royal Army as a reservist a few years ago, in addition to a number of physical investigations, psychic investigations and security investigations, I also had to appear before a so-called army advisory committee. It was a good but strict conversation, where the core was: what are you doing here anyway? Why do you want this? I don't know what my exact words were anymore, but it was about the following: "From my limited time and resources, I would like to contribute to the peace, stability and security of the Netherlands and the international legal order. I believe that this can be done at the Department of Defense, and that I can not only give something, but that the Defence Department also has a lot to offer." Over the years, I have noticed that this is also a motivation for a lot of people who are currently working or who have worked in the Defense Department and who have been able to get to know me. Mr. Chairman. Working at Defense is a comprehensive and responsible task. That is why I would also like to begin my contribution by thanking all the military and civil and support staff, who are working every day to make peace and stability possible both in the country and across national borders. Many have also made the greatest sacrifice for this, so that we may and can live in relative peace. So thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. I can also see that the debate on basic preparedness is therefore of particular concern. Fortunately, after years of austerity on the armed forces, this cabinet has been finally established. In recent years, some 1.5 billion has been added structurally. This year, the percentage of gross national product devoted to our defence has risen from 1.22% to 1.49%. That is an important step. But as we know, that's not good enough. Mr. Chairman. There is also a discussion about the conditions of employment and the salary of the staff. It appears that there is only room for a 1.4% increase. The new wage building, which we all know needs to be built, also requires money that is not yet available. On previous questions, the Minister said, among other things, that people are not motivated by money alone. Although that is certainly true, as I said in my introduction, it does, in some ways, wrong to the reality that there is indeed a dated wage building and that people are pouring out very often because they simply cannot provide for their livelihood, however much they would like to contribute to Defence. Under these circumstances, I think it would be wise for the Minister to focus on improving the quality of personnel readiness. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he can indicate whether he has succeeded. What personnel does he specifically bring in to contribute as much as possible to improving operational readiness? Mr. Chairman. We also think it is right to make choices, for example by focusing on specialisation around the submarines. A number of motions have also been tabled on this subject, which we have signed with them. In future, we hope to be able to replace these submarines. However, the decision on the replacement of submarine capacity has already been delayed. The replacement of the Walrus class will not be realized in time. In a written consultation that preceded this debate, I asked whether the delay that is now being experienced was not due to the choice of talking to three yards rather than one. I have not yet seen a clear answer to that, but I do understand that Defence has too scarce a capacity for experts to engage in dialogue with three yards at the same time. That necessarily also caused delays. I would like to hear some clarity from the Minister on this. As indicated, we have a number of motions on this subject. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to talk about the planned radar, where Herwijnen is a possible location. A motion has already been passed in the Chamber calling on the government to stop the state coordination regime for placing a new SMART-L radar at Herwijnen. Nevertheless, the Minister has kept that option open. That radar is very important; we acknowledge that, but maintaining or even restoring trust between government and citizens means that we are expected to comply with that motion. I therefore ask the Minister whether he can promise that in any case Herwijnen will be removed from the route in the so-called National Coordination Scheme. I'm considering a motion for a resolution on that, too. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr Ceder. Mr Fritsma has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u7	In the past, the Christian Union has rightly always been critical of the JSF, particularly its cost aspect. Those concerns were justified. The PVV and also your party have been right, because we have a very big problem. We've bought defective planes. This device has 875 shortcomings. It's some kind of flying Fyra. The cost is going to be an even bigger nightmare than we thought. As the Christian Union has often spoken about this in the past, I would like to ask what conclusions the Christian Union now draws on these problems with this plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u8	As my colleague knows, we have indeed been critical of this point. You have also heard in my contribution that with the scarce resources we have, we are really looking at improvements towards staff, although we see that something has to be done about it. As indicated, we are critical of this. I don't have a ready answer for you on exactly what should happen to this. We have seen where the budget leads. I would also like to hear from the Minister how he intends to use the scarce resources for repairs in the coming period. If you ask me the political question as to where the money should go, because we are now dealing with scarce resources, you have heard in my introduction and my input that I am also asking for real attention for the staff. I am not sitting at the table, not even with the trade unions, but I believe that we also have an obligation to the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Fritsma, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u10	Yeah, I know, but I'm gonna stick to this. I think it is an honest answer. It also offers an opening, because the staff is indeed heavily underpaid. Suppose we continue with the JSF, which you know there are such big problems and such big cost overruns. I can imagine you saying now that you do not have a good answer, but I would really like to give your group a good look at that. If the emergency brake can be pulled at one time, for example, to order those additional nine devices and thus save EUR 700 million, then it is now. I would therefore like to give that to your group, also in the light of your justified criticism of the JSF project in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u11	I'll take that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you. Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing the budget of the Department of Defense. I actually think that is the saddest of all the budgets that are being discussed, because it affects the question of what the government exists and it touches on the question of why we are here at all. I think the reason the government exists, if it really matters, is ultimately the protection of the people who live in this country. That's what the army's for. That's what the army came up with. That's the job it's been given. He can't do it in a lot of ways. There has been structural savings on this most important body within our government. There's been decades of predation on something that should've been the most important thing. I always notice in committee, but also today in the debate, that there seems to be a very large consensus among everyone that this is the case and that this is very important. It's not gonna happen. However, structural money is not added. I was very happy to read that the Minister indicated that perhaps 4 billion could or should be added to the formation now, because we also hear that call from the military. I hope that's what's gonna happen. At the same time, I don't understand why we can't just do it now. I had a brief debate on this with Mr Boswijk. I don't know why we don't decide on this right now. I also do not understand why the Minister did not say, as his colleague from the Economic Affairs Committee did in the climate field, that he simply wants money for this. I want this solved now. We've been behind for decades, and now something just has to happen. I was also surprised to read it has just been mentioned several times about the salary increase. It's outrageous what's happening there. Government officials are getting 2% extra salary next year. Municipal officials will get 4% extra salary next year. Military people have to do it with 1%, while inflation is 3.5%. What the hell is this? How can this happen? It proves that there is a totally wrong sense of priorities. Together with a number of colleagues, we were on a working visit to the Air Force. That's where you'll meet very inspiring people. That was a lot of people who really want something, who really feel direction, who really want to go all the way and who are really willing to risk their lives. So the sacrifice they want to give is so enormous. That's beyond comprehension. Then you'll get there. Then they're all proud of their vehicles, which they all love. At the same time there are stories, for example that there is no connection in the military ambulances during exercises, because there is no money for that. It's stories that really hit me. Then I think, "What the hell are we doing?" We ran through the alloys. Then we were told it wasn't one of the worst buildings, but an average building. The system ceilings, those plates, they just literally hung out of the ceiling. The plaster was hanging from the walls. Paint was hanging from the walls. Tiles in the bathroom were off. It was dirty, old, ugly. The furniture was broken. It was just some real shit. It's been declining since the 1970s. It's getting worse. Something has to be done now. We can decide that now. We don't have to wait for a formation. We can do that now. The man who gave the tour said they need about 200 million to get all the alloys in order. Maybe the Minister can give you a more precise number. They're doing renovations. They all look fine. That's all going well, but it's going very slowly, because there's just little budget. Only 200 million. And then I remembered the town hall of the municipality of Amersfoort, where 109 million is now being smashed. 109 million for another one of those blocks, for one of those steel and glass boxes, which a mayor turned into a beautiful prestige project. But the people in the army have been heavily underpaid for decades. The buildings, the barracks, they're falling apart. I can't believe what's going on here. It's unbelievable. So I made a list of all the town halls and wrote down what they cost. Simply, simply, via Google. Probably there's a lot more. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het zijn: Amersfoort, 109 miljoen, Berkelland, 15 miljoen, Beverwijk, 13 miljoen, Blaricum, 9 miljoen, Boxmeer, 15 miljoen, Castricum, 15 miljoen, Coevorden, 7 miljoen, Dalfsen, 17 miljoen, Den Helder, 26 miljoen, Goes, 23 miljoen, Haaksbergen 7 miljoen, Haren, 9 miljoen, Heemskerk, 17 miljoen, Helmond, 36 miljoen, Hengelo, 35 miljoen, Hoorn, 28 miljoen, Krimpenerwaard, 27 miljoen, Lansingerland, 35 miljoen, Leudal, 12 miljoen, Lochem, 16 miljoen, Meppel, 14 miljoen, Midden-Delfland, 9 miljoen, Midden-Groningen, 28 miljoen, Nieuwegein, 67 miljoen, Nijkerk, 9 miljoen, Oldambt, 25 miljoen, Oosterhout, 13 miljoen, Overbetuwe, 19 miljoen — Overbetuwe heeft nog een keer verbouwd voor 9 miljoen — Rheden, 19 miljoen, Ridderkerk, 15 miljoen, Rijssen, 21 miljoen, Rotterdam, 60 miljoen, Sittard-Geleen, 37 miljoen, Texel, 13 miljoen, Tholen, 15 miljoen, Tilburg, 75 miljoen voor een gemeentehuis en nog eens 50 miljoen voor een stadswinkel, Twenterand, 6 miljoen, Utrechtse Heuvelrug, 26 miljoen, Vijfheerenlanden, 25 miljoen, Waalwijk, 17 miljoen, Weert, 25 miljoen, Westerveld, 11 miljoen, Westland, 65 miljoen, Winterswijk, 11 miljoen, Zaanstad 71 miljoen en Zwijndrecht, 13 miljoen.]] And this can be found with a simple Google command. Probably a lot more than this. And these alone add up to EUR 1.2 billion! Of course, we also need town halls. Of course, it's important that there are nice town halls, but these kinds of amounts are absurd when you think about what needs to happen with the Defense Department, when we think that 40% of the property will be disposed of because there is no money. What are we doing in this country? How can this happen? How is it that the Minister has not become furious with his colleagues in the cabinet who do get that money, when for years, the Defence Department has needed much more money? I don't understand. That is my question to the Minister. What kept me very much from visiting the Air Force is the following. Our Air Force launched a small satellite into space on a commercial flight. It's the first time this has happened. A rocket under a wing. Very cool. They were all very proud of that, and rightly so. It was a very nice project. What they said was that all of Europe is jealous, that all of Europe is coming to us now and saying: hey, that's what we want; how can we contribute to this, what can we do? Those are the amazing things. How is it that we live in a country where the minister doesn't say "this is such a fantastic project; here you have 1 billion and are going to be a frontrunner in the world; we are going to make the very best of it"? That should be our mission. That's what we should do. We should get the staff back to normal. We should ensure that equipment and infrastructure are put back in order. All that stuff. That is what we can decide today. We can decide that. We don't have to wait for a formation. The Second Chamber is empowered to do so, not a coalition or a formation or whatever. The House of Representatives may decide to do so. I will therefore table an amendment to that effect, and I expect you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr Jansen. I now give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. Any politician must be aware that every day in politics can be his or her last. This was experienced by former Minister of Defence, Mrs Bijleveld, on 15 September this year in a rather direct way. Everything happens immediately, and you'll be gone soon. There's no time for goodbye. That is why I would like to thank Mrs Bijleveld in this way and wish her well for the future. Mr. Chairman. The successor of the resigned minister is also from the east of the country. That's where sober people come from, who see things and say what they are. Minister Kamp is also so famous. I was therefore very surprised that the Minister announced that Defence will give courses on diversity and inclusiveness. Those are the key words of the current woke ideology that can sow division. I thought, "What the hell is that, Camp is out of control?" I therefore ask the Minister to clarify his remarks. I am very much in favour of women in the army; I think the American army shows how to integrate in this way. But I would like to warn the Minister about the worst variant of the woke industry: the so-called 'critical race theory', the critical race theory. That leather divides people into boxes and sees everything through the prism of race. And getting that thinking inside the armed forces makes for a fight inside. It divides and disputes, just where a sharp corps spirit is needed. I hope the Minister can reassure me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u16	I hope the Minister doesn't do that. And I would actually like to ask Mr Eppink this. Actually, I'm a little disappointed, too. You put it very briefly: always for diversity and inclusion; yes, I am for women, but the rest is not, and that is "woke." However, these are completely different things. I would like to ask: Mr Eppink, are you not in favour of the Dutch military being a reflection of all the people who live in the Netherlands, whether you are called Jan, Piet, Klaas and all, born and raised your entire family from Drenthe, or whether you are Janilla and second child of guest workers in the Netherlands, that you serve the armed forces, that it is important that the Netherlands is safe, that you want to stand up for it, that you want to go into the rest with the same uniform, the same rules? Why would Mr Eppink not want more diversity in the armed forces through you, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u17	There was, of course, a great deal of diversity when we had a conscript duty and had to come up with conscripts. That was a reflection of society. Now it is a professional army and people come because they want to, because they are motivated. Then you can say: we want to bring more diversity into that. And I'm saying I'm not against that either, but I'm warning you about the critical race theory, about the critical race theory as it's called, because if you bring that in the army, you're gonna have a fight about who's what, and how, and when, and then you're gonna break the corps spirit. So I'd say get unity in an army. And if you look at this subject: look at Nelson Mandela, who has always advocated reconciliation and cooperation, and do not create contradictions and polarisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u18	But I think that is exactly what the minister and the military are doing: to become aware of the fact that people sometimes have a different background, to talk about it. Because if you do not talk about it and people do come in but then leave, then there is no reconciliation. And I think the principle that everyone should be able to work in the armed forces, the belief that it is good to have diversity, is important. But if you don't think that's important, I'd like to ask Mr Eppink. The demographic developments are such that there are not enough of the classic model, of boys between 17 and 25 years old who are going to apply to the armed forces, I can tell you. If you are orienting yourself on this, it is therefore also important from a reality point of view that you look wider than the classic model we have used for years, so that we can be safe in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u19	Again, I advocate unity and also a group spirit in the army, that people work well together, that there is a corps spirit in an army. And I want to prevent people from arguing about races, about the past or about other things, and I believe that's how you have to work. It's a different angle. Well, then maybe we'll get the same result, because I understand what you mean, but I'm warning you about the polarizing effect of this critical race theory. And that's what we see in the United States, so let's not do that. The U.S. military is trying to do that, and they're coming back from that. Other parts of society as well: one comes back from that. Mr President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you. DOD's been dealing with predatory construction for years. Defence became the closing point for the budget. I also appeal to the Prime Minister, who is becoming the longest-standing Prime Minister of the Netherlands. In that long time, the Defense Department suffered greatly from neglect. It became a deserted department. There is a shortage of everything, people, material and money. Nevertheless, I would point out that you cannot burden the Prime Minister with all the sins of Israel because he has worked with other parties: two years tolerated by the PVV, the CDA, of course the VVD, D66, the PvdA and the Christian Union. So he wasn't alone. When we talk about neglect here, there is at least shared guilt. Structurally, 4 billion is needed, the Minister believes, and that would be a start. Although that is still not enough to reach the NATO 2% standard in three years' time. For that, Defense needs at least $5 billion. That is necessary because the Dutch army has three important constitutional tasks, but cannot do them properly anymore, as we have heard before. In practice, you can see that instantly. See the evacuation in Afghanistan. One of the two Dutch evacuation aircraft, the C-130, had a technical failure and therefore could not fly. Fortunately, Ukraine was able to help the Netherlands out of the fire with its transport plane. Moreover, Ukraine spends approximately 3% of its GDP on Defence. The Department of Defense also leaves its staff in the cold too often. As it stands, the staff will receive a total of 1.2% increase in salaries and an occasional allowance. This is therefore below 2% to 3% of annual inflation, which is now rising rapidly. So our military personnel are getting worse. How can the Minister ever allow thousands of vacancies to be filled by a ministry that offers little eye-catching perspective? There are now about 9,000. There is also the AOW-hole for former soldiers. When the retirement age was raised in 2013, former military suddenly received hundreds of euros a month less. There was a financial gap between the payout of former soldiers who stopped at 65 and the AOW who only started at 67. That involved almost 20,000 former soldiers. Instead of appreciating these former soldiers for their service, the Ministry limited the arrangement to distressing cases. That's how the lavage was thinned. However, the Minister must treat all cases equally. Show appreciation for the staff, otherwise the whole force will be demotivated. Is the Minister aware of this? Nor can it be sold that more than 200 million from the Ministry of Defence disappears annually as RVU fine, the early retirement scheme fine, to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. from one ministry to another. The committee set up by this Parliament concludes that the Tax Office has probably wrongly designated the AOW-hole compensation as RVU. Let us therefore use the 200 million in taxes to solve the staff shortage. There have been too few investments. Purchase of new equipment takes too long, such as the construction of new submarines in the Walrus class. Last Friday I paid a visit to the Drechtsteden and I saw all that. And you learn a lot on a job visit. You suddenly have the need to work together in this sector, a sector where the Netherlands still has a lot of technology, but if the submarines do not continue, that technology, that knowledge will be lost. The Netherlands has the technology in its own house. The submarines can be built in the manufacturing industry of the Drechtsteden. It's waiting for the cabinet to decide. One can of course say 'we'll take a French submarine', but then we'll lose the whole knowledge and we'll never get it back. Why should something be made elsewhere when we can make it ourselves with local content? So it's waiting for the minister, the man with a sober view of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you. Mrs. Belhaj has another question for you, Mr. Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u23	I begin my question with: he who is without sin, cast the first stone. Then I come to my question. Mr Eppink referred very much to all those political parties who are all responsible for the situation in which Defence is now moving. I was wondering: how many political parties has Mr Eppink been a member of and at what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u24	Oh, that's easy for me to say. In my college days, that was the PvdA. After that, after I met Frits Bolkestein in The Hague, that was the VVD. Then it was FVD, but that was short-lived, as you saw, and now it's JA21. Is that okay? You're allowed to be a member of a party as a citizen, aren't you? And you can go to another party, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u25	This is your last interruption. That's what we're going back to, I think, the defense budget, on a U-turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u26	As far as I am concerned, it is about the defence budget when someone accuses other political parties of being guilty of austerity or of being jointly responsible for the decisions that have been taken. That is why I asked Mr Eppink. He may be a member of a hundred political parties, but if he was a member of the PvdA in his student days, it was probably at the time when the PvdA was making a lot of cuts in Defense. If he was a member of the VVD about in 2014, or earlier, it was when nothing happened for years. I am actually trying to say that everyone has a responsibility when he is a member of a political party, so it is a little faint that Mr Eppink is now suggesting that he was not part of it. Therefore I began my question with: He who is without sin, cast the first stone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u27	I referred to Mr Rutte's reigns. That's 11 years. I tried to make it clear that it wasn't just the Prime Minister, it was a shared debt. Maybe it's a collective debt, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u28	Thank you. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Belhaj no longer has any interruptions, but let me just say right away that I have only been a member of the SGP and that I have been for about 20 years. Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then the contents. What is the core task of our armed forces? If you ask a lot of people, they might say something like: bring peace. But that is wrong, because the core task of our defense is to fight, fight, apply responsible violence. The aim is, of course, security and peace, but that is not the primary task. I fear that we have sometimes forgotten this after 75 years of peace in our country, that we have forgotten that the world is a dangerous place where you are lagging behind 1-0 without hard power, hard power, evil forces, so without good counterpower. Why else have we refused for decades to give Defence the resources needed to fight for peace? In this respect, we support the Minister's call for these billions to be added to the defence budget. In this respect, I would also like to refer to the motion that we tabled as a SGP, which was supported by VVD, CDA and Christian Union, so I am confident that it will be moving in the right direction in the near future. That motion was about extra billions as a priority for the cabinet negotiations and the coalition agreement. We trust that the next cabinet will take seriously the appeal of the Minister and the motion to which I refer and that it will deliver. Because that is what we owe our Constitution, our security, our military, our allies and also the international legal order. Mr. Chairman. Having said this, let me say that the SGP is very concerned about the delay in replacing submarines. There is no doubt that this intelligence and weapons platform is crucial, given the global geopolitical threats. That cabinet and chamber have repeatedly expressed the wish for a process of replacement which ensures strategic autonomy and which does an essential justice to the Dutch maritime industry, is also clear in my opinion. That is why I ask the Minister: will he ask the competing yards to show them how they involve the Dutch maritime industry in the design, development, construction and, above all, the maintenance of submarines, and speed up the acquisition process on this basis? I'd like to hear the Minister's answer. Mr. Chairman. Then another crucial capacity that is also of tactical and strategic importance, namely tactical and strategic air transport. Transport helicopters active in many places, up to and including the Caribbean. In crisis situations, military weapons, supplies or evacuations come from a to b.C-130 devices were active in Afghanistan and also in Mali. However, I think we have seen together that the taxation of defence is also very high in this area. We also discussed this during the last discussion, the technical briefing and the debate on Mali. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees that there is a need to increase these capacities. Would he like to identify the needs and the costs and benefits thereof? Another focus is operational support and the build-up of sufficient stocks of ammunition and spare parts. Without this lubricating oil between the wheels, the whole machine comes to a standstill. My question to the Minister is therefore: is it true that this oil alone will require an additional 800 million in structural terms? And it's an easy question, I understand that, but it's a serious question. How does the Minister ensure that the necessary amount actually gets there? Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group is pleased that we are going to achieve the 2% investment ratio agreed in NATO. 20%, by the way. Continuous developments in the world require continuous innovation. Defence and industry can and must complement each other. Can the Minister state what progress has been made on the implementation of our motion for a resolution on promoting cooperation between defence and industry? Mr. Chairman. This was all about stuff, but most important is the factor with which our armed forces really stand or fall. And I'm lucky to see that in the Chamber. These are the people. Good and motivated military personnel are crucial, also for the preparation and employability. Defence must create the conditions for this. There have been many opportunities in this area for many years, but unfortunately these opportunities are still there. Mr. Chairman. I would like to focus on three points. First of all, I am concerned about the maintenance of staff. Each organisation needs old-timers with experience. That field experience is definitely needed at the Department of Defense. Moreover, we must also note that recruitment of newcomers is expensive. Technical people are scarce. My question is: what about the roll-out of the new staff model? Is it really a market-based salary and good opportunities for growth? Mr. Chairman. The second point I want to make here is: ensure a good governance model at the top. I do not think it would be desirable for the Commander of the Armed Forces, the CDS, to have only an executive role and not a policy role. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees and whether he wishes to reconsider the current control model on this point. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, I would like to say that we must have a stronger relationship between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Youth. Militarymen are famous for their disciplinary skills under the motto "knock on the shoulder or kick under hollow." In my opinion, these skills can have great added value in dealing with problematic behaviour by young people who risk slipping into crime. Previously, the project "The Challenge" was set up at this point, but that was unfortunately reduced later. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees that this good strengthening of cooperation could be there. My question is also whether he wants to allow a pilot in which veterans are used for discipline and rehabilitation of the group of young people I have just appointed. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The core values of the army are courage, dedication and resilience. Let us, as politicians, have the courage to take the armed forces seriously, even if it does not produce the popularity prize. I wonder if we would allow our commitment to the country's interests to go above party politics. And let us also make amidst the shifting tectonic plates in world politics with resilience and well-thought-out choices so that, when it comes to it, we can fight for peace. I very much hope and express the wish that the next cabinet will actually show this statemanship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mr Stoffer. Mr van Wijngaarden wishes to raise his final question of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yeah, about recruiting new people. That is what Mr Stoffer referred to and he was worried about. Does he share with me the concerns regarding the Defense Cyber Commando, which, of course, operates in a very specific and indeed atypical domain in the labour market? Does he share that it is very worrying that, because of the frighteningly slow HR transition, that Defence Cyber Command still cannot recruit and appoint people independently, so apart from the other armies? The Defense Cyber Command depends entirely on the other parts, while we have also seen that this cyber threat is increasing. So shouldn't we give Defense Cyber Command much more a stand-alone position to attract the people we need to protect what's dear to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u32	That's a nice question. I could answer it very briefly with "yes." That is my first answer. I would like to give a very brief explanation. It is, of course, a very difficult world, a very difficult one in that respect. I think there aren't many people who are really good at it. You want the best people in this place, of course. Maybe that paycheck building's pretty tight. We were in Israel a few years ago. That's where you see the combination of business and defense. There is a model with high-quality technological knowledge, which they sometimes use in defence and which they are then allowed to market again. But that has its advantages again. I would like to give that to the Minister. I will do so through Mr Van Wijngaarden. Maybe there would be a chance to pick this up too. But again, nice question. And the answer to that is "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thank you, Mr Stoffer. I call Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to say that I am very happy to be in a debate with a minister who really pays attention to the Members of Parliament who speak. I would like to give that compliment in advance, because I see Mr Kamp, sorry, the Minister, really listening carefully to the MPs all the time. It's different in this room. Mr President, dear inhabitants of the Netherlands and people here in the gallery. Our military deserve the greatest possible honor. They have committed their lives to this country, and as long as they are there, I am convinced that our freedom is in good hands and that our national tricolor continues to wave over this country. The strength of our men and women was again seen this year, for example during the flood in Limburg and, of course, during the crisis in Afghanistan. Defence also remains of enormous importance for the countryside. Our soldiers often come from villages and rural cities in the regions of the Netherlands. Boys and girls from the pounded pot, so to speak. The barracks, spread across rural regions, function as important social and economic centres. In the meantime, however, our armed forces are sighing under the yoke of a cabinet that likes to preserve our national security. I know stories from a few years ago that soldiers had to practice shooting without weapons. And what were they supposed to do? Then they had to yell, "Peanut, peanut, peanut." There are parties who are at the forefront of every debate in this Chamber with an international agreement that the Netherlands must keep. But when it comes to an agreement we made to guarantee our security and independence, you often don't hear about our international agreements anymore. Next year is the 20th anniversary of the first Dutch NATO promise that our Defence budget will cover at least 2% of GDP. We are not going to make this deal despite the promises of coalition parties, and that while we depend on the same allies for our security in a world where uncertainty is increasing. Fortunately, in view of his urgent call for an additional 4 billion, the Minister seems to be aware of this fact. Let us hope that the generals at the formation table will take this to heart. This money is urgently needed for military salaries. Our men and women, our warriors in uniform, are being sold by this government for lemons. A 1.4% increase means that with inflation soldiers go back on purchasing power. While there is a wage increase of between 2% and 4% in the collective agreement of civil servants, for example, for state officials or municipal officials. Every day, soldiers come to us with distress calls about their distressing financial situation. Especially when the corona crisis caused soldiers to stay home more often, they were faced with a lack of money. I have here the salary scales of soldiers in the army. You cannot see it here, but there is a complete angle of this scale below the minimum wage in civil society. Can the Minister morally justify that our military have been scaled down beyond the minimum wage? Would the Minister himself be willing to risk his life for these red cents for our country? How can we expect new crops to come? In the coming years, the Chamber will also have to discuss with the Minister the procurement of major material replacements. As far as BBB is concerned, the Minister's line must be clear. Contractors we do in the Netherlands, unless there is really no other way. These are billions of euros that can create thousands of jobs in the Netherlands in the production chain. This is about developing our own strategic knowledge, and this is a piece of pride. The Dutch Navy should sail with Dutch boats. We owe that to our stand. In the words of General Patton: "The soldier is the armed forces. No force is better than his soldiers. The soldier is also a civilian. In fact, carrying weapons for one's country is the highest calling and privilege of citizenship." But only 15% of the Dutch feel this calling and are willing to fight for this country. That is the lowest percentage in Europe, and I find that rather worrying. An organisation like the National Reserve could play an essential role in warming up Dutch people for our armed forces. In addition, through the National Reserve, we can also use specialist knowledge from society for Defence and have more hands available in times of national crisis. Does the Minister consider gross expansion and making the National Reserve more accessible? Can the Minister also give his opinion on the possibility of relaxing criteria when selecting new soldiers? It's not ideal, I realize, but with the current shortfalls, I'd rather we hire someone who scores just too low in the squeak test than we don't hire anyone. We need to move from "the computer says no" doctrine to "yes you can" society. You can make a recruit who is just unfit still suitable during his training. Finally. Can the Minister also explain whether the Ministry knows what financial and practical picture is needed in the event that we decide to re-start the service? Mr. Chairman. During the flood in Limburg we saw that farmers spontaneously jumped in with evacuation and assistance. They love to do this, and they'll always do this. It's called noaber shovel. But the armed forces and the National Reserve do not have enough people and enough trucks with the right height for all currents. They also do not always have far-sighted leadership from politics in The Hague. We need to work on this, because regional security cannot depend on farmers and their tractors, no matter how much I love these tractors. What role should the Secretary of Defense play in these cases? Defense is currently a neglected organization. It deserves a minister who believes in the potential of the armed forces. A minister standing next to the military instead of participating in the wild diversity story. Personally, I don't care if the army consists of all men, or all women, or all lhbti'ers, or a mix of everything. As far as BBB is concerned, there will be a quality quota. If you are suitable or suitable, you will be hired. Period. Of whatever sex, whatever race or sexual orientation you are. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Bromet wants a humanitarian force. I want, above all, a credible military force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr. Chairman. If something is to be done to serve the interests of the Netherlands, it is in the defence sector, but after 25 years of austerity we must be ashamed that the Dutch armed forces are no longer able to defend our country. As with many other ministries, the Defence Ministers' posts were populated by party bureaucrats who have little affinity with our armed forces. VVD Minister Wim van Eekelen was in 1988 the last Minister of Defense who had served: at the Huzaren van Boreel and waved off as first lieutenant. Afterwards, an insulting procession of pen lickers who have never had a backpack, fired a shot, walked a speed march or jumped out of a plane. That's what put our armed forces in a depravable state. Moreover, I am hopeful that the CDA has delegated second Lieutenant Boswijk to this cabinet, for which I congratulate the CDA. Perhaps that can still be taken into account in the formation. Mr. Chairman. We have never met the NATO standard of 2% of GDP, while Mark Rutte promised at the NATO summit in Brussels in 2018 that we would be at 2% by 2024. In previous years, we would be at 1.3% of GDP. Can the Minister explain why that promise has also been broken and when we will go to that 2% standard? Mr. Chairman. Former Secretary of State Barbara Visser calculated that 6 billion euros were needed to carry out the overdue maintenance of the military real estate. Can the Minister indicate how much has been implemented so far, how much is still open and how it has come to this? Mr. Chairman. Both the Navy and the Air Force as well as the Army indicate that there are major problems with high-quality and usable equipment and with the provision of fuel, ammunition, clothing and equipment to the Defence Parts. What is the Minister going to do about this in the short term? Does the Minister agree with the Dutch interest that this is totally unacceptable? Mr. Chairman. Then the military themselves. I still have a lot of contact with the men from my own platoon who have opted for a military career. There are compelling stories about foreign missions and I am proud of their experiences and adventures. But I'm really embarrassed when I hear what they deserve. It's a godforsaken shame that we're sending soldiers to black holes on our planet for a wage you can barely support a family of. A 1% raise. How dare the cabinet! An additional raise of 0.4%. What an insult. A training allowance of €36 per day, for which you are 24 hours a day away from home. What a shame. A temporary work allowance of €68 per day. I'm really wondering if anyone here, or the minister, is willing to go under fire for this alms. 7 billion for climate, 6 billion for development aid, 80 billion for corona aid and hundreds of billion for mass immigration, but not the decency to pay our own military a proper wage. While Defence has 9,000 vacancies, the sg comes with a women's quota and the minister with diversity and inclusiveness training. That's a hell of a game. Does the Minister agree with the Dutch interest that the current salary of military personnel is far below par? And what are we going to do about this? Can he indicate how much it would cost to agree, for example in the formation, that we would give a one-off wage increase of 10%, for example? We cannot expect our men and women to give their lives for an apple and an egg, while fellow officials in ministries earn twice as much. Mr. Chairman. We're all getting hundreds of cries from former soldiers sitting with an AOW hole. Would you be so kind as to say this through you, President-in-Office, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to finally resolve this? It is no longer possible to explain that we are now fucking these soldiers, who have served their entire lives. Mr. Chairman. Another question about the situation around corona, where the lack of ic-beds appears to be a crucial factor. In a number of years, through tough cuts, we've cut the number of civilian-ic beds in half. My question is this: does the armed forces have the capacity to play a role in this? How many military ic-beds could be added to the poor 950 beds of Hugo de Jonge via Defense? Finally, Mr President. The military has been undermined by wrong choices and no longer able to defend our country. The Commander of the Armed Forces and the Commanders of the Royal Navy, the Royal Army, the Royal Air Force and the Royal Marechaussee have sounded the alarm clock about the survival of our armed forces. Now, Defence itself has made a solid plan to move towards a full military force, in cooperation with Europe, but not dependent on the EU and certainly without an EU army. This plan was established in the Defence Vision 2035 and provided with a financial transfer. This Defense vision 2035, drawn up by the experts and the people with their feet in the mud, is crucial to the survival of our armed forces. Can the Minister promise that he will embrace the 2035 Defense Vision? For the sake of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u37	I thank Mr Van Haga. He was the last speaker today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-6.u38	We have come to the end of the first term of office. We are going to listen to the Minister's response tomorrow night. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
