ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the debate on the State of the European Union. First of all, welcome to the outgoing Prime Minister and to the outgoing Foreign Minister. Before I begin, there is a request from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr President, on a point of order, because it is a special debate. It is a debate on the state of the Union. It is not a debate on the Court's budget law or on legislation. We have the European Parliament's delegation leaders here today. I would like to ask my fellow Members whether they have no objection to us derogating from our Rules of Procedure in accordance with Rule 16 (3) and giving the leaders of delegations the opportunity to intervene, not only to ask enlightening questions. I understand, of course, that this is at the expense of the interruptions of the House of Representatives, with a view to time. But that's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you. I'm gonna say something about it first. I had incorporated it into my story. Maybe it's all right with you, Mr. Sjoerdsma, if I'd like to welcome the guests as well. It's customary to do that. You can already see how things are going here in the Lower House. I welcome all those present, the members of the cabinet, as I have just said, the members of the House of Representatives, but in particular the Dutch Members of the European Parliament who are taking part in this fine debate today. And, of course, welcome to the people who are currently following the debate. Once a year, the House of Representatives conducts a debate on the State of the Union. Today we are discussing cabinet policy on European issues. Today, the cabinet, the Lower House and the Dutch MEPs are discussing the European agenda for the current year. It is a special time to welcome the Members of the European Parliament to our House and to our Chamber. I also spoke to them briefly in advance and invited them to our new temporary accommodation, B67. So this is actually the last debate we have with the MEPs in this house. Before we go any further, I'd like to draw attention to the following. A long-standing loyal participant in this debate was also Mr Hans van Baalen. Hans unfortunately died on 29 April of this year. He would have just happened to have been his birthday today, too. I speak for many when I say he's missed. Hans van Baalen travelled to the Lower House almost every week as a MEP. He loved The Hague and Brussels as a former chamber member. He wanted to connect those worlds with each other, too. Hans has been of great value to his party, but also to national and international politics. We are therefore grateful to him for this. He would have followed this debate very closely today, even while it was his birthday. It wasn't meant to be. I wish his family, friends, loved ones and colleagues, because they still are, and those who are looking at this debate, very much strength, especially on a day like today. Again, it can hardly be a coincidence that today would be his birthday. I also see this debate as a tribute to Mr Hans van Baalen. Then I'd like to move on to the order of the day, the rules of the game. The Dutch Members of the European Parliament are not allowed to interfere with the members of the House of Representatives, the members of the Government or each other. There was just a request from Mr Sjoerdsma. I would also like to explain this briefly. The Dutch Members of the European Parliament have been invited by the Chamber to take part in the debate with the aim of providing information. Article 13.2 refers to the non-full participation in the debate, but I also understand that Members need a little more space. I am therefore prepared, although that is always up to the President, to allow a single factual question. For the sake of completeness, I also inform Members of the European Parliament that they cannot table or co-table motions. That is just a response from me to Mr Sjoerdsma's request. Mrs. Maeijer from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u4	Do you mind if I respond to that? I would like to object to that. We've drawn up regulations in this house. I appreciate it very much if we just maintain it the way the rules are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u5	Sure. The Rules of Procedure also indicate that the Dutch Members of our European Parliament can provide information and that it is up to the President to allow any interruption. I have said that I want to allow a single factual question, and not beyond that. Because that would mean asking for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. As guardian of the Rules of Procedure, I am not going to do that either. I understand there's been some discussion. He was there this morning, too. But that calls for a revision of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Roelofs... Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u6	Yes, I was just about to say that Mr Roelofs is undoubtedly someone else. But I understand the confusion. Mr. Chairman. I would like to simply have the traditional way of exchanging views with each other and not offer any additional space. If I put it in perspective, then this time it's a single informative question and next time it's a single arguing interruption. We shouldn't start with that. We just need to maintain the whole session, as we've known it so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u7	I really want to stop the debate on order which is beginning now, because I, as President, can exercise some freedom in this matter. I am not going as far as Mr Sjoerdsma has indicated. That really requires an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. But I am willing to allow a single question. I'll stick to that, too. Let's go to the first speaker. That's Mrs. Kamminga from the VVD. I would like to meet with the members of the House of Representatives: four questions and/or comments in the first term of the Chamber and four questions and/or comments to the Cabinet. First of all, Mrs Kamminga of the VVD has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to everyone. I'm not going to specifically name all the groups, because we only have a short time. Not so long ago, I was standing here for my maiden speech. Even then, I have spoken about the European Union in a more reflective sense. I'll do the same today. As far as I am concerned, the debate on the state of the European Union, which I think is a wonderful tradition, deserves a look beyond the delusion of the day. It is precisely at these times that we can discuss how to ensure a well-functioning Union. And that's what's needed. If we have seen one thing in the past, it is the importance of being able to operate effectively and quickly, especially in times of crisis. But also for our security, climate, migration, prosperity and health, the EU is of great importance to the Netherlands. I have read the cabinet commitment with interest. Although each subject in itself is sufficient for a wide-ranging debate, I have to admit that I was particularly struck by one passage. The chapeau text states: "For all these challenges, a Union capable of action is of great importance." The word "manageable" triggered me. We are usually talking about the EU within the framework of action or a playing field, a game ball or a player. Excuse me, chairman, I couldn't resist making any more reference to the European Championship football. I hope you'll forgive me. However, the word 'actionable' at least raised the question of whether the cabinet now considers the EU to be incapable of acting, and on what parts. Although I first had to get used to that term "I've become a creature of habit after these two months, I have to say that I'm going to get a feel for it. Because in the debates, should we not focus a little more on how to make the EU, if it is competent, more effective and effective, rather than, above all, discussing more or less powers? As far as the VVD is concerned, the current decision-making process on sanctions and human rights violations is at least eligible. It must not be the case that we are being crippled by a single country that has dual interests. We all know this isn't an imaginary scenario. I wish. The VVD has therefore taken an interest in the Spanish-Dutch non-paper about open, strategic autonomy. Could the Prime Minister perhaps say a little more about how to proceed now that Germany seems to want to move? In the debates on the non-paper, a lot of attention is always paid to this veto in foreign policy. As has been said, this is also important for us. But often the EU's internal market is also a powerful instrument. In an unstable world, where autocratic leaders are taking power ever further and taking advantage of the open economy, we as the EU must ensure a level playing field. We must prevent outside companies that are supported by their government from taking over the market here. If we do not, it will ultimately be at the expense of the competitiveness and innovative capacity of our companies and SMEs. We really shouldn't be naive about that. Does the Cabinet see any further opportunities to take steps here, for example through a topic such as access to raw materials and setting standards for digital technology? Mr. Chairman. The VVD is pleased that we have a solid line towards Russia and also China, and that, in addition to the opportunities that are certain, we also recognise the risks of cooperation. The relationship with China was particularly topical last week, partly as a result of President Biden's visit. I wonder if the Prime Minister can say a little more about what this apparent tightening up will mean for the Netherlands and the EU. Is it even a tightening-up? Or is it actually a continuation of an already established line? How is the cabinet looking at a more geopolitical use of OS and neighbourhood policy instruments? Too often it happens that the EU is the largest donor of aid to countries such as Serbia or Montenegro, but China or Russia succeeds in gaining influence with some visible projects. Shouldn't we be a little more proactive here as the EU? Moreover, we should introduce a little more reciprocity into opening up our markets or support funds, for example by agreeing on migration and withdrawing asylum seekers who have been processed. We in the European Union should really be able to act more strongly in this. Well, let's just talk about actuality, shall we? We have all taken note of developments in Russia, but also in Belarus, with great care. There, Protesevich and Sapega were picked from a plane that was forced to land without pardon. The VVD therefore finds it incomprehensible that, where we were finally able to send a strong signal quickly, the concrete translation into sanctions is still waiting. Next week we can expect a package, as Minister Kaag made clear yesterday. But then this morning we read again that Austria wants to exclude the financial sector, so that Belarus can get foreign loans again. How do we prevent partial interests from hindering a solid package? Surely the cabinet must agree with me that we are not here with just statements, and that an infringement like this really deserves a quick and decisive action? There is also cause for concern within the EU. One of the basic foundations of the EU, the democratic rule of law, is no longer self-evident for countries such as Poland and Hungary. Yet this week the news came across that Hungary is banning the promotion of homosexuality. That is one of so many examples of recent times. The most wretched thing about all this is that, despite all kinds of good intentions, we in the EU do not seem to succeed in giving consequences to these kinds of violations. Sure, we started an Article 7 procedure, but our taxpayers' money is still flowing towards these countries. In previous debates, the cabinet explained that there is a flash pole where there is also a flash, only the fines are paid later. As far as the VVD is concerned, that should be the other way around. For example, in anticipation of a ruling by the Court, can we not yet pay out some of the funds? Because we all know that reclaiming is a lot more complex than providing. Europe is not an à la carte nu, and it is time for us to take it seriously. I began by saying that a well-functioning Union is important for the Netherlands to meet a number of major cross-border challenges. We will still have to work hard in the coming years to get our economies healthy and running again. The latest figures, both in terms of corona and in terms of expected economic growth, are encouraging in this respect, but we are not yet there. Finally, another major challenge facing us is to maintain the Union's support for our citizens. The usefulness and necessity of the EU is not always evident to them. We, too, as politicians like ourselves here today, have an important role to play in the way we conduct that debate. At least I feel committed to that. Moreover, the recent conference on the future of Europe offers a great opportunity to hear what the citizens think. So I'm curious what insights that gives. I hope that this will provide solutions in particular to the problems that we face now and that we will not get mixed up in long institutional discussions that will only be polarising. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u9	Thank you, Mrs Kamminga. I shall now give the floor to Mr Azmani. There is another interruption, excuse, Mrs Kamminga, of the Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u10	It is good to hear that in this debate we can look beyond the delusions of the day and that we must also look at where the European Union is indeed capable of acting, to ensure that we can actually tackle today's major challenges. One of these challenges is to ensure that the big tech companies in this world pay a fair tax. So I was wondering, when Mrs Kamminga looks at the ability of the European Union to act, how she looks at the collection of taxes, precisely to ensure that these big tech companies are going to contribute to the economic prosperity she was talking about for the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. Dassen, through the chairman, for your question. You may not have had the time to read our electoral programme, but this is a good opportunity to explain it here. We have also said that we want to do something about these big tech companies. Where there has to be a distinction is where the tax falls. Because I'm not quite sure, I'm not going to interpret for Mr. Dassen, but I could just imagine that we should have another discussion about that. If we collect them, where will these taxes end up? But that we have to look at this is also part of my speech about the competitive market and is also particularly seen on these platforms, which enter our market and which we ourselves have little to say about. I hope that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u12	That was indeed unclear in the electoral programme, because I do believe that the European Union should be given the power to ensure that we are able to impose a fair burden on those tech companies. I think we would be much stronger in that than if we only wanted it in the Netherlands. But I also have another question, which is also an important one, about beyond the delusion of the day. It is difficult to summarize that in a few minutes in a contribution here to the debate. But what we do see is that in other countries, this debate on the European Union is being conducted much more and that much further forward is being looked at. This morning we also briefly discussed the European Stability Mechanism, which could possibly be transformed into a European IMF, which is now being discussed in Germany. I wonder how Mrs Kamminga looks at that, but above all whether she has any ideas to ensure that we are going to have much more of these discussions in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u13	I feel very committed, as I said in my speech, in order to engage in a good dialogue with this debate. That is why I have chosen to start a bit with a more contemplative story. Next week we will have the opportunity to zoom in on specific things. Of course, as a VVD, we always attach great importance to the Stability and Growth Pact, we welcome the warmth that we sometimes all talk about standing for the rule of law, and we hope that we will do so once in a while when it comes to agreements on that stability pact. To respond to Mr Dassen, I was also in another debate on Europe yesterday. So as far as I am concerned, good news is being discussed, almost in every room here, about Europe. At that time I looked at what the Minister of Finance had to say, with a slanted eye, especially on these issues which he appreciates. There he said, and I think that is a sensible line: be careful what you wish for. We can look at it, it may not be quite perfect yet, but once you change this, you know what you get. Because then everyone has their wishes. So I'm reluctant to go down that path. I think it's a sensible line. The Minister of Finance will be presenting a more detailed statement shortly, and I would like to wait and see. But really big plans? I would say: let's make sure that we stick to what is now, because on a mountain of debt you can't build an economy. That is what we really think is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u14	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azmani, European Parliament, VVD. I say to our guests that we occasionally clean up between the different speakers. I hope that Mr Azmani heard what I said: between the companies we sometimes clean up. It is also important to observe the 1.5 meter distance. Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u15	Mr. Chairman. We all long for a normal summer. The outlook is getting better and better. Infections are dropping and vaccination rates are rising. The restrictive measures will slowly disappear and travel within or within the European Union will be possible again. That's a fantastic feeling, because we've come a long way. People need freedom again. It is therefore also a privilege to be here to emphasise the importance of a strong Netherlands in a stable and strong Europe. Last week, in Europe, we agreed on the European digital travel certificate. It facilitates travel within the EU; something that was so common, but the pandemic could hardly do more. No more crossing the border to work, or testing on a daily basis when you go to work. No more shopping across the border or, as an entrepreneur, can't deliver your stuff or get that job done. The pandemic attacked us, but we also saw how European countries were stronger together through joint procurement of vaccines and the spread of covid patients. We need to learn lessons from this crisis so that we in the EU are better armed against it in the future. Mr. Chairman. I think self-reflection is an important feature in politics. While the Netherlands recently had to sit at home and keep their distance, it sometimes seems as if politics has come to a distance again. People expect us to listen to them, to do something about them and to show courage and leadership. As far as I am concerned, leadership means being clear about the challenges ahead. The free, happy Netherlands and safe Europe are no longer self-evident. Democracy is under pressure. Our way of life is under pressure. None of these crises solves the Netherlands alone. None of these challenges can be addressed by the Netherlands alone. I am convinced that we must tackle the great opportunities and challenges together with our partners in the Union. Collaboration of your own interest, if you will. We are forced to look with different eyes, at the world but also at ourselves. 83% of the Dutch indicate that the Netherlands is stronger within the European Union than outside, but how do we make this concrete? What choices do we make? How do we keep migratory flows under control? How do we keep the cost of climate transition manageable for families? How do we guarantee our security against the power politics of Russia and China? How do we strengthen our economy and exploit the opportunities of digitalisation? We need to reinvent ourselves to meet the challenges of our time. A great opportunity for this is the conference on the future of Europe. Yeah, you heard right. I see this as an excellent opportunity, not to talk about puppets and institutions or to bring in European crown jewels, but rather an opportunity to engage in dialogue with the EU's residents on where their priorities, challenges, concerns and threats lie, in short, where the European Union is of added value to them. How do we jointly prepare for that future, which knows threats but also offers so many great opportunities? Mr. Chairman. I therefore regret that the Dutch government is only going to update an investigation by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau in 2018 and to use its means of communication to disseminate the existence of the conference. I think there's so much more in it. I hope the House of Commons will take this glove further. I've already seen a number of motions. As I said, I'm from self-reflection. So what can I do for myself? What can my party do? I think that we, the VVD, should use this opportunity to have a conversation. That is why I would like to seize this opportunity to organise, together with our spokesman in the Lower House, Roelien Kamminga, whom you have already heard, a series of meetings to conduct this dialogue throughout the country. That's what we do with advocates, opponents, young and old. Everyone should be welcome. We do so after the summer, of course, so that everyone has once again enjoyed some freedom and all that beauty that our own country and Europe have to offer. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank you, also on behalf of my party, for your fine words about the late Hans van Baalen. We're gonna miss him a lot. It is extraordinary to have this debate with each other today, on his own birthday, as you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u16	Thank you. There is a factual question from Mr Eppink. The other way around: no interruption, but simply ask a short, factual question. Mr. Eppink of JA21, that's gonna work. You're setting the bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u17	Perhaps I should remind Mr Azmani that the European Commission's procurement policy on vaccines was not a great success. You're selling it like it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u18	Your actual question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u19	So my question is that this was not a success and that it took Europe 50 days to reach the pace of the United States and Great Britain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u20	I do not share that with Mr Eppink. Of course you always have a bit of a delay in the start-up, but in the end we will ensure that we have enough vaccinations and vaccines in the European Union. Unlike the United States and the UK, we have not only taken care of ourselves. This is a pandemic, so it goes cross-border. We were still willing to provide other parts of this world with vaccines. That seems to me to be a better and more sensible policy, even for the longer term, than just going for yourself, which Mr Eppink seems to be in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u21	Thank you, but again, we do not interrupt. It's just a factual question and an answer. It is difficult not to judge the different subjects. Mr. Van Dijk of the SP, you also have factual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u22	The opportunity to interrupt Mr Azmani is something I do not miss. I'm really glad he's here again today. In his previous life as a Member of Parliament, he was strongly in favour of a firm asylum policy. He didn't want any more asylum applications in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u23	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u24	Then he came to the European Parliament and came up with a plan in which he said: no, we, as Europe, must take responsibility with reception centres. I hope that's also to end this mess on Lesbos. Is it right that you've come to your senses?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u25	No, I'm afraid that's not the case. I'm sorry to disappoint you. But, of course, it's all about doing it in a decent way. We prefer to do it legally rather than by keeping a system in the air in which we do it illegally with all the great dramas of that time. That's what we need to avoid. In that sense, I say do so outside the borders and preferably in our own region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u26	Thank you. Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 also has an informative question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u27	I'd like it to be preceded by a compliment, if that's okay. I wanted to congratulate Mr Azmani on his very pro-European story. I also very much hope that the Prime Minister has listened to this and that Mr Azmani's party will not decide to disbar him from this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u28	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u29	I come to my actual question, Madam President. As a result of his self-reflection, I would ask Mr Azmani to apply some self-reflection to the VVD's vote on Mr Babis. It is corruption with EU funds, but the VVD Group in the European Parliament has said: we do not want to condemn this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u30	In fact, we abstained. That has everything to do with the fact that the investigation is still ongoing. And we are a party that awaits investigations before making any political conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u31	Mr President, through you I would like to welcome Mr Azmani to the place where it all began for him. I also have a question about migration policy. Mr Azmani had a strong opinion on migration policy, including at European level. I was wondering: what happened to that in the European Parliament? Has it become a disillusionment for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u32	It's not disillusionment, but I do notice that we have to work hard with each other to ensure that we get control of our migratory flows. We are working hard on this in the European Parliament. It is also partly with the Council. That's where the blame lies. I think it is very necessary and I do not want to wait for another crisis and then have to take action again. I want to prevent that from happening. I believe that there is a package from the Commission that allows us to take major steps. In the light of the VVD, in my view, things can certainly be improved. But the Commission's proposals to control migration are moving in the right direction. We have to do it in a decent, human and humane way and not in the way we do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u33	There is also a factual question from Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u34	I can quite understand that if you, as a former MP, go to the European Parliament, you will become more pro-European in your thinking. But I also noticed with Mrs Kamminga that the VVD has reduced its Euroscepticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u35	And your actual question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u36	My question is whether this has to do with the increased geopolitical struggle for raw materials, technology, medicine production. Can you indicate what movement was recently made in the VVD? I welcome this movement in itself, but perhaps it can be explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u37	Parties think about topics. Every political party has that. That develops over time. The VVD of course always remains critical. We always look at what's going on with a critical look. Not every proposal from Europe is a good proposal. We will always be critical, but we have very big issues to solve with each other. As a party, we are very realistic about that. We can't do that on our own. The Dutch and our ideas and proposals are usually the right ones. That's how we operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u38	Thank you, Mr Azmani, for your contribution. Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u39	Mr President, I too would like to thank you for your words on Mr Van Baalen, an international liberal of class. It is good to consider his legacy and his next of kin today. Mr. Chairman. The debate today is about the future of the Netherlands for the European Union. That is an urgent question. That is why I welcome the opportunity to exchange views not only with our fellow MEPs in the House of Representatives but also with the European Parliament's delegation leaders today. Welcome! The challenge is to agree on what role the Netherlands could and should play in the world in the European Union and the European Union. What choices do we want to make in the interests of all those Dutch who rely on the Union to provide for their security and prosperity? How are we going to change this Union? How are we going to strengthen it and improve it for the coming decades? Mr. Chairman. We're at a crossroads. Are we going in the direction of the British, who have for years been passing on to Europe, who refuse to recognise or explain the benefits, and who attribute the disadvantages to faceless bureaucrats in Brussels? Do parties continue to cry with the Farage-like types in this parliament, at Forum and at PVV, do they continue to flirt with the nextit and hitting on a departure from the euro? The Netherlands must not go down that road; our interests are too great for that. We cannot, as Cameron, sleepwalking out of the Union. We can also go for a Netherlands that takes the lead in the Union, that takes the wheel, that takes the gas pedal and does not constantly look for the brake. We can also go for a Union that is at the forefront of the world, which protects our jobs, fights climate change and keeps Dutch people safe. You won't be surprised that D66 chooses the latter. We then have a triple task: to increase the Union's impact, to tackle the concrete rot in the Union and to be honest about what choices it entails. Mr. Chairman. First of all, with regard to increasing the impact force. The corona crisis has made it clear that our factories will cease as soon as our trade with the world fails, that more and more of our technology and medicines come from China, that more and more of what we first made in Europe, for example car parts, is now being made in Asia. The result is that our high-quality industry, and hence employment, is slowly disappearing towards Asia. This is not only an economic problem, but also a geopolitical problem. China is an assertive world power, which exploits every crisis to increase its grip on the world, and hence on the Netherlands and Europe. If we continue unchanged, we can wake up in a world where Europe has neither the knowledge nor the ability to develop mobile phones, solar panels or medicines itself. We'll put our safety on China. I would therefore like to make a number of points. Should we not invest more in our own technicalities? Should we not ensure that we protect our market access from companies that try to compete with outside aid? Is there not a need for a sanction regime for companies that first come here to steal the intellectual property of certain companies, who then use it to develop another company in a country like China, and then try to compete with state aid for our own companies? We need to break these companies in the bud. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? Increasing impact is also about our safety. After taking the side of autocracy for four years, America now looks back on the world stage. But after Trump's wake-up call, we can't press the snooze button right now. We need to learn our own ways. The urgency of growing up simply cannot be large enough. Russia continues to rage in our backyard, I have just mentioned China, and dictators dictate enough division to take European aircraft out of the sky. The support for European action is unprecedented. What is the Netherlands going to do in concrete terms to get the veto out of foreign policy? What initiatives will the Netherlands take? I also ask whether ever closer defence cooperation in the European area, what is needed to guard our borders and our territory, does not mean that the Netherlands should specialise in the defence field and we should move towards a division of roles. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the rot. Yesterday, we discussed in detail the concrete rot in the European Union: autocrats that break down the rule of law. That's contagious. From Hungary and Poland this is now heading towards Slovenia, but here too in the Netherlands we have politicians who see journalists as scumbags of the ledge, as enemies to attack. Here in the Netherlands, too, we have parties who want to take away people's rights. This means that we are fighting to protect the rule of law in Europe not only for the sake of Budapest and Warsaw, but also for the sake of The Hague. My request and my question to the Prime Minister is therefore: how are you going to ensure that the rule of law mechanism is deployed against Hungary and Poland as soon as possible? I am also looking at Mr In 't Veld and other European colleagues who have worked hard for this. I also ask what we can do to stop funding towards Poland and Hungary, so that these autocrats cannot distribute financial gifts to their people in the run-up to the elections. Not cohesion gifts from the Cohesion Fund, not shortcuts to victory, but action by the European Union to ensure that money does not go to these people. That's our taxpayers' money. That is well spent in Europe when it comes to combating the major problems, which is very badly spent on this kind of corruption. Finally. What does that mean? Wish and implementation are too often different when it comes to the European Union, including in this Chamber. In every crisis, we fall over each other in the interrupting microphone and say that the European Union must intervene, but when it comes to the choices that this entails, the European Union's powers, are honest about what that entails, or blockages that our national leaders sometimes impose in Brussels, we remain silent. I would like to quote Klaas Knot, the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, in his H.J. Shoe-reading. He advocated a fair choice for further integration, with the benefits of Europe also being fairer in our society. In his closing remarks, he recalled Jacques Delors' words: chance sometimes helps, but courage always helps. I think that is a very clear statement of the dilemma facing us. We must choose as the Netherlands. Either we walk out of this Union sleepwalking, or we are going to make sure that we can fight above our weight on the world stage, as the Netherlands and as the European Union. The choice D66 makes at this point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u40	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u42	Then I give the floor to Mrs Sophie in 't Veld, European Parliament, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u43	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, excellence. The last time the State of the European Union was considered in this house, Europe was in a very different position than it was today. Taking from silence before the storm to damage after the storm, while we are still not in safe haven. Almost all the qualities and defects of our European ship have been mercilessly exposed by a virus that is not visible to the naked eye. We are a great seaworthy ship, but with 27 captains also quite pilotless. A Europe of 27 Hugo de Jonges, which competes with each other for masks and which find a common European card with colour codes even too much Brussels interference. The result: Europe as a colourful patchwork, a labyrinth of national corona rules that no human being can yet understand. On the contrary, the European Parliament has made itself very united, with all the political groups from left to right, for the corona certificate, without any additional national obstacles and with as many free tests as possible. For us, the importance of the people was leading, for the Member States the fearful monitoring of subsidiarity. But there is hope, because I heard Mr Eppink say that he wants a clear European competence in the field of public health. So progress. A Dutch family who wants to go on holiday in Italy this summer has little use in ensuring that subsidiarity is guaranteed if we are faced with unexpected national restrictions, quarantine or additional tests. Although the Member States now have a loose agreement not to impose any additional restrictions, where the European Parliament wanted binding rules, hopefully the Member States will keep their own words so that everyone can travel unhindered. We see this fragmentation in many areas. This makes Europe weak, while the common challenges are enormous. Think of climate change, think of economic recovery. By the way, we have no guarantee of an eternally low interest rate. Think of restraining the techs or the next provocation of Putin. And yet Prime Minister Rutte, together with eleven small countries, signed a letter saying that reform of the European Union is not the issue. A bit like: Europe is fine, nothing else to do about it. While a child can see that this isn't right. Why does the Netherlands not join the vanguard, for example Germany? I am very pleased that your Chamber has adopted the Sjoerdsma motion which states that the Netherlands should not reject a treaty amendment in advance. The Netherlands must be at the forefront, also for our values. Last year, Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Hoekstra gave priority to a reduction in the Dutch EU contribution. They demanded measures against the Greeks and the Italians, an emergency brake and conditions regarding their budget, but Orbán and Kaczynski were left alone. Tough talk for the camera, but sign at the negotiating table at the cross. The Netherlands accepted to my regret that the Council, under pressure from Orbán and co, has put the rule of law mechanism in the refrigerator. It is nice and good to condemn Orbán's anti-gay law, but it is even nicer and better to turn off the subsidy crane for him. The European Parliament wants to force the Commission, through the European courts, to effectively activate the constitutional condition of the budget. I sincerely hope that the Netherlands will join in this. Finally, Mr President. I hope that the formation will produce a cabinet, in whatever composition, that the Netherlands will return to the European vanguard, with ambition. That is in the best interest of all of us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u44	Thank you, Mrs. In 't Veld. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking here in the annual debate on the state of the Union. Although sometimes the world seemed to stand still in the last corona year, the train in Brussels cheered on. Once again, we see a crisis as a catalyst for further European integration, for the transfer of sovereignty and for billions of transfers. The corona crisis over the past year has proved to be a tremendous blow to a more political union. Almost a year ago, the EU's biggest power take-up took place in years: a EUR 750 billion recovery fund, consisting of loans and grants, and an EU multi-year budget of around EUR 1,000 billion, while at the same time a Member State left. On behalf of the Netherlands, the Prime Minister promised billions of Dutch taxpayers' money. Billions disappearing mainly in the pockets of southern European countries, which we will never see again and which the Italian mob is already preying on. As a result of this seizure of power, a number of unelected Eurocrats were also empowered to make and borrow debts themselves on the capital market. All Member States guarantee. It was decided to introduce new own resources, which they have been warming up to in Brussels for a long time, and which, in particular, makes the European Parliament somewhat greedy. In the end, what they like to put in place in Brussels is "the provision of help": the acquisition of power. With a pin stroke, we were messed up a little further into the transfer union and the powers of the European Union were extended. The new budget and the Recovery Fund proved to be the kick-off for more. In September last year, during the State of the Union in the European Parliament, President Von der Leyen seized her opportunity to make a bombastic and, I believe, an hour and a half long speech as a kind of head of state. While the reality is that the Union is struggling from crisis to crisis, it too, like its predecessors, reflected a great future ahead of us, with the Union's glory days ahead. The only thing that would be needed, of course, is for us to give the European institutions more power. For example, the Commission wants to shift powers in the field of health care. In addition to a security union, a climate union and an energy union, there must also be a health union, with a leading epidemiologist, and a digital union. Where would the idea of the EU moving towards a federal state come from? Therefore, no reflection after the departure of a Member State. No, the corona crisis was a good time to launch ambitious programs, like that monstrous Green Deal by Frans Timmermans. A bizarrely comprehensive and far-reaching dictation to make the whole EU climate neutral. We have to drive electric, we have to fly less, we have to eat less meat and, above all, we have to pay for it. While Frans Timmermans dictates to ordinary citizens that they should fly less, Commission President Von der Leyen travels half the Union these days at our expense. Afterwards she travels to Portugal, Spain, Denmark, Greece and Luxembourg. I'm sure there'll be more trips. I'm sure that won't be on the train. That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. Is it gonna be the line flight or not the private jet? She's doing that as part of a real recovery tour. "You can go to the bank," she would have laughed at the Portuguese Prime Minister. Spend our money: they're good at that, right there in Brussels. Meanwhile, the first sounds are already about making the fund permanent. I'd like the commitment that this isn't going to happen. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the European Union has driven the Swiss away, but Turkey is being kept to its breasts. Because whatever he does, the EU is still being taken by Erdogan. The country is still a candidate country and the money tap is still open. Blackmail with the opening of the migration crane is rewarded with a new deal. Nothing has been learned from the asylum invasion brought about by Brussels in 2015. Once again, the proposal was launched after a proposal, and the crisis was used to push through its own agenda, namely facilitating migration. Half-hearted and ridicule measures such as a sound cannon reduce the European external borders to an open invitation to everything and everyone. Meanwhile, 46,000 asylum seekers who would have to leave the country on the basis of EU agreements are still in the Netherlands. When will we finally come to the conclusion that we must stop listening to Brussels and simply start conducting our own immigration policy? Mr. Chairman. Problem too much in the current Union, you might think. Despite this, we want to take further steps in the negotiations, through accession to the Union of North Macedonia and Albania. While recently the figure of EUR 1.1 billion has disappeared in the pockets of Romanian politicians, businessmen and bureaucrats, they now want to take new steps in raking in number 104 and number 111 of the 180 respectively, I say on the corruption index. Three guesses who's going to pay for it if these countries are eventually transferred to the EU. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the cabinet is working well with its own proposals to give the Union more power, namely by partially abolishing our veto on foreign policy. This applies not only to human rights and sanctions. Minister Kaag, just now Foreign Minister, also indicated yesterday that there is room for manoeuvre in the field of civilian missions. In this respect, unfortunately, the Chamber has not put any obstacles in its way. My question would therefore be: are there any other policy areas that you would like to offer? I hold my heart for what comes when Verhofstadt's friends are accompanied by the left in a new cabinet. That's going to be europhile squared. Finally, Mr President. Finally, we get our freedom back little by little. We must cherish that freedom. We must not allow the European Union to take away from us the freedom to determine our own future. We must not allow less and less room to determine our own policies. As far as the Party for Freedom is concerned, we're getting out of here, so we're gonna have to get out of here. But as long as we're still in it, we shouldn't go along with that ever-increasing political union. As long as we are in it, we are committed to receiving rather than paying, to retaining our right of veto and to regaining powers, to preserving and regaining our sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u46	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma for an interruption. Mr Sjoerdsma had to get started, but it really is an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u47	Yes, a real interruption! I have a question. You just gave up on all the lands. You mentioned the corruption index. None of these were good countries. I would like to ask you this. Mr Wilders applauded Hungary. I would like to ask you what your party really admires about Hungary. Is that anti-gay law? Is that how they deal with journalists? Is that the way democratic elections are made impossible? Is that the way in which judges are made impossible? I am very curious to see what the PVV admires about Mr Orbán and his policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u48	First of all, about corruption: the corruption I was just talking about, for example the 1.1 billion that has disappeared in Romanian pockets, is created by the whole transfer union that you are so in favour of, by the fact that everyone who becomes a member gets uncontrolled money from us. You want to add Albania and Northern Macedonia again. That's one. That's the corruption I meant. We want to get out of there. We object to this whole transfer union. As far as I am concerned, all these countries are not receiving any money at all. We want out. I don't want to give money to anyone. That is Dutch tax money; we have to spend it in our own country. What we admire about Hungary is the fact that it is a sovereign country. Of the content of the laws you can find anything, but it is a sovereign country with an elected government that makes its own laws there. Then who am I to say something about that? Who are we, then, to feel morally elevated and to wave our fingers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u49	Yeah, who are we to feel morally elevated... You don't wave that finger at all; that's the problem, of course. You're complimenting...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u50	No, but you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u51	Mr Sjoerdsma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u52	You're complimenting Hungary. You think that's a great example. Your political foreman, Mr Wilders, does not miss a chance to take a picture with Mr Orbán in the summer. If he sees him, he'll spontaneously fall into a jubilee mood. Of course, Hungary is sovereign, as sovereign as the Netherlands, I would say. I'm a little more proud of the Netherlands than Hungary. I ask you what you admire about Hungary. That cannot only be sovereignty, because if that is the only thing, you will ignore all the anti-gay legislation, the journalists who are being put in the corner there, the judges who are being dismissed, the universities that are being bullied away, and I can go on for a while. That's where Dutch taxpayers' money goes, and you're cheering it up. Explain that to the hardworking Rotterdammer in the port. Explain to someone who works in the logistics chain in Venlo that that tax money goes to Hungary with your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u53	It is of course funny that you ask me and say that tax money goes to Hungary and all those other countries with my consent or with the consent of the PVV. We're a party that wants to get out of there. I want the money back. I want to spend it in the Netherlands. I do not want money to go to Spain, Italy, Hungary or anything else. And as has been pointed out on many occasions: what we admire in Hungary or in Mr Orban was at the time closing the borders, standing in front of our own people and saying 'no, stop, we can't do this anymore and we won't do this anymore'. Furthermore, I would like to say once again that it is a sovereign country. Who the hell are we to stand here waving a finger about what is going on in a constitutional state? I would like to ask you, however, that was also discussed earlier in the debate in order to have some self-reflection. Let us please deal with our own problems and with our own rule of law. Let's deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u54	I'm willing to show that self-reflection when asked, but I'm asking you now. I ask why an autocrat, someone who has dictatorial tendencies in Europe, is your hero. Seriously, you will explain to all those voters here in the Netherlands why this man is your hero. Explain to them why you're against Ihbti'ers. Explain it to them. Your party foreman also talks here about "skill of the ledge" when it comes to journalists. So I can see where that admiration comes from: Mr Wilders has the same tendency. But you can explain to them why you support this man. You can't explain it. You're just saying this between the nose and the lips. You don't have the guts to defend it either. Do you know what that is? That's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u55	I think you're a member of a party that's pretty much invented hypocrisy. Please, let's not talk about that. I mean, you blame me for... the time I had heroes is a lot of years ago for me personally, when posters were hanging on the wall of pop stars. So I'm not going to go over that threshold. But, you know, I find it bizarre that we, as a Dutch Parliament, are having whole debates about what is happening in other countries in their rule of law, while there is so much to improve in our own rule of law. That's hypocritical, isn't it? Surely we have more time to spend than to deal with other countries? We have more work to do, don't we? Isn't that what your message should be to all those Dutch voters who feel betrayed by what happened in that surcharge affair? Surely you should be concerned with that, with the fact that your minister is bringing terrorists back or that money is being given to terrorist organisations? Those are the things we need to solve, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u56	Mrs Maeijer, I did not want to give Mr Sjoerdsma a chance to ask another question, but now I think it is getting more personal. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u57	If Mrs Maeijer says that we should talk about the rule of law of the Netherlands, I say this to her. Her foreman calls this parliament "a fake parliament." Her foreman's talking about "D66 judges." Her foreman calls journalists "stuff of the ledge." If there is a party deliberately undermining the rule of law in the Netherlands, then that is Mrs Maeijer's PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u58	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. That's what I'm doing to stay on today's topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the MEPs of all parties in this beautiful house. The European Union comes from a dense fog in 2021. The pandemic has had a major impact on the economy, our climate ambitions and global geopolitical relations. The changes in the world have accelerated or slowed down. I see European Heads of Government who have seized the state of emergency to strengthen power in their own country. I see a European Council that has rigged up an unprecedented recovery fund. I see a greater awareness among people that the world is connected and I see increasing geopolitical tensions. The pandemic seems to be a political quick cooker, and we just have to see if we can get out. My group sees it as an opportunity, an opportunity for Europe to take global leadership, to implement necessary reforms and to be an added value where it is needed. I would like to emphasise that young people in the Netherlands, in particular, see the future in European cooperation and see it as essential for our prosperity and sustainable future. In addition to the Dutch flag, this generation also likes to wave the European flag with pride. The Conference on the Future of Europe began as a continental response to the Brexit, but has become an opportunity by the pandemic to make Europe future-proof. The choices we make next year will be crucial. I have already said in the other debate that the Netherlands and the Dutch Government must be proactive in this, and the Chamber must also be included. The non-paper written by the Netherlands and Spain is a constructive contribution to the future of Europe. But I want the Chamber to be more involved in drawing up such papers, and I want more follow-up on the content of those papers. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The CDA embraces Europe as a community of values and as an economic carrier. My group's priorities lie in the search for a greater awareness of our global and European cohesion, the need to make our vital economy resilient and agile, the increasing impact of digital disruption and social manipulation, the global health agenda and the shared climate challenges. We need to reform Europe so that our economy, our security and a sustainable future for our children are guaranteed. There's a lot of work to be done for that. I dislike the nationalistic sounds that place the Netherlands on an island in the turbulent world. The closing of the shutters doesn't keep this storm out, and makes us cramp. Of course everything isn't going well. We see that European decision-making is mainly held hostage on foreign territory. We are seeing increasing such tensions in Ireland due to the Brexit. To some careless politicians I would say: that is the price of the Brexit. For others, where I join myself, it is proof that cooperation leads to peace, and that removal from one another gives uncertainty and instability. I am also thinking of the European rule of law, which is really not good for it. An ever longer line of countries that capitalise on freedoms and governments that draw power towards them: it gives an echo from a dark past that we must not ignore. I would also like to mention the growing anti-Semitism. We also do not seem to be able to control the issue of migration in southern Europe. I really hope that there is a sense that it is a common task, and that it is not the misfortune of Spain, Italy and Greece, that they are accidentally on the Mediterranean. I do not read very much about this in the State of the Union. For the CDA, European cooperation on many of these essential issues is the way to safeguard our own interests. Mr. Chairman. Europe does not touch modesty. For more than is currently the case, Europeans are allowed to embrace their own economies with their breasts in the front. We are highly innovative, have high climate standards and also have rich social traditions. Europe sets standards for products and production processes worldwide. The downside is China's interference into our European economy. We must stop being naive, and we must protect and secure our essential manufacturing industry and economic infrastructure. This can not only be done at national level, but must be done at European level. That is why I call for an investment in our European economy, not only financially but also politically. We need to draw up a plan that gives substance to a level playing field within Europe and to a strong Europe in the global economy vis-à-vis China and the US. The new European industrial policy is a good move. How can we, even as the Netherlands, strengthen our position as a technology hub for Northern Europe? Mr. Chairman. Europe must be an international player and not itself the playing field. The government recently said that. Europe is important for our prosperity, but it also plays an increasingly important role worldwide as a guardian of peace. China is assertive and the US is calling for more and more autonomous action by the EU. This change in the playing field should be seen as an opportunity to reform Europe and create a new place for Europe on the world stage. I see Europe as a mediator for international law in the world. The EU should have more self-confidence in this, because it is, also through this soft power, the important reasonable middle between China's extreme needs and the huge economic and military power of the US. The cabinet also wants to mobilise more military force in the EU. That is why the CDA calls for the establishment of a European Security Council, including the British. I'd like an explanation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u60	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I shall now give the floor to Mrs De Lange, European Parliament CDA. No, there is another question to Mr Amhaouch, I see, from Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u61	Thank you, Mr President, and excuse me, because I have to come in from the back. Like the contribution of the VVD, the contribution of the CDA has been very good for me. Europe as a global leader. And indeed there are many Dutch youngsters who grew up without the guilder and like to see the European flag flapping. We need to be proactive and involve the Chamber more, with the chest forward. I hope that we now hear this from the CDA not only in the debate on the State of the European Union, but also in other committees, so that we can really be proactive in doing so. You also mentioned reforms, and I was wondering if you would also see reforms for the European Union, so that we can move forward with that breast and take European global leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u62	Mr Dassen is a Member of Parliament, but he is doing very well. Compliments for his input, especially in the European field. But the Christian Democrats are one of the founders of Europe; Robert Schuman, 1950. These are the fundamental principles of the European Union, and we still stand for them as CDA, our delegation in Europe. We will always be ahead of ourselves when it comes to Europe, but we will also be on our guard if things go wrong in the area of the rule of law or naivety. If the Chinese or other superpowers want to influence or disrupt Europe, then we Christian Democrats will also show our teeth. I agree that we will have to reform. We recently supported Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. We're not gonna set any blockades in advance. Let's investigate what we need to be able to act decisively. Europe is among the great powers, whether China, Russia or America, but we need to be able to act properly and proactively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u63	Glad to hear it. I look forward to working with Mr Amhaouch in the coming period to improve the European Union, in the spirit of Schuman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u64	Mr Dassen's interruption gave me a little more opportunity to think and come back to the EU Security Council, including the British. Let me ask you a factual question about this. What exactly does Mr Amhaouch mean by that? Is that, instead of NATO, besides NATO, how do you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u65	Not to mention whether it is next to NATO; certainly NATO we have, but more importantly, the question of why. We always have why, how and what, but this is about why. Are we today able to respond adequately, including in our foreign policy, as 27 countries, 28-1, to guarantee Europe's security? We can't right now. I think it is very good to think about it, if we can indeed come to a European Security Council, which can ensure security within Europe, but also to respond adequately to the evils of outside Europe, so that we do not go into the field of security in Europe, because then I fear that we will lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u66	For the record: Dutch MPs are allowed to debate and interfere with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u67	Sure. I meant cynically that I wanted to limit myself to that, but Mr Amhaouch is challenging me now. I partly agree with him that it can be done more effectively, as I have said in my own plea, especially on the points raised. I just wonder if that means that the Council is not working in this area now, regardless of whether it is with or without a veto, because you will always keep it, and that does not solve such an EU Security Council. Do you want something to replace that? That puzzles me a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u68	I think it is and-and that, in a security council with a particular mandate, you can act faster and more decisively. Perhaps it is also a good thing that Europe should have a permanent seat in the Security Council at the United Nations, regardless of the European Security Council. That would be very good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Anhaouch. I shall now give the floor to Mrs De Lange, the European Parliament on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start this debate with a 'you're welcome' towards our Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. Indeed, the state of the Union is satisfied that an agreement on a strong constitutional condition in the European budget has been reached in the last year. This is an important priority for the government, and rightly so, because solidarity also involves responsibility. What it does not say is that this would not have been possible without the continued pressure of the European Parliament. What you failed to achieve in the Council was fought for each other by us; so you are welcome. Mr. Chairman. I agree with a lot of what is written in the State of the European Union, but I do have some concerns about a number of old stickhorses, half analyses and the lack of adaptability that the text shows. Sometimes it's like the Netherlands is still looking at a new world with an old pair of glasses. A few examples. When it comes to the biggest health crisis since the Spanish flu, the state of the Union states above all that border management and public health are national competences, and that is factually correct. The fact that European coordination is, of course, good will only come after that. Typical is the phrase: "When the first shock went away, more European cooperation was sought." So that's not good enough. In the event of a global pandemic, in the event of a Europe-wide threat to public health, the standard reflex must be a European one. Fortunately, in the area of vaccines and corona certificates, we have been working on stronger standing together. However, it cannot be explained that each foreign ministry does its own thing with regard to prohibitions to move in from third countries. During a pandemic, we should draw a common line, even if it requires a different division of powers. That brings me to the stickhorses, such as "especially no treaty changes." Of course, I prefer to deal with what I can without the need for a treaty change, because that is much faster. But what's with the rigid attitude? The first plenary meeting of the conference on the future of Europe will take place next weekend. The Netherlands, it writes, considers it important to listen to people's wishes and expectations there, but woe betide, oh woe betide, if those people want something that requires a treaty change. The Netherlands, together with eleven other countries, already wrote a letter about this: that was not the intention. I'd say, go and listen before you give the answers. And then, finally, half the analysis. We are going to have a spicy year of debates on the establishment of economic and monetary union. We know that EMU is sub-optimal. We also know that the monetary leg is now super muscular because the economic side is underdeveloped. Much more important is the question: what do we do about it, and how? I'm all for maintaining tight, but only with the chorus "rules are rules" you can't get there. Wolfgang Schäuble did not stick in half an analysis and threw an interesting stone into the pond through the Financial Times: budgetary discipline and debt reduction through a European compulsory repayment method. I wonder how the government looks at that. If that's not the answer, then what is? Mr President, I will conclude. My Europe is more than the sum of its parts. Yes, it is built on 27 Member States, strong Member States, as the government writes over and over again, but it has to be more than that. How do we, as 27 Member States, increase our weight, our autonomy and, yes, our sovereignty in the world? That's what the discussion should be about. It takes more than this approach than this State of the Government's Union. Mr. Chairman. I've been whispering that our Prime Minister changes his frame about every two years. I think it is particularly high time for new lenses in the Dutch debate on Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u71	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u72	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the timing of this debate, because the European Championship is getting off to a good start and we are talking today about the State of the European Union. That alone is a reason to be critical of the federalisation of Europe, isn't it? Perhaps a nice question for Mr Dassen. It's his right to be there, but you wouldn't want to miss such a competition, would you? If you create a federal Europe with capital Brussels, you won't have it anymore. I'll wait for his answer. Mr. Chairman. A nice debate with a new Chamber and a new Minister, and with the MEPs. It's good to see where we stand. The SP uses a number of principles when it comes to Europe: cooperation over superstate, democracy over bureaucracy and sparingness over spillover. Mr. Chairman. The first. We are in favour of European cooperation. It also makes sense in areas such as climate, migration and security. That is different from giving all your control to Brussels, especially when the discipline of the market is so great. Member States must keep the room to decide for themselves. A co-operation forced from above also leads to resistance. Then the support plane flies right out the window. Mr. Chairman. Democratic control, the second point, is also a sensitive issue. I myself worked in the European Parliament for a while. With all due respect to all my colleagues here, the debate in Brussels is difficult. For example, you cannot interfere with a European Commissioner. You have all these languages, so if someone's joking, you have to wait for the translation. And the decision-making process is extremely shady. Every time I came back to the Netherlands, people asked: but, Jasper, how does that decision-making work in Europe? Then you arrived with the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe; quite complicated. How does the government itself feel about it? With a President of the European Commission and a President of the Council who does not seem to give each other the light, let alone a seat to sit on. Again, I say: beware of giving powers. Do you recognise that decision-making is viscous and opaque? How does the government intend to improve this and make it more transparent? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Leijten/Omtzigt motion? 1607 of 30 September last year, to make the draft conclusions of the Euro Summits public? How do you look at the enormous power of the lobby in Brussels? Take the gun lobby. He's pretty successful. A few years ago, it was about a few tens of millions. There is now a European Defence Fund and a European Peace Fund worth EUR 13 billion. How does the government view this militarisation of the European Union? Can't we spend the money much better on nicer things? I'll give you something: education. Take a look at our Permanent Representation in Brussels. The report of the Corporate Europe Observatory agency shows that almost three quarters of the conversations took place with the business community. Do you agree that this needs to be balanced? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The use of money in Europe is also often the subject of discussion. Look also at the EUR 750 billion recovery fund, where, as I saw in Nieuwsuur, the Italian mob prey. Also think of the monthly movement circus between Brussels and Strasbourg. You know it like no other. But new round, new opportunities: the conference on the future of Europe is about to begin, and I think that is a very good opportunity to raise the issue of this moving circus. The Chamber has also said so by a large majority. Who knows? That would be a fantastic achievement, wouldn't it? The ball's on the dot. Can the government guarantee that this recovery fund is a three-year temporary fund and that it will then be closed down? Can the government guarantee that the monitoring of the use of funds is really careful? Mr. Chairman. In terms of migration, more cooperation is extremely important, but it doesn't work. What is the government doing to make progress? I'd like a response to the disturbing reports about the Frontex border guard. The European Coast Guard is guilty of illegal pushbacks, we can read. This is contrary to everything the European Union stands for. Does the government share that? Frontex also cooperates with the Libyan Coast Guard. It sends migrants back to Libya, where it is dangerous. Those people are going straight to detention centres, which the new foreign minister said earlier that they should be closed down. Take your chance, Minister. Take care of it. Finally, I would like to express my disapproval of the harsh anti-gay law recently adopted in Hungary. Media must no longer display homosexual content. A school that tells its students about homosexuality can count on a fine. This really is crazy and goes directly against everything Europe stands for. Do you share that opinion? If so, when will sanctions be imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u73	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How good it is to see my former colleagues from the European Parliament again today, some of you I have missed very much today to debate with each other during the State of the Union about the commitment of the Netherlands in Europe. I will dwell on the role of Europe in the world, the state of the rule of law and the Dutch attitude in the debate on Europe. In the meantime, I'm asking the chairman if the cathedral can get anything down; excuse me. Yes, thank you. Let's take stock of this right away. At the very least, this Prime Minister's Europe policy needs to be maintained. The Netherlands was one of the founders of the European Union, one of the original six. But nowadays we are often on the sidelines, with the heels in the sand. The attitude towards the Corona Restoration Fund speaks volumes, I think. According to the Prime Minister, the Franco-German initiative was only one of many plans. It came anyway, including the gifts. Subsequently, the cabinet demanded in a high tone that spending should be accompanied by rigorous reforms. It is therefore really embarrassing that the Netherlands, the only one in the whole of the EU, has not presented a plan for the EUR 5.7 billion we need to get out of this crisis more honestly and sustainably. My question is therefore: how does the Prime Minister intend to make credible comments on the plans of the other countries in this way? Mr. Chairman. The buzzword of the last year in Brussels was "strategic autonomy" - a geopolitical union. "Europe as a player, not as a playing field," as the Prime Minister would say. But then something has to change. We need to get rid of the vetos, the Borisovs and the Orbáns. It can no longer be explained that the EU often does not go beyond a watered-down response to abuses in the world, if there is any reaction at all. That wasn't just fixed. What are the real possibilities for the Prime Minister to achieve this? Can we not just set up a group of 25 countries that decide on foreign policy by qualified majority if necessary? Mr. Chairman. If we want to become a true geopolitical union, we will have to make value-driven choices in addition to adapting the decision-making process. Cynic realpolitik does not fit in with this Europe. Take Turkey's example. Why does the cabinet intend to further strengthen the trade relationship with Ankara, while Turkish prisons are still full of journalists, activists and opposition members? That's really the wrong signal at the wrong time. The relationship with Belarus is also a test for Europe. It is good that next Monday the new sanction package will finally be adopted. Minister Kaag said yesterday in a debate that the cabal around dictator Lukashenko still traded 480 million euros of oil through our port in Rotterdam two years ago. That is money that we all know is being used for repression. Is the Netherlands prepared to make oil supply sanctions part of European sectoral sanctions? I also wonder how Nord Stream 2, according to this cabinet, fits into that geopolitical union. Always taking it off as a purely commercial project is really no longer sustainable. Mr. Chairman. There's no other way. The EU can also set a positive example. No matter in the world is currently exposing the gap between rich and poor as painfully as the distribution of vaccines in the world. That is why I would like to hear from this cabinet whether it is in favour or against suspending patents on vaccines. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps the greatest threat to the future of the European Union is the continuing erosion of the rule of law. Let me quote from this state of the Union the American President Biden: 'You must lead not by being the example of power, but by being the power of the example'. The same applies to the EU, where we see countries pushing refugees back at sea, something even the European Border Agency, Frontex, is cooperating in. When people arrive, they are caught in tents under inhuman conditions. How much longer are we gonna accept this? What action has the government taken towards the Frontex Director? Then there's the rule of law. This week there was another low in Hungary. My colleague from the SP already referred to it. I therefore hope that Prime Minister Rutte will also express his disgust at this. For years, the rule of law has gone downhill in countries such as Hungary and Poland. A number of other countries are moving in the same direction. The Article 7 procedure is stuck. Infringement proceedings don't impress. There is no momentum for the Commission to put in place the new rule of law mechanism for once. Mr President, I will conclude. As the EU itself will have to set an example to the outside world, the Netherlands will also have to do so within the EU. As one of the founding fathers of the EU, we have a duty and a duty to guide the EU in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u75	Thank you, Mrs Piri. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Jongerius, the European Parliament, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you organized the reunion with colleague Piri and I'm glad you're all here. But I didn't want to talk about that. I wanted to talk to you about Dreamgaard. This was once the name of the holiday park that I tried to visit last year in Waalwijk, where hundreds of European migrant workers are housed in a questionable way. That park doesn't look like much of a dream anymore, because honestly: who is waiting to be housed in that blue giant warehouse after a day of hard work, on a mattress that is too dirty to catch, in a packed mobile home for which you also pay the top price. I'm not waiting for it. You're not waiting for that. Nobody's looking for that. But unfortunately, Dreamgaard is not an incident. At the beginning of this month, a fire less than two kilometres from here exposed the abuses of migrant workers. The exploitation of migrant workers has continued for years. This is striking, even in Europe. Because although there are people who are proud of the adagium "de bv Nederland," the image of the same bv of the Netherlands has become a bit coloured. In Parliament, I am often addressed by European colleagues who ask me how it is possible to deal with their own countrymen in this way. They are people who have been worried about our dealings with people who take care of our stuffed shelves in the supermarkets, the flowers and plants in the garden centers and of course our exports. And I know: the recommendations of Emile Roemer's chasing team have been declared controversial here. But we can't close our eyes to these daily abuses, can we? Therefore, my question is: why don't you get to work today, for example with the Basic Registration Persons Act? Mr. Chairman. The finance ministers of the G7 countries concluded a historic agreement last week on global corporate taxation. At last, in the maze of tax avoidance, there is a global lower limit. US President Biden suggested the rate of 21%, which is exactly the same as the European average. Secretary of State Vijlbrief also indicated in the French financial daily this week that the lower limit of 15% can be raised as far as he is concerned. That is why my question is: does the Netherlands support this reform and does it want to go for the European average as a corporate tax rate? If not, what, according to the cabinet, is the lower limit? Speaking of corporate responsibility, last year we also mentioned it in this debate. At the time, it was said that we are still waiting for European proposals for mandatory, socially responsible legislation. We now know that the Commission is coming with it. We also know that the European Parliament has taken the lead through my colleague Wolters' proposal. My question is: have we changed our minds since last year? Finally, I'm finishing up. As far as I am concerned, the Netherlands is leaving a huge opportunity to become Europe's hydrogen roundabout. Where Spain, France and Germany are going to invest EUR 1.5 billion, 1.9 billion and 3.2 billion respectively, including with the money from the European Recovery Fund, the Netherlands is left behind, while green hydrogen is essential to greening our industry and envying foreign investment plans. May I therefore ask you not to waste any more precious time? May I therefore ask this outgoing cabinet: come up with a plan for the European Recovery Fund as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u77	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also thank you for your words in memory of Hans van Baalen. My group believes that this is very appropriate. It is a pity that this debate is now taking place on his birthday and he has not been able to experience it himself. In recent years, we have demonstrated the existential need of the European Union more than ever. When you look at the impact of the financial crisis, the climate crisis and the pandemic, you see the need to tackle these things together. The Netherlands cannot do that alone. Our dikes don't protect us from that. This requires international cooperation. The European Union is the most far-reaching project in international cooperation. The Netherlands is rightly a founding father. It is sometimes a pity to see that we have forgotten that, especially this cabinet. I find it encouraging that I hear from the VVD and the CDA in this debate a much more enthusiastic story about Europe than in recent years. That's gonna come at a good time, too. There are now also a number of interesting opportunities multilaterally, because Biden has entered and opened again. China has increased climate ambitions. We also see that there seems to be an international agreement to introduce a minimum rate of tax on profits. There are new opportunities and new rounds. This means that Europe must be a powerful player. At the same time, this is a huge challenge. The economist Dani Rodrik described a qualm a few years ago. This is about the importance of democracy, the importance of European integration and the importance of sovereignty. He said it's actually impossible to serve all three. You actually have to make a choice between two, because if you think it's important, it's at the expense of the third. You can see that here in the Chamber, but also in the Member States, we are making different choices in that dilemma. Some consider sovereignty to be crucial. Others think democracy is very important, but they want to work together internationally. You can't do that unless you lift some of your sovereignty. At the same time, you can see that democracy and the corresponding rule of law are also under pressure. There are also countries in the European Union that are becoming increasingly authoritarian. Much has been said about the rule of law mechanism. We too regret that little work is being done on this. When it comes to the European Restoration and Resilience Fund, we call on the Cabinet to set very specific conditions for countries. They need to reform. These reforms must be compatible with the strengthening of the rule of law and must not undermine them. In Hungary, for example, there are plans to steer the future of universities, which should become more regime-friendly. This aside from the recent example of enslaving homosexuality, because that is unacceptable and requires action by this government. Geopolitics also plays a lot. I read an interesting piece by Coby van der Linde this morning, an energy expert connected to Clingendael. I advise the Prime Minister to read that, too. She shows very convincingly that when it comes to tackling climate change, it is not just a discussion about morality, about securing the future of our children and grandchildren, but it is increasingly a geopolitical issue and of our future earning ability. Two trillion dollars has put Biden on the table to send in a geopolitical sense. It is then a question of who has the sustainable technology of the future. China is very strong there at the moment. And who has access to the new minerals and raw materials needed for the transitions? I liked to see the Prime Minister have a good conversation with Marjan Minnesma. The importance of a green industrial policy at Dutch and European level is crucial for our future, for tackling climate change and for good geopolitical relations. I am going to give the Prime Minister a bundle of green industrial policy through the messenger, and I hope he will learn from that. Many choices must now be made in the formation. It is important that we see that the majority of this Chamber seems to be a little more positive than some additional steps towards European integration. This requires an active Dutch policy in which more choices are made. This has happened too little and must be done in the coming formation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u79	Thank you. Then I'll ask the messenger to hand over the book to the Prime Minister. I shall then give the floor to Mr Eickhout, the European Parliament, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the State of the Union here. In fact, I very much agreed with my colleague Esther de Lange, who was also reasonably critical of the cabinet. I must say that the piece read very much as a dutiful piece, a must. All topics are passed neatly: climate, digital, EU in the world, European way of life, democracy. At the end of the debate there was also a point about the future of Europe. But it was. Nothing shows some kind of passion. What does this cabinet want to change Europe on? What do we, the Netherlands, want to do about how Europe should change? Of course, it is not entirely coincidental that the priorities that are being passed on are precisely the priorities of the European Commission. This also shows how important it is for a President of the European Commission to be democratically elected. It is important that the European elections should be the commitment of the European President of the Commission and that we should not, as has now happened with Ursula von der Leyen, arrange this again behind closed doors. I hope we will learn from this. I hope we can see how important it is to make an effort: who will be the President of the European Commission? Let us link the European elections to that, also because we see that this President has been co-elected by the Orbán Party, which has been mentioned many times and by Kaczyński; not by him, but by his party. This also shows that it is vulnerable if we are dealing with the President of the European Commission behind closed doors. This also shows that a European Commission is incredibly passive to tackle the rule of law. A great deal has been said about it, but I would like to appeal to the cabinet here. I know it is not my role, but I can, of course, ask the Prime Minister to show the same intensity in Brussels as during the euro crisis, when it was about Greece. This was seen as a threat to the euro area. If there is a major threat from the European Union, it is the undermining of the rule of law by countries such as Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia. Then there were some subjects. The Green Deal, the man-on-the-moon project of Europe. The European Commission has put in place many strategies. Now we have to do the legislation. Please let us hope that this will not be yet another compromise project in Europe. If we do that the same way... Imagine if JFK had done his man on the moon project in the 1960s with the same compromise attitude as the European Commission, then I think we were still crafting model rockets in Houston today. This means that we need countries to be involved: where else should we do this; where should we use it? This requires a clear direction from the government. This calls for a European recovery fund. This does not require a cabinet that is on the brakes of a Recovery Fund and only talks about not costing too much, but it calls for a cabinet that is using a Recovery Fund where it wants improvements, for example on green or innovation. Where can we be leading in the world? That is why such a recovery fund is still very much needed. It is now being pretended that the economy is recovering. Yes, the growth rates are recovering, but there is still a huge investment gap in Europe. It is necessary to invest now. Where are we going? We will have to do this together. That is also the strength of such a European Investment Fund. I hope the cabinet will see that when we talk about making the Recovery Fund more permanent. Finally, I would also like to talk about industrial policy. I see that Mr Rutte is already reading the book carefully, so I can be brief. Industrial policy requires a government that gives clarity, has a long-term vision, which is predictable and which is committed to investment. Industrial policy therefore calls for a government with vision. And that has been a dirty word for too long for this cabinet and perhaps especially for the Prime Minister. That is why I hope that next year, when we see another state of the Union, we will see a note full of passion, full of vision on how to make this Europe fairer, more social and greener and with an idea of how to protect the rule of law. That is why I am looking forward to next year and the new debate on the state of the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u81	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u82	Mr. Chairman. "We live in a tilt time. It could fall one way or the other. We're stuck in an economic model that can't go well for much longer. Either it ends in a catastrophe with new pandemics, wars, no access to resources and you name it, or we go another way. But tilting works. That's for sure." Distinctive words from historian Philip Blom about the decisive time in which we live. The climate crisis and the dramatic loss of animal and plant species: the ecological boundaries have been largely exceeded. It is important now: can we limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius? Can we keep the Earth viable for humans and animals? The fact that we are in danger of tilting the wrong direction is still due to the dominant thought that we can grow on a finite planet infinitely. The idea that the world is a earning model is still sinking into European policy. Despite repression, exploitation, scaling up and the disappearance of family farmers, the EU is still full of new trade agreements, as much as possible and as soon as possible. Free trade agreements that undermine our environmental and animal welfare standards and kill SMEs and sustainable agriculture! Mr. Chairman. One third of the EU budget goes to agriculture. There is a great opportunity here to use this budget for the necessary transition to agro-ecological and animal-friendly agriculture. Because of the reform of agricultural policy, there is an enormous opportunity, but for the time being the provisional plans are disappointing. If we do not fully align agricultural policy with the Paris Agreement, we will wake up on 1 January 2028 with major climate damage caused by subsidised intensive livestock farming, loss of biodiversity and nitrogen problems in several EU countries. Very unwise! My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: what is credible about an agricultural policy that is not in line with the Paris Agreement? Mr. Chairman. While the EU promises to protect forests and biodiversity, it is about to subsidise woody biomass for the next 15 to 30 years and to label it as renewable energy. The latest driver of deforestation! Can the Prime Minister comment on this coal and goat policy? Does he agree with the Animal Party that all European policies should be brought fully into line with the Paris Agreement? These examples of policy indicate that the difficulty is not so much the development of new ideas, because they lie there. The hard part is to escape the old one, as Keynes pointed out. Escape from the old reflexes means that there is no room for bio-industry, for free trade agreements and for false solutions such as woody biomass. So stop this conflicting policy that is damaging to the climate and nature. Mr. Chairman. The plans that are coming this month and the coming months, the Green Deal and the review of trade policy, determine which way we are going to roll. Do we choose business as usual with a climate catastrophe, lead to even more biodiversity loss and new pandemics or do we choose to break with the old reflexes? We can make a difference so we tilt in the right direction. There's nothing else we can afford. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u83	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen. It is his maiden speech and to do it is not usually interrupted. There is also a little more room for a personal note if chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u84	Thank you. Over the years, the European Union has attracted ever more power and more powers. We know all about it here. For a large part, as a Lower House, we are now only a pass-through door for orders that come to us from Brussels. We have destroyed our innovative and environmentally friendly pulse fishing, not in Dutch interest, but because the EU ordered us to do so. We set income limits for social housing tenants on the basis of European regulations, not on the basis of what we ourselves think is most sensible. We mutilate our beautiful voluntary firefighters because Brussels regulations instruct us to do so, not because we want to do so ourselves. How could it have come to this? Six years ago, the EU-Citizen Committee in its Manifest wrote the following to the people of the Netherlands. I quote. "On 1 June 2005, in a consultative referendum, the Dutch people rejected the proposed Constitution of the European Union by almost two-thirds majority. The political dream of the United States of Europe, supported by the traditional parties of our country, suffered a severe defeat. However, on 13 December 2007, the Treaty of Lisbon was signed, almost entirely in line with the Constitution rejected by referendum in France and the Netherlands. On 1 December 2009, this Treaty entered into force, creating a logic which has greatly promoted decision-making at Union level." Encouraged by the measures taken to restore the finances of Member States such as Portugal, Spain, Italy and Greece and to save banks and the euro, the Union's power has increased further. Although the power of the EU is much greater than that provided for in the Constitution, the people of the Netherlands have not been asked for judgment since then. The Dutch people are therefore still waiting for a second referendum, a referendum that we are denied. In the meantime, developments themselves have shown that the Union has undermined two fundamental principles of our country: national sovereignty and national democracy. In fact, without knowing the Dutch people, our politicians have largely transferred Dutch sovereignty to the Union. The European Union is now in an unprecedented democratic and legitimacy crisis. The European Union is undoubtedly illegal. The only legitimate sovereign of this country, the Dutch people, has never, I repeat, never explicitly renounced its sovereignty. In fact, the Dutch people have spoken directly and indirectly against this new sovereign in the making, the European Union. For example, five years ago, when the Association Treaty that the EU had concluded with Ukraine was rejected by a large majority in a referendum. Next, this Parliament did not reject that treaty, as it was directly instructed by the Dutch people, our sovereign, but abolished the referendum. An unprecedented disgrace. This Parliament is obliged to respect our Constitution, but if it does not provide for anything, it is obliged to respect its sovereign. Since the Constitution does not provide for a lawful surrender of our country to another Saat, as is the case with the integration of our country into the European Union, the sovereign must be consulted, the Dutch people must be consulted. Now that this choice has not been submitted to the public, an inheritance sin has been woven into the constitution of the European Union, which will make the looming error of the euro nothing. It's not too late. This parliament can still take its responsibility and issue a referendum to ask the Dutch people to judge our future in Europe and the world. Does the Dutch people want to remain a member of the European Union and thus inevitably abandon their sovereignty and become part of a new European demo to be established, or does it not want to? We are in a great global ideological battle between globalists, working towards a world government without borders, and patriots, emphasising the importance of limited sovereign and democratic communities. But it is not only between countries that the borders are increasingly blurring. In inland countries too, we see scaling up and thus the disappearance of borders and of all kinds of institutions such as schools, hospitals and municipalities. The Netherlands is absolutely at the forefront of this. Almost nowhere in the world have public institutions been scaled up as quickly over the past decades as in our country. This scaling-up and the downright dramatic consequences such as the loss of democratic legitimacy, inefficiency, corruption and bureaucracy are taking over the power of those scaled-up institutions and loss of freedom in general are described extensively in the essay microphobia, published today at the Renaissance Institute. It will be clear: our movement is on the side of the patriots and those who understand and appreciate the importance of borders and human measure. We are convinced that a European political union, let alone a world government, will have to be inhumane, if only because this is inevitably accompanied by an enormous control and dehumanisation in all areas of life. There's no room for freedom and generosity anyway. Everything must be equal, uniform and rational. For example, the technocrats who are at best at the helm always want it. This globalism, this cult of the colossal, is nothing less than an attack on man and humanity. And that attack, because man is a freedom-loving being, will inevitably fail. But in the meantime, the damage done is immeasurable. We want to stop this! That is the purpose of our movement. For what is the strength of Europe? Her rational and therefore central control? Europe as a power block? Nonsense. It is precisely the decentralized and fragmented nature that has given Europe its strength over the centuries. This stimulated innovation and competition. This made Europe a world power, also cultural. However, the strength, the essence of what literally makes our continent so beautiful, its diversity, is destroyed and ground up by that disgusting, anti-democratic European Union. The EU has kidnapped Europe, but in this bull there is no god hidden, but only an idea. It is a modern idea, namely the idea-fix of a scale increase where all boundaries must be removed and everything must become one. Europe as one big power block. Europe as the new China, where everything is managed rationally and centrally from Brussels. It's a crazy dream, which at best ends in a lifeless, all-uniform technocracy in which arthropods disguised as an expert are the boss. And at worst, that dream ends in a totalitarian, inhumane dictatorship. That is why we, the FVD, will continue to fight against the European Union and for a new treaty here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u85	Thank you. Congratulations on your maiden speech and good luck in this House of Representatives. I call Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u86	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the State of the European Union in the presence of our colleagues, MEPs. That's beautiful. I would therefore like to welcome colleagues from Brussels. Unfortunately, my Volt colleague Damian Boeselager is not allowed to participate today, because... he is not a Dutchman. As far as my group is concerned, it is therefore time for us to adapt the Rule of Procedure in such a way that other European representatives will be welcome here in future during the debate, especially when that debate is about the Union. It is 2021 and it is high time some rules from ancient times were deleted. Mr. Chairman. Why is it important that we replace the political trend for navel staring with a European look? Simple: we need each other badly in a world that is changing fast. But it is also important because we hear a number of crises and challenges knocking on the door. Whether it is about climate change, economic recovery, migration, growing social inequality or digitalisation, it is always true that only cross-border issues can be resolved. Because while China sprints us past in the race to the fourth industrial revolution, Facebook, Amazon and Google are enjoying our tax climate in the European hammock. Why can't we get these tech giants to pay a fair contribution? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that we should have better European regulation? Putin is now satisfied in a hammock further away, toasting to his successful efforts to break up EU Member States. Mr. Chairman. A decisive Europe is not only luxurious, it is also necessary. That Europe requires more than the abolition of the right of veto in the area of common foreign policy. It also calls for a robust and fairer organisation of the euro. It calls for a much stronger commitment to the democratic rule of law. Countries such as Poland and Hungary, as well as Greece and Denmark, are becoming less and less committed to the rule of law. Does the Prime Minister agree with us? Whether it is about hunting down judges, pushing people and children into the sea in boats, or about adopting legislation against lhbti+s: what can the Netherlands do to stop these Member States from slipping? And what specific resources do we lack in the instruments? Can the Netherlands take action for this? I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. Volt would like us to have a debate in this House on the state of the Union with all ministers in future, so that we can discuss how to improve cooperation with each department. As far as Volt is concerned, we therefore invite the Commissioner. I ask the Prime Minister: do you agree that this would promote the discussion? My group will come up with a proposal. I would also like to express my hope that we will talk more often with MEPs in the run-up to European summits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u87	Why don't you finish your story?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u88	Okay. Mr. Chairman. Irrational sentiments like nostalgia and nationalism stand between us and a forceful and just continent. I am not saying that I think that the Union as it is today is fantastic, but that it can be fantastic. Because the more Europeans are involved in the future of our continent, the more democratic we organise the process, the stronger we get. If we dare, there is no limit to what we can achieve with each other. Then we build with the money from the corona restoration fund on the first climate-neutral continent, with a euro that works for everyone and where we lead digitalisation. A continent where everyone can develop and enjoy freedom. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The time has come to build a mature Europe on the understanding that Europe is not primarily made up of countries and parties, but first of all of Europeans. Those Europeans deserve a greater voice in the European Parliament. Let the European voters vote for the candidates who best represent their ideals, even if they happen to be German or Italian. Let the European Parliament be a co-legislator. It is really high time we worked towards a European parliamentary democracy. Again, if we dare, there is no limit to what we can achieve with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u89	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u90	That's quite a pro-European story from Volt. That's fine, as expected. I always think that D66 can suck on that when I hear Mr Dassen. What's my surprise? I found a message from May in which your colleague, also from Volt, said: 'We have never really been in favour of the introduction of the euro. It was not sensible, perhaps as a final piece, at most, of economic integration, but not at the beginning. It's actually way too complex, with all those different countries." Is that indeed your point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u91	What is meant by this, and I have just mentioned this in my contribution, is that we must finish the euro. The euro has been introduced. Part of it was also a political project. We see that the euro is not working properly, that economies are not compatible. That is what we want to improve, and that is what this reaction actually means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u92	But aboundingly: does Mr Dassen agree with me that Volt therefore believes that the introduction of the euro at the time was a wrong step, that it was unthought-out, that it was the wrong order and that you are now seeing the problems you are right to outline? They are the result of an ill-thought-out introduction of the euro? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u93	No, we think that we should make sure that we finish the euro so that it works for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u94	I would like to ask Mr Dassen a few questions about his position on nuclear energy. We have recently had a motion here, a motion by Mr Erkens, which has reached a majority and which actually says that nuclear energy is sustainable. But your party voted against it, if I am well informed. I thought you had in your party program that you were in favour of nuclear power. However, Volt Europe is opposed to nuclear energy. Where the hell are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u95	We do not believe that any option to counter the climate crisis should not be on the table. The same applies to nuclear energy. We are therefore in principle in favour of this. Why did we vote against the motion? The appreciation of the cabinet was that there should be two more investigations to be carried out. We would like to await these two investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21 for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u97	Mr. Chairman. We are here today with fellow representatives of the people. Last year I was here too, but as a Member of the European Parliament. So I know both houses from both sides. The debate on the future of Europe is urgently needed. We are at a crossroads, as Mr Sjoerdsma said earlier. One direction is a federal Europe, where the EU becomes a sovereign entity, the so-called United States of Europe. D66 is for that, well, I respect that, that's a point of view and wants to go further in that direction. We really want to move in a different direction, where the Member States are at the centre. Power remains with the Member States, which form a kind of community of European states and which focus on cross-border problems and economic cooperation. So it's much more of a projet économique than a projet politicique. The institutions in Brussels are at the service of the Member States and not the other way round. There is a limit to everything, including European integration. That border seems to me almost reached. Forced integration from above leads to disputes within countries and between countries. You're seeing rejection symptoms now, too. Look at the Brexit. The British have left the EU. It would be a total disaster for the British, but it's actually not that bad. As far as vaccines are concerned, I think the British were happy to be out of the EU in good time. See also Switzerland, which, despite strong pressure from the EU, is not being pushed into a straitjacket. That is courageous of the Swiss because they are in the middle of Europe, surrounded by EU countries. See Denmark, which goes its own way in the area of immigration. And with a socialist government, Mrs Piri. I'd like to have a socialist government like that here. The EU's support is under pressure from the public, especially in France. Only 15% of the French are satisfied with the current EU, 39% are in favour of the EU, but want to change it, and 35% call themselves "eurosceptics." Those are pretty hard numbers. They come from the Eurobarometer. I would not dare to deny to the compilers that there are some underestimations in this regard. In France there will be presidential elections next year. Immigration is theme number one. French generals and the Prime Minister warn of civil war. Hopefully that won't happen here. That sounds very disturbing. I hope that doesn't happen, of course. An election victory by President Macron is not certain. We do not realise enough how much it is brewing in France, the country of romance and revolution, at the moment. So I'm a little more conservative than most of you. I prefer to consolidate at a limited level. I would say a European Community 2.0, but a little dressed. But the European Union wants to move forward more and more. It wants more power and more money in almost all areas. In the area of immigration, we see a sharp increase in the number of refugees in Europe. That number is rising every day. We're dealing with a migration crisis. That's why that theme is number one among most citizens. Not to mention all the costs of immigration for the Member States. In the Netherlands, for example, immigration cost around 400 billion euros between 1995 and 2019. This was mainly through the redistribution mechanisms of the welfare state. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Now it will be said: that conservative there, he stands alone; he yells nothing. Everyone's watching their iPhone, too. Oh, you're listening, aren't you, Prime Minister? I thought you weren't listening. You say you're listening with your ears. But I don't think I'm standing here alone. When I look around, I am not only looking at the Netherlands; we are looking very much at the Netherlands; we are looking at the whole of Europe, because I am a convinced European. I can see that sovereignty is still a living concept in Central and Eastern Europe. I can see that in the Scandinavian countries too. Citizens from these countries distrust European federalism. They fear that they will lose their country and cherish their own culture and identity. The same goes for the French, for la Flandre... sorry, la France profonde. It's the same in La Flandre profond, by the way. They see the Union more as a loose, flexible partnership than a European state in the making. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u98	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Roos. He is a member of the European Parliament on behalf of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I sincerely hope that I am one of the people who misses Mrs Piri in Brussels. With the invitation to this debate, a cabinet note was sent in which our government looks at the functioning of the European Union and the policy initiatives of the European Commission. This came across to me as a rosy prospectus of Palm Invest too good to be true. What happened to the sober and critical view of business? The document is a smooth praise for EU policies and one big statement of support for the path taken to a green recovery from the COOVID-19 pandemic. This happens with a European climate law, which sets binding targets for us as the Netherlands. How to achieve these objectives will then be further developed in huge legislative packages. The citizen will have to swallow it. The European climate law shows that the institutions in Brussels have found a new way to take away the competences of the Member States. Indeed, the EU climate law is going to apply for 30 years without you, our national parliament, or the electorate being able to change anything about it in the meantime. Mr. Chairman. The national elections will be about the beard of the emperor if the representatives of the people do not get on their feet quickly. The EU climate law is the coat rack of the European Green Deal. That Green Deal demands a complete transformation of our economy and our society. What election programme has that been in? Has this been the wish of our citizens? Where's the hard, numerical responsibility? As an entrepreneur, I've made a lot of business cases, but I've never been allowed to receive the Green Deal. "Don't run any unnecessary risk. Read the financial package leaflet," it says on every financial prospectus. But that package leaflet is not there. The Brussels sustainability incentive leads us to a risky and dangerous experiment where there is a great chance that the so-called investments will never be recouped. The damage to our environment and our nature may be irreversible. But instead of protecting us from this, our government is doing the opposite: it is doing a little bit more. The cabinet even has the guts to congratulate itself on its own successful lobby to raise climate targets, to deprive citizens and national parliament of permanent control and to be proud of that too. It is a low point in the history of the People's Assembly. In the meantime, farmers and fishermen are at risk of becoming the first great losers. For generations they have been the stewards of our nature, but through a powerful NGO lobby, which is eager to write along with the new rules, they are being turned around. The multinationals are going through the forced green revolution. Our North Sea is declared by our cabinet, under the loud applause of the European Commission, to be the building site of the great energy giants, who, like flies on the syrup, come to the bottomless subsidy jars. A silent ecological disaster is imminent, because a thorough study of the effects on nature has not been done. Our sovereignty, our last word, seems to slip out of our hands. It is no longer the Dutch people who are setting the lines. We have only limited choice of how to implement certain European commitments, international sustainability targets, socio-economic commitments and migration pacts. It also seriously restricts us by all kinds of judicial interpretations of fundamental rights and human rights. After a visit to Brussels, our Prime Minister wants you to believe that the Dutch lion has roared, but in reality his role in the theatre of European administrative culture is nothing more than that of a gentle, castrated hangover. Where did it go wrong? Where is the EU as an economic partnership of free nation states that stands out for its pragmatic nature without ideological forces that impose a planned economy and a progressive monoculture on Europe? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. The only thing that needs a reset at the moment is the EU. Back to the base and say no for the sake of Dutch society. We are in favour of European cooperation, but what we are seeing now is a violation of everything that has to do with democracy. I'm curious to see how the cabinet views this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u100	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u101	Mr President, thank you very much. The ever-current podcast Reliable Sources recently punctuated an interesting and important topic. A quote from this: "While the Netherlands waits for a cabinet in formation time, Europe and the world do not wait for the Netherlands." That's how the presenters hit the nail on the head! As a result, I would like to mention four topical points. First of all, I would like to mention the renewed transatlantic cooperation. I'm gonna limit myself to one question. How does the government indicate the agreement on this at the G7 Summit? And what is the government's view of the idea of a Western variant on the Silk Road, as a counterpart to China? My second question concerns a substantive reflection on Schäuble's call in the Financial Times for a common European policy to deal with the major debts arising from the corona crisis. That mountain of debt would not have been so high without the huge covid recovery fund. I can't stress enough how fire-threatening...... this is. It should actually have an orange warning sticker on it: light flammable. But because of the complexity and sensitivity of this, everyone looks at each other. A few questions about this. Does the Prime Minister see the danger of the huge debt mountain with which the Corona Restoration Fund saddles the Netherlands and the euro area? Fortunately, the official support is listening. Does the Prime Minister find it healthy that a country like Greece, with a government debt of more than 200%,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u102	I would like to ask the directors, because it is a little distracting from Mr Bishop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u103	I forgive you very much, that's the way I am, but it's not pleasant. Does the Prime Minister think it is healthy that a country such as Greece, with a public debt of more than 200%, can borrow at no or little interest? That can't go well, can it, just soberly using your peasant understanding? Thirdly, what is the Dutch proposal to solve this problem? Schäuble refers to the Hamilton moment, which in 1792 gave a boost to the federalization of the United States. Some people think that's a wonderful example. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that, unlike the US, the EU is not a federal union, but a link between sovereign Member States, so that joint debt paper cannot be an option? Does the Prime Minister agree with the SGP that the EU's proposals, such as the recovery instrument, are going that way? It should not be called debt-sharing, but let us be honest: it is of course. The third issue is the Own Resources Decision. Again, the Commission has announced proposals for new own resources, such as a digital levy and a carbon tax at the border. I ask the Cabinet not to go along with this, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and the primacy of the Member States. My fourth point is that, in the light of increasing migratory pressure, is the long-promised migration deals with African countries finally being implemented so that the dangerous crossing of refugees is prevented? Or are we going to continue to roam and float around at EU level with this failing migration policy? Finally, Mr President. The cabinet wants an EU that works for the people. However, I see that all too often European institutions see only one way: more EU; interference in areas where the EU is not competent, or only partly competent, such as family and care and social security. I once again call on the cabinet to build a modest and flexible EU, with room for variation and the Member States at the helm. That's when you really work for people. I would say: stick to the EU's own motto, and all Members of the European Parliament know that, of course, unity in diversity. Take a look at this beautiful Dutch tricolor and you know exactly what I mean. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ruissen, European Parliament, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u105	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much for the invitation. I think it is an honour and a pleasure to take part in this debate today. I can be brief about the cabinet document on the state of the Union. It begins with an enthusiastic "chapeau" and then reads away as one great praise for European integration. Well, that's one way of looking at Europe. I hope, Mr President, that you will allow me to crack some critical notes this afternoon. A thorough rethink of the European Union is essential, both in terms of its core values and its core tasks and in terms of the quality of its decisions. First of all, the core values. There is much talk about the rule of law, the freedom of the press and the rights of minorities, but in the meantime I hear very little about another threat that does appear on the horizon, and that is the threat that the separation of church and state in Europe will be exchanged for the domination of the church by the state. A Finnish Christian politician is being prosecuted for quoting a Bible verse. French believers feel put in the corner because of increased government control over religious groups. As far as I am concerned, this is not a matter for Article 7 procedures, but perhaps it is something to discuss in the Council. It's important enough. Let's keep each other sharp. The freedom to profess your faith is one of the core values on which the European Union is founded. The second point is the core tasks. As far as the key tasks are concerned, I would like to point out that we really need to be more critical of the ever-increasing transfer of powers, because it goes on and on: a doubling of the budget, the creation of a health union and a European social pillar, mega-debts and new European taxes. Rethinking the EU's core tasks is therefore not an unnecessary luxury. This also applies to the future of the euro, which is driving us more and more towards a political union. The quality of the decisions is not always to write about home. That's what I'm saying from a lot of experience. Take the Farm to Fork strategy and the biodiversity strategy: communications from the Commission; so no legislation. Impact assessments What are the effects on agriculture and fisheries? They haven't been done yet or they're not even made public. But then I can see that the targets set out in these communications are widely taken as a starting point, as if they were binding legislation for everyone. I find that irresponsible. You can't make a policy like that. I am counting on the Netherlands not to play this game. Without an impact assessment at the front, no legislation: that needs to be clear. Why can't we include nuclear energy in the green taxonomy? I really hope that the Netherlands will make itself strong for this. Why does the Council want to be able to use the funds from the Brexit Adjustment Reserve, above all, to co-finance public expenditure? I really hope that the Netherlands will use these funds from the Brexit Adjustment Reserve mainly to compensate the affected entrepreneurs, for example fishermen, and that the money will not stop in covering additional costs for customs, for example. In short, Mr President, I would like to express myself diplomatically, and I would like to see some room for improvement, both in terms of the substantive choices that are being made, but certainly in terms of the functioning of the European Union. Let us ensure that'subsidiarity' and 'proportionality' do not remain empty concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u106	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u107	Mr. Chairman. The pandemic has turned the world upside down and has made it clear once again that greater impact is very important for the European Union. The EU plays an essential role in many of the issues that the Netherlands is struggling with. Think of climate. Think of technology. Think of our economy. Think about migration. Think of foreign policy. Dutch policy often goes hand in hand with European interest. That is why a stronger Europe is of great importance. Unfortunately, this is not achieved by the document we received from the government on the state of the Union. It's a lot of woolly language and it's abstract plans. I also agree with what Mr Eickhout has said about this. Mr. Chairman. We live in a time when the superpowers China and America fight their proxy wars left and right to increase their sphere of influence. We are living in a time when Russia uncomfortablely annexes Crimea, has actually occupied Eastern Ukraine and has a growing hand in frozen conflicts in Europe. We live in a time when cyber wars are fought through information and communication technology and where our citizens are watched through TikTok and Facebook. That is why it is high time that the EU better protected itself. The biggest threat to the European Union is not from outside. We're being destabilized from the inside out. The principle of unanimity with regard to foreign policy is really an Achilles heel as far as DENK is concerned. Left and right decisions on foreign policy are blocked. It is made impossible for us to stand united in defence of important values, security and human rights. Mr. Chairman. Another threat that is greatly underestimated is the rise of a whole new generation of right-wing extremists and right-wing populists in Europe. European countries note that neo-Nazis participate in paramilitary training in countries in Eastern Europe. In Berlin, parliament is stormed. In France, they march through the streets. In Belgium they can no longer be thought away from parliament. In the Netherlands we have the PVV, Forum for Democracy and a number of fragments of it. That's dangerous and frustrating. I ask the Minister what she is going to do at EU level to stop the right-wing extremist and right-wing populist threat. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The geopolitical capacity for action is going down. Does the Minister also agree with the DENK Group that the right of veto, i.e. the principle of unanimity, is an obstacle to the European Union's foreign policy? How does the Minister intend to ensure at European level that the EU's instruments are adapted in order to take better account of acute and distressing situations? Mr. Chairman. Biden's visit to Europe, the agreements with the G7 summit and his attempts to wake NATO up to the threat of a growing China are nothing more than trying to get the EU off the ground. Unfortunately, the silent war between America and China is no longer so quiet. Europe is going to be the biggest loser if we are not careful, because it is hitting the European economy hard. The Netherlands is also hard hit if the trade war escalates further. According to De Nederlandsche Bank, imports fall by around 7%, investments fall by 3% and also affect declining gross domestic product. It's not Biden who takes the hits, it's the people we all represent here. Their jobs are at stake. I ask the Minister what means the cabinet is going to use to reduce the risks of the trade war between the United States and China in a European context. At the same time, how do we guard our autonomy, even though the Cabinet sees America as the most important strategic partner? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, concluding. The multilateral order is of great importance to the EU. That order is under constant pressure. A stronger EU in the world is needed to counter undermining and clouding of the rule of law and destabilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u108	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear citizens of the Netherlands, in the EU we are talking about everything, even about how hard my vacuum cleaner can suck: no more than 900 watts, because climate, because Greta Thunberg, because destroyed planet. The biggest task we have over the coming decades, namely ensuring food security in the world, is hardly being heard by the EU, and Greta Thunberg certainly is not. While the EU and our own government in climate hype are now busy plundering our fertile farmland with megazon parks and windmills, while they are filling our North Sea and our IJsselmeer with nature-distorting mega-wind farms, while they are decimating our fishing activities and cutting our forests bare for polluting biomass plants, while if we don't look out they are also joining our dining table and piercing our living rooms to tell us what we can and can't eat, in the Netherlands our food makers, our best farmers, growers and fishermen, are being chased out of the country, chased away, bought out, and expropriated. Mr President, let me give you some facts. In 1950, the world had 2.5 billion people. Per person there was then half a hectare of agricultural land available. In 2050 the world has 9 billion people. Only 0.17 hectares of agricultural land are available per person. With rising prosperity and a growing world population, agricultural productivity has to rise by 60% until 2050 in order to feed all the world's mouths. This means more efficient use of land and raw materials. Each year, the number of people who depend on one farmer or gardener for their food doubles. The world's food supply is good for 11 weeks. Eleven weeks! There is only one plant disease or insect plague to come and the world food supply is falling, while almost 1 billion people are already starving and malnourished. Exchangeing food production means more land use, more animals, more resource use and more raw materials elsewhere in the world. What good is that going to do for our global climate? In the Netherlands food is made with such a small ecological footprint that the whole world comes here to see how we are able to make so much good, safe, sustainable, affordable and always available food on such a small stamp. The fact that the EU apparatus, which is now growing to a wretched proportions, emits tens of thousands of kilos of CO each month by moving from Brussels to Strasbourg and vice versa, makes our sustainable and efficient food makers in the European climate debate a problem rather than a solution. We need Frans Timmermans in the 1,000 billion-dollar Green Deal to convert a quarter of our farmland for organic production. This while organic food production for the same harvest costs much more land use and much more raw materials than high-productive agriculture and much less yield in terms of harvest and CO and therefore has more emissions than intensively grown products. Then there is Mr Timmermans' disastrous farmer-to-board strategy. Farmers' incomes are falling by 8%, agricultural production is falling by 10% and citizens are going to pay 10% more for their food. We're completely off the path here. Is our cabinet prepared to take place only in the climate hysteria? No, I'm not saying stop planning the climate. I say stop the climate hysteria. Is the Cabinet prepared to instruct the European Commission to rule with common sense and to instruct the European Commission not to continue to drive away our farmers and gardeners, but to use them to help feed the world? Finally. I assume that the Prime Minister and the Minister also know that food scarcity leads to unrest, civil wars and, consequently, immigration flows. So we should not drive away our farmers and gardeners, but we should use them for efficient and high-quality food production to preserve them for the future, so that they can use their knowledge to teach other countries how to make good, safe, sustainable, affordable and always available food, just like we do on this stamp called the Netherlands. Thank you. Sorry about the overrun.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u110	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, welcome to all Members present in the European Parliament. I would especially like to thank Mrs In 't Veld for her strong contribution. I really enjoyed it. Radical equality and economic justice: these are the criteria by which BET1 assesses every law and every policy. These values affect all the subjects mentioned in the State of the European Union, namely climate, economics, democratisation, and they even touch what is called the European way of life. Since my colleague from the Animal Party has already made an excellent statement on the climate, I am focusing today on those other standards. Equivalence is the prerequisite for a functioning democracy, but is under pressure in many Member States. Look at our own country, which is addressed about every year by European committees and UN committees on the human rights situation here. But the cabinet does not seem to see the urgency and only comes up with a bunch of hollow phrases in the context of "preservation of European core values." The EU should strengthen its enforcement of human rights violations in the Member States and develop a comprehensive and far-reaching approach to the advance of right-wing extremism. What are the Ministers' ideas on this? Equality and justice also affect the way Europe treats refugees. The inhumane European migration and asylum policy involves the horrors of the pushbacks, abuses resulting in thousands of deaths, inhumane refugee camps and absurd measures such as sound guns to ward off refugees. BIJ1 wants the Netherlands to advocate a humane policy with safe escape routes and unconditional protection for anyone fleeing war, poverty or climate change, or for whatever reason, especially since the Netherlands is often part of the actors that drive people to do so. Then I read the headline: an economy that works for everyone. It sounds like music to me, but I believe that such an economy runs counter to the European Union's free market principles. After all, the capitalist economy is not meant to work for everyone. It concentrates ownership, profits and prosperity at the top and is at the root of a world in which the main shareholders benefit from the profits generated by working people. This is what we see during the pandemic. The rich got richer and the rest could forget. Even now, the cabinet lacks the ambition to devote even one sentence in this whole piece to the importance of higher wages in all Member States, the importance of strengthening the position of trade unions and of raising the minimum wage. BEYOND1, the European Union sees it as an alliance that can become a Union of shared values. A Union in which Member States work together for human rights, radical equality, climate justice and economic justice across Europe. That is a Union that does not serve as an extension of the CEOs and multinationals of this world, but a Union that works for people and the interests of all of us. So I ask the directors: where are the proposals to curb profit on the pandemic, to tackle tax avoidance, to ban patents and to stop the exploitation of workers? This should be part of the Dutch commitment for the coming year: a radically equal and economically just European Union. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u112	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I'm suspending the meeting 45 minutes before dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u113	I am happy to give the floor to the outgoing Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u114	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you for your lovely words about Hans van Balen, which of course we also miss in Renew, in ALDE and in the VVD. It is remarkable that we are discussing this today on what would have been his birthday. I also got a message from his wife about your lovely words, and she appreciated that incredibly. In the division of roles I feel a little guilty, because I don't do a lot of things now. I am particularly addressing a few economic issues, including the recovery plan and a few loose questions about the internal market, the Spanish non-paper on the threat of trade war, in Mr Kuzu's words, and patents. Mrs Kaag will take care of all the other questions. When we were just weighing the piles, I was impressed that her pile is a lot heavier. Sorry about that, but that's the division of roles we came up with. You have just asked very little about subjects that would initially be with me. Just one thought in advance: it's good that we do this once a year. It is special that we do this with Members of the European Parliament, especially since, in a world that is not stable, Europe is increasingly seen not only as a market and currency union, but also as a protection for European countries in an uncertain and unstable world. In my mind, I have moved forward, I have often said this from a Europe of markets and currencies to a Europe that is also needed to carry out that other important task for us politicians: to keep the country safe. Not in the sense of defence and NATO, but safe by working with other countries in an unstable world, with large Russia at the side door, but also the instability in North Africa and the Middle East, unpredictability from China and until recently also unpredictability from the United States. It is precisely against that background that we have a third point: we have a community of values. Mrs Kaag will answer a number of more specific questions on the rule of law issues in Europe. It is precisely for this reason that we are concerned that a number of problems have really arisen and are still emerging in Europe in terms of the rule of law, because Europe is not only a market, currency and security but also a community of values. Then it is serious if there are concerns about Poland, Hungary and other countries. Against this background, a few specific questions have been asked. The first was about new own resources. To this end, we have asked the Commission to come forward with proposals for new own resources when drawing up the latest MFF in English. The Commission will present it in the middle, including as part of that Fit for 55 climate package. Of course, the Chamber will receive an appreciation of this. We will always assess new own resources on their own merits. As you know, unanimity is always required in the Council and national ratification of own resources. The Netherlands always has a reserved position in that classically. The last time we said to the MMF, it was plastic........................................................................................................................................................................................... We were also prepared to block the Germans and others to take another step with their own resources in the ETS. We're not big fans of new blue envelopes. We know all these positions, including from the Netherlands. Let's judge it on its merits every time it presents itself. Then the Recovery Fund. There are always countries that are making proposals to go further than you have already gone. There is indeed a discussion here and there whether you should not make it permanent. The Dutch government does not think so. We think it is a one-off and temporary situation, because in that particular situation of the corona crisis, it was logical that we should do this with each other. You can now see that what the Netherlands wanted to do has really been a unique Dutch contribution: in return for the Restoration Fund also implement reforms in accordance with the country-specific recommendations. You can see that the Commission is very tight on this. We see in the first impressions we have received from the plans from Italy and Greece, that it is actually starting to work. You will receive detailed appreciation of this if the appreciation is shared by the Commission as well. That goes through the Ecofin. You can see this is working. It's supposed to be a one-time thing. The underlying idea is that, in the event of a subsequent crisis, Southern European countries which reform will be better able to have their own economies in order to take measures to ensure that recovery packages are possible without European aid. The Netherlands has done the same. In that sense, it is therefore a one-time thing for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u115	There is a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u116	It's very good that the Prime Minister says it's a one-time thing. It's been noted. Now we also see that the Netherlands has not yet made any applications for this fund. My question to the Prime Minister is: can it be that the Netherlands is not going to make applications? We read in the paper today that the recovery is going very well. Or does the Prime Minister say that the 6 billion that the Netherlands can claim, are we going to do it anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u117	Sure, absolutely. No, no doubt. The question of the Recovery Fund was asked whether we can ensure that the funds are used carefully. The whole scheme of the fund is to prevent fraud. The conclusions on the recovery instrument also underlined the importance of effective fight against fraud in July 2020. This means setting up monitoring and implementation systems. It is also necessary to set up a system to monitor the Member States in relation to fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest. Compliance with EU and national law should also be ensured. The Commission will also assess whether the audit and control systems contained in the recovery plans provide sufficient assurance. In addition, the Commission, the European Anti-Fraud Office and the European Court of Auditors may carry out investigations into the implementation. That is the question of the control of funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u118	There is an interruption by Mr Dassen, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u119	If I have listened carefully, Mr Rutte indicates that the Recovery Fund is a one-off. Isn't it too early to draw any conclusions about this now? Should we not look first at the impact of the Recovery Fund and how it is used? If that has very great advantages for the European Union, should we say that we should perhaps move to a permanent fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u120	I don't think so. No. During the treatment in the Dutch Parliament, in the Second and First Chambers, we agreed that this is really a one-time thing. Then there is the discussion that goes a little further than the Recovery Fund. What are we doing about the difference between the economic and monetary foot of the Union? That was a question from the CDA. We share the concerns about ongoing debts and deficits as a result of the pandemic. We are closely monitoring the development of public finances in the various Member States. This is, of course, also part of the discussions in the Eurogroup and the Ecofin Council. In December, another letter was sent by Wopke Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance, on the budgetary rules of the SGP. The Dutch commitment is, of course, up to the next cabinet. If necessary, we will also have to discuss it with this cabinet. But we hope the formation goes so fast, that it can be discussed there. Of course, we must also look at what proposals the European Commission is going to make there. The fact is that this crisis has caused debts to be incurred, even here. The Netherlands is still around 60%. Of course, that's still very low, thank God. We're still triple A. That status also seems indestructible. We can see that even countries like Germany are already over 70%. Countries that were already very high, such as Italy and Greece, have, of course, increased further. Here's what you can imagine. France is now on, I thought, a debt of 120% compared to GNP. If interest rates rise by 1%, it will eat away more than a full per cent national income, just in order to be able to bear these additional interest charges. So it's about something. But I think that in this crisis it is inevitable that those debts have been incurred. That is why it is important to do everything possible to reduce these debts again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u121	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u122	I have another question on the previous point, namely the assessment of proposals submitted to the Recovery and Ferry Fund, particularly by countries such as Poland and Hungary. To what extent is it ensured that reforms promote democracy and the rule of law and at least not further undermine them? Will the Netherlands make an effort to ensure that this is also looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u123	This can only be done if state-of-law reforms were part of the country-specific recommendations. The rule of law can be important here in two ways. One. In order for funds to be paid out at all, a number of basic constitutional principles will have to be met, for example with regard to financial control. In addition, reforms on the rule of law may be required in the country-specific recommendations. We will then, of course, see whether this will return to the plans of those countries, but the Commission will, of course, do so before that. I have to say that so far I have noticed that the Commission is looking very closely at whether countries are actually implementing the country-specific recommendations. Two weeks ago I had a dinner with Von der Leyen, the President of the Commission, and I said: "Let's be careful. We should have no caveats and no reason to say in those country-specific recommendations: well, we don't have to. They really have to comply and I want to be able to explain to the Dutch Parliament that it is being spent in such a way that it also leads to those necessary reforms."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u124	I can well understand the Prime Minister's argument on this point, but even if it is included in those country-specific recommendations, it may also be the case that a project is being submitted that could undermine democracy and the rule of law as we in Europe want it to be. Let me give you an example. There are plans in Hungary to reform universities in a way that seems to restrict freedoms. If a plan were to be submitted, when there is no country-specific recommendation, it would be a risk. Could that be looked at as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u125	Of course, it would be very rude for Hungary to submit a plan to further restrict freedom of expression through funds from the Recovery Fund. Moreover, I do not rule out the fact that Hungary is continuing to draw up plans to limit matters that we consider to be normal. We have seen this this week, for example, in the case of homosexual rights, and that is, of course, very reprehensible. Then it is up to the Union to do something about it by different lines and by different means. This can also be done through the Restoration Fund, not directly on homosexual rights, but on the functioning of the rule of law. Then the recovery fund can be used to intervene. Furthermore, inter-group procedures or Article 7 procedures can also address the more fundamental harm caused by the rule of law. Furthermore, we have time to look at it. The Portuguese Presidency would very much like to conclude everything before 1 July. I told Atónio Costa: "I love you incredibly, but it's not gonna work, because it's so much. It's really gonna be Ecofin in July. We really want to have a moment to assess it all, because we also had the vague suspicion that you would like to."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u126	Mrs Piri, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u127	In my contribution, I had asked the Prime Minister a question. The Netherlands greatly pressed on these conditions to the gifts. Now each country has submitted a plan, except the Netherlands. We're the last country that didn't do that. How can you seriously criticise other countries' national plans if we have not even turned in our own plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u128	My dinner with Von der Leyen went halfway over this. I don't feel braked in any way. The Netherlands invests some 20 billion in this fund and we get about 6 billion back. That's fine, because we're a rich country. I don't mind that we pay more than we get back. Otherwise, it wouldn't work. But I feel fully entitled to do so. In addition, we must come forward with our proposals on time, not later than April next year and possibly earlier. And of course, we're going to collect that $6 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u129	In any case, I am glad that we are not leaving that 6 billion in Brussels. I think it does touch on the credibility of the cabinet if you take another's measure, while you don't even submit your own plans. The Commission has also made recommendations for reforms to the Netherlands. How does the Prime Minister view that? It is clear that he would like to raise the 6 billion, but how does he look at the reform conditions that the Commission has attached to this for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u130	If we expect the whole of Europe to be rather late in some countries, then the necessary reforms are now being carried out... that was our analysis. Why did Europe create distortions between the north and the south? In our analysis this is because in a number of countries too little has been done about the necessary reforms, about the large systems. This is always about retirement, the labour market, sometimes also the housing market. If you continue to reform these big social arrangements in a timely manner, it will have an enormous economic potential. You can see that in the Netherlands and in other countries. What do you see in countries that haven't? Italy has been growing at around 1% for 30 years. That is therefore far behind the European average. In our analysis, this is precisely because of the slow-down in the reform process. So I thought and we thought as a cabinet: we understand that countries are in big trouble; but if we are going to do this, can we agree that this is the last time we have to help, because they are really going to do the necessary reforms? If you ask them to do that, we have to do it ourselves. Then you cannot say: we want the 6 billion without demands. No, of course we are going to comply with that, but that does require political decision-making. We hope, of course, that there will be a formation. Then that's gonna be a cut so you can make a deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u131	I give the floor to Mrs In 't Veld, the European Parliament, D66, for her factual question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u132	I just want to make sure I understand what you're saying. You say: like Hungary, for example, deals with homosexual rights or attacks on journalists, academics or judges, we all find that regrettable, but this does not fall under the rule of law condition for the budget. But that regulation has been formulated in such a way that it does. It is not just about disadvantages for the European budget. It is really about violating everything that is covered by Article 2. Is it not true that this can and should be applied at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u133	There are three ways in which the European Commission can intervene, as everyone knows. This is through the rule of law regulation in the MFF, but it can also, of course, be done through the classical means of Court cases or Article 7 procedures. I always find a Court case a little more practical, because we now know through Article 7 that it ultimately leads to little. The possibility is there for good reasons, but eventually one other country can block it again. Then the Poles will vote against taking away the Hungarians' right to vote and vice versa. That, of course, remains a rather dead instrument in this dossier. The MFF legal instrument can be used, but that is what the European Parliament has agreed on at the heart of the matter, and we are also in favour of fighting against the rule of law violations that endanger the financial interests of the Union. That is quite broad, because of course you are talking about asking whether there is an independent judiciary and whether there is independent control and so on. You're gonna have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. Take those crazy proposals in Hungary now. What has been put out there about gay rights is so ridiculous that you wonder how that can be done in the European Union. It is primarily up to the Commission. They have also asked questions to Hungary. What are you doing here? So they seem to be the first set-up to a court case. Of course, that's what you have to ask questions about. Every time we look carefully at whether it is a violation against which the MFF instrument can also be used. However, it is not the case that the MFF instrument can be deployed across the full breadth of the breaches of the rule of law. In principle, they must be linked to the use of Union funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u134	A factual question from Mrs. In 't Veld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u135	Okay, the gay rights. But, of course, there is a very broad spectrum. I mentioned attacks on journalists. If there are no more pluralistic or pluralistic and independent media, then corruption cannot be combated. Do you not agree with me that this instrument should be used at the moment, not only in Hungary but also in a number of other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u136	Yes, I agree with Mrs In 't Veld that this is perfectly conceivable, but you will have to look at each case every time. You need the Commission to see if it can do it there. If you push up the MFF instrument too much, you may also run the risk of a Court procedure being challenged by Hungary. So you will have to look at what it is at once, but I agree with Mrs In 't Veld: if a country muzzles the press and therefore the wrong use of resources cannot be established, because the independent media have a major role in it, then that can very well be a reason to say to such a country, on the basis of the MFF instruments: this is a violation of the rule of law principles, and then it can no longer be. I do not want a country to establish this, a Member State of another Member State. This must be done through the Commission, because of course it has all the means to request this information. If it turned out that it could not be done by that route, they would immediately have a different route and they have already used it here, namely through a procedure at Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u137	The Prime Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u138	Yes. On the money side, there was another comment by Mr Bishop about the Hamilton moment. I'm not afraid of that. The European Union is not a federation. The European Union is exactly what it is: an association of countries that cooperate on a number of very important issues. That is why I think it is so important that we stay focused on whether the Union itself is ultimately able to borrow. There are some parties here who say that the whole Resistance Fund is already an example of debt pooling. I very much disagree with that. Then it would never have come through Frankfurt, or sorry, through Karlsruhe, through the German constitutional court. Eventually, the countries all guarantee their own cake tip. It's not common. But you've got to be really sharp on it. I am also opposed to such a Hamilton moment, because I, as a person, and this cabinet too, perhaps the parties in the coalition are thinking differently about this, because there is no reason for the Union now to have a money-creating instrument of its own. Then there are a few other questions. Mrs Kamminga asked a question about the internal market and the level playing field. I think we are very much in agreement on that, as you can see in the State of the Union, that strengthening the internal market is the cornerstone of a more competitive and resilient European Union. Where NATO is the most successful defence alliance in world history, the European Union is the most successful trading bloc in world history. We've never seen anything like it, and it's only gonna get better. That is why we must also protect that market from unfair competition. I have seen that even my party thinks so, and I am very happy about that. This means that the European Union must use market power adequately to enforce that level playing field with third countries with new and existing instruments. For example, it concerns state financing and state ownership of third-country companies, so that companies in Europe simply cannot compete fairly. This is also reflected in the Commission's proposal on distorting foreign subsidies published on 5 May. There is also an action plan on critical raw materials from the Commission, with current and future issues. Measures are also proposed to diversify supply chains. That is simply essential, also for the support. Because if companies in Europe cannot compete fairly with companies from countries outside Europe because they have unfair market access or are able to compete unfairly through state funding, you will of course lose acceptance under the whole project. This immediately affects another question from Mrs Kamminga, namely the question of strategic autonomy. Here it is very precise. There's the non-paper with Spain. I still like the fact that the Dutch Government, which is largely in the political centre, and the very left-wing Spanish Government, managed to bring that paper out together. In both countries there is some concern about this concept of "strategic autonomy." What you do not want is for this strategic autonomy to lead to a limitation of openness and international cooperation. That is why we are actually talking about 'open strategic autonomy'. That is still in full development, by the way. That debate will really take place in Europe. A lot of Member States are now echoing this Spanish-Dutch paper and it is mainly about strengthening the EU's resilience, actually along the lines of the previous answer. But that is no excuse for protectionism and isolationism, because I think that is death in the pot. Let's be honest. There are quite a few very large Member States in the European Union who think that is a little less dirty than we do. That is why I think you should stay so focused on this and conduct that debate openly and from all the different political traditions that we have in Europe. Then Mr. Kuzu would have thought he was no longer present...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u139	Mr Kuzu has signed off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u140	No problem. A brief answer to his question, however, for the Acts. He asked: how do you prevent a trade war between the United States and China? And how do you involve Europe in resolving this issue? In fact, you can see that there is considerable agreement on China between the EU and the United States. We're actually saying all three of these, but with a few different words. I think if you look Biden deep into his heart, he'll put it all even sharper than we do. But at the core, there is always the triple: China is a partner, China is a competitor, but China is sometimes also a system rival, or rival/system rival. You can also see that balance is shifting a bit. In Monday's NATO conclusions, you saw a lot more text about China than at the penultimate NATO summit in London in 2019. More emphasis is being placed on protecting our values, our interests, our security and also on a number of issues relating to state-of-the-art threats. We are really trying to find solutions to this, also in cooperation with the United States. That is why I think it is right that the dialogue between the EU and the United States has given some relaxation to trade relations. And it is also important for an EU-US China dialogue to take place in such a way that we can also work with each other. But I think it is very important that the European Union is a player, not a playing field, as some people have quoted here. Europe must not be the playing field, but the player. Europe needs to ensure that it has its own China strategy, also independently of the United States. And then, of course, we need to look for this cooperation, as we also took the initiative in Europe from the Netherlands a year ago to work with France, but also with Germany, on a more articulate China strategy from the European Union. Finally, there was a question to me about the patents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u141	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u142	My question concerns the position of Europe between America and China, particularly in the economic field. Does the Prime Minister recognise that we have recently seen on a regular basis that European and American interests are fundamentally different? I call it exporting our technology. Europe cannot do this autonomously. If we do, the Americans will draw a line and impose sanctions. If Dutch or European companies do so, America says: if you start trading with China, we will boycott you from the United States. How are we gonna fix that? The European interest is not the same as the American interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u143	That is why I say that there is indeed sometimes an accent difference between the American and European China strategies. The Americans, of course, want us to work together in this as a single block, but that will never work. We simply have our own position in that too, and I think that is important. There are, of course, differences of opinion within Europe as well; there are different views. I would say: never be naive, but do look for the right balance in those three strokes of partner, competitor and sometimes rival. In addition, China is really a different country from Russia. That was also the risk in NATO. We really said to each other there: "Where Russia is sometimes aggressive on points, in actions, China is sometimes a rival, but also a partner and also a competitor." Of course. And with regard to America's power, I say: yes, it may well be that we and the United States will have a conflict over China's approach at some point. We can and we shouldn't be afraid of that either. My experience is that the risk here is that you approach it very much from the abstraction: suppose there is such a discussion, for example about technology. Yet you have to look at the file where it plays, and it is often much more nuanced. And then it turns out you're gonna get out of there with each other, too. So I am not so afraid that that will eventually lead to a drifting apart, especially with this American government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u144	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u145	Because the Prime Minister is not only talking about China, but also about Russia, I ask the following question. My party considers it very important that Europe has its own China strategy. As far as we are concerned, strategic autonomy is very important. It can be open, it can be firm. And it should be, considering state-owned companies and a company like Huawei, operating in a way we don't want. On one point, however, I would like to hear a reflection from the Prime Minister, namely on consistency in our policies. Let's take a look at the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. We are talking about Russia, which operates even more aggressively on a number of points. Those are the words of the Prime Minister. But at Nord Stream 2 we say: but that is a purely commercial project. However, behind that is also a company like Gazprom, in the hands of the Russian state. It is explicitly used as a geopolitical instrument. There was also a recent threat from Putin to Ukraine: we are not going to supply gas to Ukraine if you do not change your policy. That's not consistent with each other, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u146	I have often talked to Trump about it and said: if you no longer send liquid natural gas to Europe anyway, the natural gas field also became army, but in the Netherlands, due to all the misery of the earthquakes in Groningen, we have decided to cut down faster and Norwegian gas is also limited, you will for the time being maintain a certain dependence on Russian gas in the transition to a different way of our energy supply. But that is also an interest of Russia, it is not just a European interest. There's a few things that matter. We do regard Nord Stream 2 as a commercial project. At the same time, the reverse flow for Ukraine has been secured. We have said that it is crucial that the Nord Streamgas pipelines never lead to Ukraine being put under pressure or the weakening of Ukraine's position in the energy supply. I think this is settled. But, indeed, this is also linked to a balance sheet, because Russia has an interest in exports, but we also have an interest in Russian gas, which you must note is that you cannot shut down everything. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u147	Your last interruption, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u148	I know the Prime Minister is often optimistic. You think it is settled, but I find that difficult to compare with Putin's statement three weeks ago that he wants to use it as a means of exerting pressure on Ukraine. He just said that explicitly. If this is to happen in the near future, will we receive an apology from the Prime Minister and the recognition that it is more than a commercial project, which Nord Stream 2, and that perhaps we should have used a sanction after all, namely the failure to continue construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u149	No, I'm certainly not going to make predictions about the predictability of the President of the Russian Federation. I sure as hell wouldn't dare. However, I believe that there are a number of preconditions in the provisions currently in place regarding the gas supply from Russia, the relationship with Ukraine and what Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, himself has organised in terms of Ukraine's energy position. And yes, Mr Van der Lee, I would also like to be completely independent of Russia for our energy supply, but then we are a little further. We are trying to get rid of the coal first and we really need as much gas as energy fuel in the years to come, I fear. That includes watching how you get it here, in a way that we can't be put under pressure by the Russians. I can't guarantee 100%, but I think it's sufficiently arranged. Finally, Mr President, the patents for COVID-19. We're not ideologically involved in that as a cabinet at all. I think you should keep looking at what works here. As far as patents are concerned, it is simply not easy. We must, of course, be careful that intellectual property also plays an important role in the safe transfer of knowledge, plays a role in the supply chain and can also promote innovation. Sometimes you have to choose against it and sometimes you can. You have to look at it all the time. However, I am always careful when discussing foreign policy. Beware of those who think one way to sail the pure course, because sometimes it is really more nuanced. I therefore believe that, as an international community, we should address the existing bottlenecks in vaccine production. This concerns export bans, lack of raw materials and qualified personnel. To be honest, there are really much bigger problems than the question of what exactly the patents are about. Ultimately, we are talking about universal and rapid access to vaccines. That is vital, and that is also the only way to get rid of this misery worldwide. This is both humanitarian and practical in our interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u150	Mrs Piri, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u151	In any case, I am pleased to hear from the Prime Minister that he is not ideologically involved and that we must do everything we can to make the vaccines available to all people as quickly as possible, including those countries where they do not yet have access to them. What is the debate within the European Union about the suspension of patents?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u152	I would like to find out for the second time, but I think it has been agreed in Europe that we will suspend if that helps. I don't think anything's changed. The goal is to export those things. Europe exports more than any other part of the world. We've exported massive patents. Look at Belgium, which exports eight times as much as it produces. Anyway, that's partly because there are the big production sites there. I'd say anything that works, we should do it. If at some point it can help to suspend the patents, then we certainly should. But the risk of this is that we think that is the solution. The real big problems are much more in the raw materials and the supply chains. It's not like that vaccine is made at one point. This often travels through factories in semi-finished products before it is filled. It also has to do with export bans and having qualified personnel. One of the enormous problems we had with the delivery of vaccines in March, April was precisely because of the production. Factories suddenly fell completely silent. At all the puncture locations that made that again... Now fortunately things are going well, but we also had a while that went less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u153	I would like to come back to the rule of law condition and Hungary and Poland. In fact, I think that in this Chamber, but also in the European Parliament, there is a fairly broad feeling that tax money should not actually go to these countries if the situation does not improve there. I would like to ask the Prime Minister two questions. One: does he agree with me that there is something very clear about the independent judiciary in the country-specific recommendations on the Recovery Fund for Poland? Isn't that a hook to actually try to pick something up? Secondly, does he agree with me that the Commission can apply the constitutional conditionality from 1 January and is he in favour of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u154	That is not what I discussed in the European Council and what the House of Representatives subsequently said yes to. I agreed with the compromise at the December European Council that the MFF rule of law has been in force since 1 January. It's the flash pole that's on. I also agreed that the Commission should start its investigation work on 1 January. So the flash pole flashes. The President of the Commission has assured us that findings will also be taken into account in any measures proposed by the Commission following the ruling of the Court of Justice, which is now under way. That means that no divorce is set aside. So there's no hole either. In addition, of course, the draft guidelines were shared by the Commission this week with the Member States. Fortunately, that is now on schedule. The EU Court has said that it will speed up the process of examining the application for annulment. But the compromise reached by the European Council in December means that we have agreed to the flash pole. This means flashing, but we accept that the Commission will wait until the Court case is dealt with and the guidelines are drawn up when the fines are imposed. Both are moving fast now. Again, as I said earlier, this regulation is not intended to replace the existing rule-of-law instruments. It is a complement to that, because they also have the other instruments. Finally, it is not the case that the MFF provides a basis for not paying out preventive funds. There isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u155	It's a flash pole that flashes. My experience is that when a flash pole flashes three times, the enforcement agencies don't wait very long to make sure that envelope ends up in your mailbox. If you don't pay quickly, the collection fines are gonna run up pretty good, too. I'd like to believe the Prime Minister when he says there's a rush, but I want it to be speeded up. Very flat: the elections are coming and what is going to happen in these two countries? I think the Prime Minister knows that better than anyone. The existing leaders are going to hand out cohesion gifts, i.e. financial gifts from European funds, paid with Dutch taxpayers' money, which will allow them to be re-elected and allow this constitutional rot to continue. I am therefore asking the Prime Minister, despite the December agreement, which I myself do not really like, what is possible to ensure that Dutch taxpayers' money does not go to those regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u156	What I have just said is that I stand for the compromise in the European Council. I closed it myself, and the Chamber then agreed to it in the debates. This means that, although of course you would prefer that penalties be imposed immediately, I have accepted that the flash pole is on, but the fine is not yet paid. It's just a deal, so that's what I stand for. I'm not running away from that either. Two things are important here. It is important that these draft guidelines are put in place. They have now been shared with the Member States. That went a lot faster than they said. Last week I also said at dinner with Von der Leyen: we have to do that quickly, because this is actually a kind of no-man's-land, which you might want to get out of soon. The EU Court has said that it will deal with the annulment action as soon as possible. That is really important, because otherwise the idea is that we now suddenly have the instrument for the rule of law, but that is, of course, just the Court cases. The Commission has not for nothing started a Court case, at least in preparation for it, because of these idiotic judgments on gay rights in Hungary. So we are working to do so as soon as possible, but the December compromise leaves room for the Commission to flash but not to impose the fine, that is just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u157	I still have a question on Mr Sjoerdsma's question, because I too have a bit of an unsatisfactory feeling. I hear the Prime Minister explaining the situation and the difficulty, but how long will it take before the Court? It is a good thing that the Court is picking it up more quickly, but at the same time I am not always impressed by the speed and speed of action there. Is there any indication of that? I'm sure that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u158	I don't have that right here. I'll find out for the second term if we have any idea how fast that goes. I can't say for sure. It is true that the Court has decided to deal with it more quickly, but I am going to see what acceleration means here and whether we have any idea how fast that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u159	Mrs In 't Veld, European Parliament, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u160	So just for the officials listening in: go back to the Kamminga question for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u161	Two reasons have now been put forward, including by the European Commission, to delay the application of that conditionality principle. One is that two cases have been brought by Hungary and Poland. Two concern those directives. Neither has a so-called'suspensive effect'. To stick to Sjoerd Sjoerdsma's analogy: it's like a law has been passed in the Netherlands that says you can't drive faster than 100 or 130, let's say, but because a citizen has gone to court to fight that law, we're not going to apply that law yet. That's bullshit, of course. The European Parliament wants the Commission simply to start applying that law now, indeed. You say you are behind it, but the Council, in front of you, said to the Commission in December: boys, calm down, wait for the trial. There is no legal basis for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u162	It is a political compromise. That was the political compromise in December. Just as simple: otherwise we wouldn't have had MFF and we wouldn't have had a recovery fund. That's how hard it is. I have seen that the European Parliament has put pressure on the Commission and said: hurry up. Well, I respect that. You actually corrected the European Council last time compared to the results in July, and I was pleased with that, as I admit. I believe one of you said the same thing. Yes, Mrs Piri said that: a compliment to ourselves. That's right, you did. Oh, yes, Mrs De Lange has rightly made that point, and I very much agree with that. Here too, it is a political compromise, and that is what I stand for. I am not always happy with the compromises either, but yes, that is politics. But it's not like a case like this is gonna go away. The investigative work will simply start on 1 January 2021 and findings will all be taken into account for the measures. No violation is set aside. There's no hole. Only the actual imposition of the fine can indeed only take place after guidelines and the Court of Justice, unless the Commission is under pressure from the European Parliament. I hope so, but I am in favour of the compromise. I also think it is silly to compromise and then say here: what a bad compromise. I shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u163	I know that the Prime Minister and the Government have made a real commitment to the rule of law mechanism, including my group's compliments on that. Unfortunately, however, we do know that it has already become a weakened instrument. And we also know that these Council conclusions weaken it further. Now I hear the Prime Minister say that he has signed this compromise and that he is waiting for the Court's ruling first. The same Council conclusion also provides for a closer interpretation of the conditions to be met by this new rule of law mechanism. My question is, then, because you say that my signature is underneath it, or the legal interpretation used by the cabinet is either the text of the law or the text with your signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u164	The text of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u165	Well, then I'm very happy to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u166	I checked it then, and I would ask you to confirm it again for the second term. We checked it with the Council's lawyers at the time. A Council conclusion can never overrule a legal text. The legal text was negotiated with the European Parliament and that state. That is an interpretation of how the European Council, as the political guiding body of the European Union, believes that legal texts should be dealt with, but adopted legal texts always prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u167	Last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u168	Well, at least I'm glad to hear this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u169	That is the institutional balance in the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u170	Yes, but you could also say the same for the signature below that we are waiting for a ruling from the European Court of Justice. On the one hand, the Prime Minister says that we are going ahead with the text of the law, which has been negotiated. But if it is another aspect, namely the question of when this instrument will enter into force, he will be hiding behind a political agreement. Then I'll ask the Prime Minister what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u171	There are two different things. One. You have negotiated the legislative text that has been negotiated with Parliament and finally drawn up in trialogen et cetera. That's where the legal text goes. Again, I ask for a final check, but that is my takeaway from that European Council. In addition, the Commission has said that we are not going to send the penalties until after we have drawn up the guideline and served the case before the Court. The European Council took note of this and did not object to it. That was the compromise. Otherwise, no MFF would have come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u172	Mr Van Dijk, SP. I don't think the other microphone's been cleaned yet. He'll do it. A firm kick and I think he'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u173	No, I'm gonna use this one. Always on the flanks, huh? I asked a question about the law passed in Hungary this week, the so-called law prohibiting the promotion of homosexuality. As a result, even schools can get a fine if they pay attention to homosexuality. It's totally reprehensible, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u174	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u175	Do you include this in the discussion you have just mentioned? Could that be a reason to speed things up? And what is the government's assessment of this development?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u176	First of all, I don't think we need to shout at each other in how horrible this is. So I really agree with what Mr. Van Dijk says about that. It's reprehensible. It makes information for minors even more difficult. But it also connects homosexuality and paedophilia. That's actually what those lyrics say. It's really all so horrible. This makes it even more difficult to work for equal rights for lhbti'ers and young people and to speak openly about sexuality, about orientation. As I said, the European Union is a market and a currency and a security guarantee for the Member States. You are stronger together; the wagon in the circle against the evil outside world. But that can only be done if it is also a value community, and this is totally contrary to the idea that we are also a value community. Von der Leyen, the President of the Commission, was also very clear about this. Therefore, they have also started an investigation, examining whether this law is contrary to Union law. That is actually the most effective instrument the Commission has. That is much more effective, I think, than the Article 7 procedures. Mrs Kaag, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, intends to address the Hungarian Government together with the Benelux colleagues. I will do that next week in the European Council. We just talked about that. I understand that the Council Minister for Foreign Affairs and Margin will also speak with the French and Danish colleagues with the relevant Commissioner, Mrs Jourová, in order to encourage the Commission to do everything in its power to take action. That will probably be in the Foreign Affairs Council. I do that in the European Council. So we move together, each in the places where that is the issue. And of course we do so in the bilateral talks with Hungary. Finally, Mr President. Many thanks for the beautiful booklet on the green industrial policy, in which Eric Wiebes is rightly staged. It literally says: "Selden wrote a VVD minister a vision that is so close to the ideas of GroenLinks." Well, I'd say, you know, that promises a lot of good! Yesterday, Mrs Minnesma and the "moonshot" projects came along, and I think maybe we'll figure it out. Thanks, by the way. There's a lot more in the book and I'm going to read it. By the way, I agree that you need that basic industry in the Netherlands. 'Cause if she doesn't, she's gonna pollute somewhere else. We prefer them here and non-polluting. Then you should see how the Netherlands can be a showroom of how to produce clean!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u177	Before we go any further, there's a little cleaning. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his first-term contribution. We'll clean for a moment and then I'll give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u178	Thank you, Madam President. It's quite remarkable, isn't it? I was just listening to the Prime Minister. You know we'll be invited back to the informant tomorrow. I hope all good people have heard all these subtle messages as well. So many chances! New rounds, new opportunities. You never know. In any case, I also wanted to take advantage of this moment to express my appreciation and respect for the enormous commitment and professional life and man Hans van Baalen here, of course also towards his family. I hope that this particular day of debate is not a coincidence after all, but a kind of destiny; that it all comes together to commemorate this particular MEP in a way that suits him and is worthy of him. I've been able to make a lot of beautiful new debuts these last few weeks. For the first time in the State of the Union, I would also like to say perhaps three opening words about, I think, the same as the Prime Minister and not entirely coincidentally happy, that as Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Trade and Development, I am truly convinced that we need the EU more than ever. And not just because of the big challenges: climate change, migration, trade tensions. Everything requires a European answer. That is a start for me, and it is also an effect. There are a lot of opportunities there, and it's also an assignment. And it is in the Dutch interest, also from our history, that we try to provide guidance, as good and as bad as it can, to form the way you respond to those challenges. This means that we must use, strengthen and ultimately increase our influence and our standing, including as co-founder of the European Union. A small country like the Netherlands, with a large, relevant economy, has everything to do with influence. It's not about power, it's about influence, and how you can use it wisely. This also means, of course, that we must think ahead, invest in people, in human capital, resources, knowledge and networks. And it has been remembered many times now, but I really want to say this myself: we are much more than a shared market and currency. This is how it started, of course, as a market, the Coal and Steel Community, from a war situation, and we have grown and become a shared community of values. And it is also up to the Netherlands to constantly give a voice to that, from the values, and to dare to stand for it, especially in times of crisis, political pressure and the quiet, silent, silent erosion that actually takes place in our own neighbourhood. It is our backyard, and if we do not pay attention here and watch and speak out, and also do not use the means when that is possible, we are actually less valuable than the words we are talking about. So it's incredibly important. I would now like to continue answering the questions that have been asked. I have some cups. Maybe I'll repeat them...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u179	There is an interruption by Mrs Maeijer of the PVV, first of all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u180	A brief question about the introduction. I heard the Minister say 'everything deserves a European answer', or 'everything needs a European answer'. Could you perhaps point that out a little more? What's that "all"? Are there any red lines left, or is it really literally that there should be a European response to every issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u181	I can make it very low, very flat. You can see in all areas that there is always an EU element. Whether it be aviation: in the discussion around the MH17 we also look at what the agreements are with airlines about flying over conflict zones. If you look at the health care, the pandemic. If you look at the minimum wage, a pursuit of the social pillars. We have, of course, as the Netherlands, and certainly myself as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade and OS... People like to look at us, they like to receive us. But if you say "the EU finds this and we do" it will have much more impact. So from high to low. And the major challenges in this context, I put this remark: climate change, migration, security, trade investment, trade agreements, trade agreements, they are a number of examples that all require a European response. It is the only way to really move forward and not only to protect the prosperity and well-being of Dutch citizens, but also to move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u182	Thank you. Yeah, that's a hell of a lot. So that's literally "everything." Is there not a single red line, for example, something that should not receive a European response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u183	Well, I just told you, I started out very flat. I started with everything that is already happening, so health, aviation agreements, the recent discussions around the social pillars. And that's not unique. I do not know whether Mrs Maeijer addresses me because she thinks that this is a D66 opinion, but this is a cabinet position, expressed in many periods. It's also the reality of our lives. I know that it is very easy to pretend that there is prosperity in the Netherlands without an EU. I just don't think that's true. In the end, we are still picking up more, also thanks to our EU membership, than if we were not members. So let's keep the maths right here. The major challenges, the consequences of climate change and all issues that are cross-border require not only European coordination, but a real European response, so you must want and use the EU's knowledge, resources and capacity to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u184	It was a very nice introduction. It certainly requires a European perspective. I heard the minister say that education is very important. I fully agree with that. Of course, we have the Erasmus programme. That is certainly very well available for wo-students. That should actually be extended to HBO and MBO students, so that they could make even more free use of it. So question one is how the minister looks at that. Then I have another question. I understood that up to 2000 we always made grants available to the College of Europe. That's a college where...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u185	I know the College of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u186	Look, that's great. I was curious to see why we stopped doing that and whether we could perhaps pick that up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u187	I have three things about education and science. We have never met the Lisbon standard in terms of investment in science. That's basically our bread and butter. I would very much like us to strive in the future to achieve that standard. I can imagine that Mr Dassen agrees. When you talk about student exchange, also HBO and MBO students, so of course also knowledge exchange, I don't know where the space is in the scheme right now, but I think it's extremely important. It also fits with a tradition that we naturally guide. As far as the College of Europe is concerned, I have to ask the Ministry of OCW what has happened since the year 2000. I would like to come back to it briefly in the second term. As Mr Rutte has quite rightly used as a method: the officials will think about it, listening to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u188	Mr Roos, European Parliament, JA21, for his actual question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u189	I need some clarification of what the Minister said, namely that the Netherlands needs the EU. Can the Minister explain why countries such as Switzerland, Norway and Iceland are doing so well in the social and economic fields?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u190	That's a big question! Norway has of course had its oil and gas, but Norway has a very different tradition. We are intertwined with all the countries around us. Norway has chosen not to join the European Union in the end. I think a lot of people in Norway regret that and others don't. Norway is doing well, but has a much smaller population composition and a different economy. With all due respect to our great Norwegian friends, I would honestly not compare the Dutch economy and our position within the European Union with that of Norway. They have more scope for foreign policy, for example. They always do exciting things there. At Switzerland it is very much in the culture. I am also aware of the fact that they have now withdrawn negotiations with the EU. There too, it was very tight. Of course, like the Norwegians, the Swiss are not members, but they are very much in the interest of the European Union. I give it to you to do if they said they would withdraw, as some parties in this Parliament would actually suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u191	I agree with Mrs Maeijer's question. I think that the Minister has a bit of a passion for Europe, which she undoubtedly has from her party politics, but I very much wonder if the cabinet shares the view that everything should ultimately be seen as European. Things like education, care, housing and quite a few more are ultimate national tasks and powers, aren't they? There may be some coordination at European level, but that is a little faint, because that is a level of detail. Those are public, national tasks, aren't they? Do you share that opinion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u192	I have always been surprised how the SP and the PVV can sometimes find each other very hard on the flanks. That's always interesting to notice. It is nice to play with words, but I have said that examples such as climate change, migration, security and trade tensions require a European response. I have also said: flatly, there is coordination at many sectoral levels. We can pretend that there is no European cooperation and consultation and that we do not have all these European Councils, but that is simply not the case. That is the reality. I did not say that health should become an intra-European issue. It's already happening! There's alignment. So, honestly, this is a bit of a word game. It doesn't come from lovers. I think that membership of the European Union, wanting to be there and having an influence on the direction and choices, is not only sensible, but also simple and business-like, given the security, value community and future of the Netherlands, also in terms of jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u193	I think this is a very simple mistake on the part of the Minister. I think that European policy has slipped a lot in this respect. People say and masse... I call it retirement. But health care, education and housing are also national tasks, which should not end up in Europe's tentacles. It would be nice if the Minister shared that. If she doesn't share that, we'll know where she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u194	I think the Minister has just responded. Then Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u195	The minister talks about word games. I think it's good to avoid it, because it only evokes fog, mist and noise. However, I am surprised that the Minister does not refer back to the Lisbon Treaty, which simply identifies the different categories of EU intervention. Some areas are the Member States. Only on request can the EU do something more in the area of coordination or support. I don't hear that coming back from the Minister's story. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u196	That's actually right, but that wasn't my bet either. I indicated a direction. I gave examples. After that, questions raise the suggestion as if I were to depart from the Treaty of Lisbon. That's not true, but that's more about the questioning than my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u197	To be honest, I find this a little too thin. If there are any questions on this point, I can imagine that the Minister is basically referring to the treaty texts and the agreements and says: from here we are operating. I can't hear the Minister say that. So I understand very well that Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Maeijer say: wait a minute, what is going on here? Is everything being swept up in one heap or is this three-step approach also the starting point for the Minister? That is my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u198	I stand here for cabinet policy and there is no change in cabinet policy. But there has also been rightly written by the Cabinet in all the letters on all issues... Climate change, migration, security and trade tensions I have explicitly mentioned as major examples of where a European response is most effective. At the same time, I did not talk about treaty changes. Then a question made as if I had suggested that all things at all levels should suddenly become intra-European. That is not the case, because there is coordination, consultation, and the national is still the national. At present, you will not find in any text any proposal to change that. But I also find it a little strange to have to name what has not been said and what it is not about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u199	Finally. So it gets a bit bogged down and we still stay in a word game. I remember Mrs Maeijer's question and I remind the Minister: how broad is that? Then, very flat, the answer: actually everything. But that is not the case, as I understand from the Minister. I would then like to insist on a careful distinction and simply go back to the basics: these are the treaty texts, this is the starting point, that is what we are sticking to, that is Dutch policy and that is how Dutch policy is designed. It prevents noise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u200	There is one distinction, I say, as a outgoing minister. Of course, we are still entering into negotiations and talks in which there are opportunities, opportunities and space for the Netherlands to build up, for example, more power. In fact, Mr Bishop is asking a outgoing cabinet to confirm everything now and to say that everything is always the same. That's nostalgic, but that's not the reality of this world. That is why, from a geo-economic and geo-political point of view, the cabinet believes that you have also noticed from some of the texts of this cabinet that, where appropriate, we should be able and willing to move along the right paths, with consultation of Parliament. But no suggestion has been made for a treaty change. We are also about to get to it when we talk about the European Conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u201	Perhaps it would be a good idea for you to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u202	Yes. Then I still have the headline: outside the EU. There was a question from Mr Sjoerdsma: it is time for closer defence cooperation in the European field and the Netherlands should specialise. A great deal has already been exchanged with the Minister of Defence during the 2020 budget debate. Motions have been adopted on scenarios for possible specialisation routes within international partnerships. We're looking at how defense task specialization can take place. The Secretary of Defense is preparing a letter, as I think Mr Sjoerdsma knows, to share it with the Chamber. At EU level, of course, we are looking at the PESCO and EDIDP/EDF projects. These are steps in this direction in areas where specialization may be desirable. There was a question from Mr Van Dijk about military cooperation in the EU. His position was that the EU has set up a European Defence Fund and a European Peace Facility in recent years. What does the Minister think of this militarisation of the EU? Well, a fund and a peace facility have been set up. European defence cooperation is a step towards making the EU more resilient in a rapidly changing world. It is also part of a core safety task. We just want the EU to be a little more on its own. An opinion has been issued by the AIV, which has been discussed with your Chamber. The AIV calls for steps to improve European defence cooperation. So I do not see this as a form of militarisation, but rather as a way of making better use of resources from the point of view of European self-employment and better functioning within NATO. The latter was discussed in the run-up to the NATO summit. Mrs Kamminga asked: what are the effects of the apparently stricter course towards China as a result of Biden's visit? I believe that the Prime Minister has already appointed a number of matters on this matter. The EU-US Summit was interesting. After that, I spoke to the trade negotiator, as Ambassador Tai called. I have stressed that we really welcome the cooperation, the like spirit, between the EU and the US towards China. We need to work together where possible and perhaps, as the Prime Minister has already appointed, we should also be able to discuss the differences where they exist. But, of course, we are allies in a broad sense. Of course, there are also competitive moments between the EU and the US, but we need to be able to discuss them. Agreements and a Trade and Technology Council have been announced by the EU and the US in the framework of technology, technology shielding and the preservation or strengthening of a technological edge. So it actually takes place in a triangle. We will continue to set our own course, no matter how good and no matter how bad that may go. There was also a question from Mrs Kamminga about how we look at more geopolitical commitment from OS funds or the neighbourhood policy. Countries such as Russia and China, of course, do this very ostentatiously. It's clear they're doing it and what quantities they're doing it with. The requirements package follows after the investment. We see that all the time at the Belt and Road Initiative. It's just a matter of concern; I want to recognize that. Many countries, both in Africa and countries that had originally signed the Belt and Road Initiative, are now coming back from that. Countries on the African continent have, of course, noticed that the cheque was easily signed. But the agreements and political or economic expectations were so great that people want to get out more often. This means that we must use our instruments to provide a credible, fast and effective alternative, but with our own conditionality in the areas of governance, rule of law, anti-corruption and human rights. That is often not so easy, because the easier, fast money is still often from China. That is a bit of the competition, the political struggle for values that we are also in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u203	Thank you. A question from Mrs Kamminga, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u204	Thank you very much for that answer. I understand very well. But my question also saw a little bit of the fact that I think we are doing a lot, especially in those countries that I mentioned as an example. So I get that we're looking at what else we might be able to do, also considering China and Russia. But can't we explain it better, especially where we're already doing it? Can't we do something more about that? We are often one of the biggest donors in such countries as the EU, or whatever you want to call it. I regret the fact that countries other than the European Union are taking credit for their image and that the EU is not there for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u205	You're absolutely right. I'll say two things about it. The so-called "Team Europe" approach is really starting to work. All EU countries often combine bilateral resources with the EU. This also includes political representation. It is often also a means of pressure in countries where it is difficult. I must also say that in many countries a large bridge is more visible than the projects we are doing in the area of so-called capacity-building of the police. Sometimes we can't compete with that. I think Mrs. Kamminga knows very well what I mean visually. But today the Commission is also looking much better at what we can do to increase that visibility and thus make the bridge to 'hey, Europe has not forgotten us, there are opportunities'. Then there is a question from Mr Sjoerdsma: what is the cabinet going to do to make real work of abolishing the veto on foreign policy? We've appointed this at other times in the last two days. We are in favour of the more frequent use of Qualified Majority Voting within the Common Foreign Security Policy. Mr Sjoerdsma knows that. The field of forces is not yet so bad that it is really being adapted, but we are still working to increase the level of support among Member States. Furthermore, we want to use every moment to increase the effectiveness of our external action as an EU. There are some good examples of this these days. Foreign ministers go on behalf of the EU to certain crisis countries. For example, the Finnish Foreign Minister went to Ethiopia. He visited the Tigray region. The Swedish Minister, along with my predecessor, Stef Blok, I believe, went to Ukraine. For example, there are many ideas with which we try to make that visible. It is not an alternative to Qualified Majority Voting, but it is a way to act faster. I'm joining the customs union. I have had a few questions from Mrs Piri on Turkey. Why do we intend to further strengthen the trade relationship with Turkey while human rights are still being violated on a daily basis? You know, Mrs Piri, through the President-in-Office of the Council, that we have incorporated clear language on the rule of law and human rights into the March European Council conclusions. It's still an integral part. As we discussed earlier today, the fact that perhaps a restart is being made with the discussion of the modernisation of the customs union with Turkey does not mean that we are suddenly going to make it to the end. Far from it. We use the dialogue to see if we can introduce benchmarks. The criteria are really up to the Commission and we will want to stick to them as soon as they are formulated more clearly. I am also going to include this in the margins of the General Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u206	I don't want to be silly. The Minister moves in very different circles, but there are also people watching at home, and I notice that a lot of professional jargon and English are spoken. I would like to ask, just for the sake of clarity, whether it can be explained what it means. We would very much like to bring citizens closer to politics. This seems like one of the ways to do that. When you're in all these meetings, you hear all that and it's in your head; I get that. But still, my request. Otherwise, I'm only gonna get to know how many English words are used here. Clear language, as you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u207	Maybe you'd like me to back you up. Indeed, I get a lot of emails, in many different debates anyway, about difficult language and English concepts. So it's good to give an explanation of that sometimes. I am referring to abbreviations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u208	I totally understand Mrs. Van der Plas. Since I came back to the Netherlands I have tried very hard to translate everything. Turns out what? The other people who watch don't know what you're talking about, because everyone knows those terms. So she's right: I think we can find each other somewhere in the middle. If we come to meetings of this kind, we must get them translated and written out in Dutch. Sometimes you don't get it anymore, because you also know: the abbreviation is easier to remember than the completely written out in the Dutch translated version. But we will certainly all, the whole cabinet, do our best, because that is part of it. Dutch is our mother tongue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u209	Unfortunately, Mrs Piri, you no longer have any interruptions, but you will have a second term. I will give the floor to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u210	Then there was a question from Mrs Piri about how Nord Stream 2 fits into geopolitical union. I am looking at the President, because I do not know whether Mr Rutte has answered that question, because it has been about Nord Stream for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u211	The Prime Minister answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u212	Then there was a question from Mrs Kamminga about the sanctions for Belarus and the news that Austria might want to exclude the financial sector. How can we prevent that? It is indeed reported in the media. I can't confirm if that's really true. There are always partial interests of a number of countries, especially from the region itself, who think: oh, yes, a sanction is good, but this sector is also important to me. So I want to assess the package if it is ahead and then look at whether it is hard enough and there are no wrong exceptions for reasons that do not strengthen the policy. I'll get back to you on that. Mrs Kamminga and I have had a few exchanges of views on this matter over the last few days. I did the same with Mrs Mulder in another debate. It can be assured that the whole cabinet wants to be very strict on these sanctions. The European Security Council. I don't know if this came back to Mr. Rutte, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u213	I don't think that question was answered by Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u214	Are we in favour of setting up a European Security Council? This is proposed by the International Affairs Advisory Council. We are not in favour of it at this stage. This is also expressed in the cabinet response, as Mr Amhaouch knows. We see that a large majority of EU Member States and European NATO counterparts will not be in favour. It will then be a European Security Council in which only France, Germany and the UK would be represented. Giving the United Kingdom an informal voice, even though they have just left the Union, is not convenient. There are many other ways of being European effective, talking about European security and working together. This is not the step for us at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u215	The Minister says now is not the time. Then there is the question of what the alternatives are and whether we are working on achieving the same mechanism so that we can act decisively for European security interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u216	As far as military cooperation is concerned, I have already mentioned other matters. A European Security Council is ultimately about the decisions you make. A European chair in the UN Security Council, the United Nations Security Council, has been mentioned for much longer. When you talk about global issues of peace and security that affect us, I think that is equally important. In view of the history of the past at least two decades, I think, little or no progress has been made at this time, it is not the time to say it politely, but if there are any other details, I will come back to it shortly in the second term. Then I'll move on to the head of the rule of law. I think there has been a lot of exchanges with Prime Minister Rutte on this. Mr Sjoerdsma asked how we are going to ensure that the MFF rule of law is deployed against Poland and Hungary as soon as possible. I have no additional comment from the cabinet. Mrs Kamminga asked whether, pending the Court proceedings on the MFF rule of law, we could not include funds in advance. Within this MFF there is no ground for non-payment of funds. That's just been explained. Mr Dassen van Volt asked what we can do as the Netherlands to stop erosion and what instrument we have at our disposal. I think it is clear from this debate, the other debates and the letters from the cabinet that we share the concerns surrounding the erosion and erosion of the rule of law and the Union. We welcome the strengthening of the EU's instruments, and the European Parliament deserves not only a moment 'you are welcome' here, but also a great deal of gratitude and gratitude for the political courage and determination to get this done. Now that, for the first time, we have a rule of law conditionality within the new MFF, we can and must also make use of the annual rule of law reporting and reinforced constitutional dialogue in the Council. We also need to use the funds. We can also do this preventively, which can strengthen civil society in many countries in order to make the critical voice heard, the alternative sound, and so also to re-execute the Union values in a different way. Then there was a question from Mr Dassen van Volt. It might have been a question to the mp. His question was: do we agree that Greece and Denmark, like Hungary and Poland, are less attracted to the rule of law? It goes too far to align the deliberate undermining of the rule of law, as we see it in Hungary and Poland, with certain constitutional problems in Member States such as Greece and Denmark. But all Member States must have done their homework. It simply needs to be in order, as is evident from the annual report on the rule of law published by the Commission last year, unless there are special elements. Mr Dassen refers to this. It's like comparing apples to pears to think about Denmark, to think about Hungary and Poland. However, Mr Dassen may be concerned with the principle of application.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u217	I think it is equally good to clarify that I am absolutely not pulling that in the same direction. I don't think that was the question I asked. In any case, I welcome the answer given by Mrs... eh Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u218	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u219	I almost wanted to turn it around! Let me make this clear: I am not putting that on the same page either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u220	Fine. I also take with me Mr Dassen that we should look critically at all and at ourselves. That is, of course, a continuous task, because otherwise you will not be credible. Mr Kuzu van DENK asked: what are we going to do at EU level to stop right-wing extremists and right-wing populist threats? In the EU and internationally, increasing attention is being paid to right-wing extremism and terrorism. The counter-terrorism approach and the package of measures are aimed at countering the threat of right-wing extremism, including at EU level. Right-wing extremism is, in addition to jihadism, a priority in the EU Internet Forum. The Commission, Member States and Internet companies are working together voluntarily to support the internet sector in recognising and countering right-wing extremist content or content on the Internet. The EU Regulation allows Member States to prevent the spread of terrorist content online. Within one year, an authority will have to be set up to support this. So we're active. It's one way to do this, but in the end we've been talking about it before. It's our own behavior. We must appoint matters when they arise in our own community, for example within schools and education. It's about raising the public's awareness. The ongoing dialogue on worrying issues needs to be initiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u221	I assume that where right-wing extremists are mentioned, they are also called left-wing extremists, because I do not think that either extremism is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u222	Sure. I believe that all forms of extremism are undesirable and may be threatening. Of course, special reports have recently been issued. You can also see it in the public annual report of the AIVD. In addition to radical Islam, radical movements, salafism, influence and undermining, extreme right movements are explicitly mentioned. This results from analysis and reporting. The annual report is politically neutral. It concerns information and an analysis of movements and trends.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u223	That's right. I do know that report. My comment was more supplementary, otherwise perhaps the impression may arise that only right-wing extremism is being persecuted and addressed. My comment was more: left-wing extremism can be just as dangerous and extreme. Terrorist actions can result from this too. I just want to make sure that this is included and not just right-wing extremism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u224	I'll answer the question that's been asked. I didn't go into a broader picture of risk. All forms of extremism that are undermining are of course worrying whether they are left, right, upper, red, yellow or green. From the point of view of security, security, the rule of law and our democracy, we must be able to act when appropriate and when appropriate within the standards of the law. Then I will go on to everything that is institutional and to the conference on the future of Europe. Mr Van Dijk asked whether we would acknowledge that the decision-making process is viscous and opaque. How does the government intend to improve that? Mr Van Dijk also asked for an update on the implementation of the Leijten/Omtzigt motion on the publication of draft conclusions of the European Council. As Mr Van Dijk knows, the Netherlands has been working for years to promote transparency in EU decision-making. This does not mean that we have been able to achieve maximum results with our maximum commitment so far. We have to be honest about that, too. But the group of equals for transparency has been extended to ten Member States, and that is a step forward. The July 2020 agreement has improved the transparency of legislative procedures and trilogues. The introduction of the Transparency Register provides a framework for transparency and ethical interactions, as it is called, between European institutions and interest representatives. Transparency in the Joint Declaration on the Conference on the Future of Europe is also enshrined as one of the basic principles of the Conference. I am now doing the rounds on behalf of the Netherlands with other European Foreign Ministers to ensure that they also sign our pledge, so to speak, together with Denmark, so that we can get political movement behind it. But, of course, we are committed to the application of classification rules on the limité guidelines. These are limited guidelines, I say to Mrs van der Plas, unless 'limité' is a family name and a person is indicated. But I don't think that's true. This will enable the Council documents to be made public more quickly and proactively. Rapid creation and implementation of an interinstitutional legislative database, the one-stop-shop IT-shop, is also part of this. Well, I think everyone knows that. Transparency is also a horizontal issue on the conference agenda. The update of the Leijten/Omtzigt motion. The draft conclusions of the European Council cannot yet be made public by the Cabinet. The documents requested therefore bear the limitation mark. Since 2013, the members of the First and Second Chambers have access to these documents through the digital entrance of the delegates of the Council. There is simply no majority in favour, but the ambition remains unchanged. But we're not there yet in terms of support we need. Then there was another question from Mr Van Dijk. I see that Mr Van Dijk is standing for that! From the report of the... I'm going to go to English anyway, and I'm looking for the translation. But maybe I should look at Mrs. Van der Plas, too. From the Corporate Europe Observatory, the European private sector observatory, I think, shows that three quarters of the conversations were with the business community. Where is the balance sheet, Mr Van Dijk rightly asks. We have talked about transparency and the importance of trust and support for the European Union and the decision-making process, which should not only be reborn, but also strengthened. We take all these steps. Mr Van Dijk's list shows that these discussions took place with many representatives of industry. To be honest, we want to have a complete picture of all the contacts between the Dutch representation at the EU and representatives of interests. We also want to see if this image is complete. I can't just tell from one number whether it's out of balance, but it's a lot. I would like to come back to this at another time, for example when we have a better analysis. So I'm not going to get back to you after this. I would like to come back to it later, because it is important and, of course, it also lives in society, because people often think that only stakeholders have access. That's part of their job, but it's about balance and everyone needs to know who's talking to who. For example, we in the Netherlands are also transparent about our agendas, etc. Mr Van Dijk asked about democratic control. I do not know whether I am quoting your question literally, but the debate in the European Parliament is difficult. You mentioned, I believe, the decision-making'schimmy'. How does the government feel about the President of the Commission and the President of the European Council, who do not give each other the light? That is the end of Mr Van Dijk's paraphrasing, for the record. Ultimately, it is about increasing the democratic legitimacy of decision-making, and that is what we really attach to it. The cabinet letter of 18 December 2020 in response to the Utrecht University report on the state of law and the institutions of the European Union gives some insight. Decision-making can always be improved. The various fora are called upon to do so, but we continue to strive for transparency, including in relation to EU decision-making procedures. We also have no opinion on the personal contacts between the different directors at that level. Mr Amhaouch asked about the Dutch-Spanish non-paper. That is a product of the talks between Prime Minister Rutte and Prime Minister Sanchez. There is an enthusiastic response to that. There are a number of elements in it that are interesting. We're trying to get a lot more people into this. It contains many elements, and it is also a healthy sign within Europe that the Netherlands and Spain, after all the sensitivities surrounding the Restoration and Resilience Fund, are gathering thanks to Mr Van der Lee on strategic autonomy and other critical strategic issues. Mr Dassen van Volt asked if we could invite other ministers and Commissioners to Parliament's second debate so that the quality of the debate would be improved, I read from that. Could Members of the European Parliament be invited to the European Summit? Is that gonna be okay? The cabinet is about its own invitation policy. Of course, ministers of this cabinet often discuss European issues with all committees. The President of the European Parliament knows that all Members of the European Parliament know better than I am at any European summit, and the President-in-Office Jean Michel and the rotating Presidency do so in reverse with the European Parliament. There is therefore an intensive dialogue. Another question is, of course, whether you would like to invite Commissioners to your Chamber. I leave that entirely to the chairman, for another moment, a more appropriate moment. Maybe I'm a Member of Parliament, then I'll express an opinion on that. Then we have a question from Mr Azmani on the European Conference. Fortunately, it's a little better than Mr. Azmani's impression. He referred to an update of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, a report of 2018. As a cabinet, we have put out an offer to a number of organisations to help organise the national citizen consultations and the associated communication. Soon it will be known which external organisation will be commissioned, digitally and where possible physically. When you see how well things are going with the relaxations, we hope that in this period much more can happen physically. It is also really about inclusive, representative and many moments of citizen dialogue. I have also asked for a great deal of attention to be paid to former directors, representatives of all parties, private sector, civil society. There really must be as many advice, ideas and opinions as possible across all generations. Otherwise it will be too thin, and that is not our commitment, nor is it the intention of this conference. Mr. Chairman. I see your gestures. I don't know if you mean I need to talk any faster, but I don't think I can physically do that anymore...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u225	No, it was just an encouraging gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u226	... between the translation, the family name and the political party I'm going to make a different mistake. There was a question from Mr Amhaouch. How can we strengthen the position of the Netherlands as a techhub in Europe? Fortunately, we are still at the European summit in the area of digitalisation. This is also evident from the many indexes that have been created. We score high, but of course we can still do much better. That is how I know Mr Amhaouch: that is also his commitment. Digitisation is a key element in our economy, and also in order to achieve it within Europe. I call the smart industry, artificial intelligence, cooperation between knowledge institutions, companies and governments. The announced European digital innovation clusters or hubs really come from the Dutch approach. Together with the Minister for Economic Affairs and others, we want to ensure that the Netherlands can continue to play a good role in this. I also know that this is high on the agenda in the election programmes of a number of parties as a separate focus from the earnability and knowledge origins of the Netherlands. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether we should not invest anymore in our own technicalities. I think you already know from my previous answer that we really need to go in that direction. Creating self-defeating is of course not an end in itself, but it can be a very nice outcome of policy, of investment and of creating a level playing field. You have to want to invest in the right infrastructure, in education and also in science, so you get the basics in order. I mentioned the importance of Horizon Europe earlier. The budget for this is important, but also its own funding if you look at the Lisbon standard for investing in science. Mr Dassen asked about the digitals. Why can't we get the tech-scrapers to pay a fair contribution? Techreuzes have a tax advantage under the current tax systems, because they are of course aimed at a physical economy and still insufficient on the digital economy. The G20 has taken good steps here and has asked the OECD to come up with changes to ensure that revenues from the digital economy can be effectively taxed. This is an example of a global problem for many countries, and this calls for global agreements. In mid 2021, so quickly, we expect an agreement from the G20. We will then urge the Commission to follow up on this. Mrs Jongerius, PvdA, asked about the income tax. She asked whether we support the G7 agreement on profit taxation, whether we want to go for a European average and what is the lower limit. Mr Vijlbrief, Secretary of State for Finance, has just sent a letter on this matter to the Dutch Parliament. We really argue for a firm minimum rate. As far as we are concerned, an effective minimum rate of 15%, which was agreed by the G7, is a good starting point, but we cannot yet pin ourselves on a percentage above that. If we say 15% is beautiful, I don't see how we should be under there. Certainly not. Moreover, this is already indicated by the G7 as a lower limit. This has to be discussed further. What are his proposals on tax avoidance, Mrs Simons from BET1 asked. We are of course an open economy, but many steps have been taken, including by this cabinet, to counter tax avoidance. I don't just have to refer to closing the mailbox companies. Many measures have been taken, not only by the predecessor of Mr Vijlbrief, Menno Snel, but also by Secretary of State Vijlbrief himself. The downside of an internationally oriented tax system is that sometimes we remain unintentionally attractive to tax avoidance structures. All measures are important in this, but we must also continue to address it at European level. We are also working to increase transparency and integrity. Mr Bishop of the SGP asked how the cabinet indicated the G7 announcement on large-scale infrastructure investments. I have also read with interest about the infrastructure fund, particularly for developing countries. It is actually a leverage effect, by using the investments already planned by governments to mobilise the private sector, banks and investors to go further. We do not know the details yet, but we will certainly follow this with interest. I would like to come back to this when I can better point that out on the basis of the facts and the direction chosen. It sounds good. When I look at the Dutch climate action internationally, we already apply this from the international climate investment that this cabinet makes. This brings us to 1 billion climate investment: 500 million official development cooperation and 500 million from the private sector. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about market access and its protection for companies with state aid. Of course, we attach great importance to a strong and independent competition policy and we also want to use the multilateral system to maintain a level playing field. We're really worried. It is also often discussed in various committee debates on the distorting effects on the internal market of state financing, state-funded companies, and how best to deal with it. We do that, of course, in the World Trade Organisation, but we also welcome the Commission's proposal on foreign subsidies. This is the result of a Dutch proposal, the so-called "equal playfield instrument" from 2019. For further details, I must refer Mr Sjoerdsma back to the BNC sheet you received on 11 June. There was another question from Mr Sjoerdsma about a sanction regime for companies that steal intellectual property and compete with state aid for our companies. Theft of intellectual property remains a serious problem. We have to deal with that. I don't know if sanctions are always the only or the right answer. Intellectual property is formally protected, of course. That includes business secrets. But we know the reality is that you can formally stand in your right, but you're not protecting it from that theft yet. Of course, we have the TRIPS agreement within the framework of the WTO. Countries are obliged to protect intellectual property. A lot of work is being done on this. On the contrary, we want to make sure that the EU is also working hard for this. Thanks to a Dutch effort, the Commission has also put forward a proposal to this effect. For example, there is the international purchasing instrument IPI and there are other instruments that can promote the jointness of this approach. But it's slow, and you'll only have one company where the intellectual data, the intellectual property, was stolen. Then, of course, this is too slow. Making fortune remains very relevant, but it has been negotiated. Mrs Teunissen asked whether European policy should be brought fully into line with the Paris Agreement. I believe that we are all pleased that the European Council has adopted ambitious climate objectives to comply with the Paris Agreement. Mrs Teunissen follows the facts like no other. The targets are ambitious, but they are also feasible. And the Commission's legislative proposals will come in July 2021. Then, of course, we must see whether the policy has been sufficiently aligned with the Paris Agreement. The Commission will also review the legislation on biomass. We already have a national policy on the use of biomass, and we want to ensure that these criteria are strengthened at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u227	It is good to hear that the Minister is committed to focusing more on biomass. Now we've heard some disturbing reports about Mr. Samsom. He wants to label biomass as renewable energy. At present you see all kinds of biomass plants all over Europe. If we continue with this classification of biomass as renewable energy, it would be at the expense of forests, biodiversity, not only in Europe but worldwide. We really need to stop that! So shouldn't the Minister now, at the moment, take a firmer stand against the use of woody biomass? Let's just stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u228	I have just said that we have a strict policy for this. We are trying to push the Commission in the right direction. But this is also a subject that the Minister and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs deal with on a daily basis. So I would like to check the state of play on their part. This doesn't run on the State Department line, but I'd like to check.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u229	Will you come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u230	I shall come back to it briefly in the second term. Mr Ruissen asked why nuclear energy could not be included in the European taxonomy of sustainability criteria for green investment. Then you can of course determine whether it is easier or more difficult, or what a sustainable investment is. We have always advocated a technology-neutral taxonomy in which economic activities are measured on the basis of scientific criteria. Nuclear energy does indeed produce CO-free electricity. A possible inclusion of nuclear energy in the list of approved sustainable investments can help achieve emission reduction targets that the European Union has set itself, especially when it comes to financing. New nuclear power plants are rather expensive. We're awaiting a technical advisory report. On the basis of that report, the Commission can decide whether nuclear energy will be brought under this taxonomy. And, of course, the cabinet must consider this first. It will also include the Chamber in this decision-making process. Mr Bishop asked a question about the carbon border adjustment mechanism. He says that this goes against the principle of subsidiarity. I believe that Mr Bishop asked: will the cabinet oppose this? As Mr Bishop knows, the mechanism itself is a new Commission legislative proposal presented in July 2021 to prevent carbon leakage, especially if you want to avoid the risk of companies leaving for third countries where climate legislation is less stringent, which means that pollution is simply moved from within the EU to outside the EU. We are, of course, looking for cooperation. Climate policy is cross-border; we have exchanged views on this before. European cooperation is particularly important here in order to achieve the objectives of Paris. We regard subsidiarity and proportionality as guiding principles in European legislation and regulation, and along these lines we will systematically assess new Commission proposals. We look forward to the proposal because of the possibilities it offers, but I cannot yet give it any further value assessment in substance. We will certainly come back to this, thanks also to Mr Bishop's vigilance. Mrs Teunissen then asked what is credible about the common agricultural policy, which is not in line with the Paris Agreement. As Mrs Theunissen knows, the European Commission has itself agreed CO-reduction targets to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. All sectors have a role to play in contributing to climate goals. The common agricultural policy can be an instrument for achieving these goals, but it has to do with how to set up that agricultural policy. The agricultural policy itself is taking place in the fight we must all fight against climate change as set out in the UN objectives and the Paris climate targets. There's a compromise proposal. At least 40% of the financial resources of the common agricultural policy should contribute to climate change objectives. If Mrs Teunissen wants additional information on the common agricultural policy, I will have to check with the Ministry of Agriculture for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u231	I'll take a look at Mrs Teunissen. The Minister will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u232	I think it's an ideological discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u233	Let me clarify one point: if 40% of the agricultural budget were to go towards sustainability, in my view, it would have been less than 25%, but perhaps you could come back to this again. That means that 60% will still go to intensive agriculture which will lead to economies of scale, intensification, more emissions and more land use. I was wondering to what extent that is in line with the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u234	It is, of course, a very fundamental discussion and I understand from the perspective of the Animal Party that you are very different from this cabinet or perhaps future Cabinets. However, the compromise proposal that has been negotiated between all the Member States and the Commission and which is still under discussion states that at least 40% of the financial resources of the common agricultural policy, which is rather high in terms of amount, should contribute to the climate objectives. Then, of course, one can also think of circular agriculture, emission reductions and the use of technology, just as we in the Netherlands are looking not only for the sustainability of agriculture, circular agriculture, but also for the reduction of CO emissions. Ideally, we're gonna get that down in an instant. There's a lot of choices and tracks in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u235	But it is still the 40%, the circular agriculture and all the other measures mentioned by the Minister. But I'm talking about what happens within that 60%. A large part of it simply goes to the bio-industry, to scale up and to increase CO emissions. I was wondering what her point of view was. Does she agree with me that this is at least not in line with the direction we should take, namely a climate-neutral society and meeting the 1.5 degree target?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u236	I believe that this cabinet has taken great steps with the adoption of the Climate Act and the Climate Agreement. However, we all know that far greater and more ambitious steps must be taken with regard to the global climate challenge and what it means for humans, animals and planets. We are, of course, looking at this at national level, and that also affects the common agricultural policy. But I have not followed the common agricultural policy in detail and cannot therefore have a firm opinion on it. I would like to consult my colleague, Mrs Schouten, because this is an area that she deals with every day and I do not want to trample on the compromise proposal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u237	Thank you. Then there is an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u238	Before there are any misunderstandings: in the case of subsidies under the common agricultural policy, zero cents go to intensive livestock farming. The Animal Party keeps saying that this money goes to the bio-industry, but the subsidies from the CAP are ground-based subsidies. It's an acre payment. An intensive pig farmer or an intensive poultry farmer is not ground-bound, so they do not receive these subsidies. Grants that are given are for sustainability. That's just to get those emissions back down. So I would like to put an end to the frame that the bio-industry is heavily subsidised by Brussels, because that is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u239	I don't think I have to respond to this. It's probably addressed to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u240	It was more addressed to the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u241	It was an enlightening comment towards Mrs Teunissen. Then there was another question from Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. Let me paraphrase this: is the cabinet prepared to pass on climate hysteria and instruct the Commission that the EU will use our farmers and growers to feed the world? I think we all know that Dutch agriculture is leading, given its knowledge and innovation. I myself led a lot of trade missions in which companies from the horticulture sector also went along. For example, seed production is a very nice classic sector. I agree that we all know that the farmer must also be able to earn a fair living, but all sectors in the Netherlands and abroad have a role and a mission in combating climate change, climate mitigation and adaptation. The Commission's Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy is precisely intended to promote this transition to a sustainable European food system. This should take into account societal challenges, including those faced by farmers themselves and the burdens they have to bear, as well as the consequences of climate change and food security. There are many examples. The cabinet supports this strategy of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u242	I have two more interruptions, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u243	No, one, this is your last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u244	I'm just worried about the rapid disappearance of our farmers and gardeners. We had a round table with family businesses yesterday. There were not only people who understand agricultural holdings, but also people who understand them in general. Those people have also said that they are concerned about that. Because with the disappearance of farmers and gardeners, through all kinds of measures, knowledge also disappears. We have a great deal of knowledge in the Netherlands. We have Wageningen University. We have agricultural colleges. If you don't have those farmers and gardeners, you don't have that knowledge anymore. And we can use that knowledge again in other countries. So that was actually my question to the Minister. I would also like to make it clear that all these measures and all those measures that are still going to be taken will increase costs and that farmers in the Netherlands will not make it if they do not increase their yield price. My question was more: do you want to make it clear to the European Commission that it is not just about nature and ecology? It is also about whether these farmers can survive and whether we will have them later. This is very important, especially in view of food security and the task that we have in it. So my appeal to the Minister is: just make that clear all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u245	I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u246	The right to exist must remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u247	I do not believe that the European Commission or anyone else is questioning farmers' right to exist. There is a vision for the future. Part of this is indeed a fair sandwich, a fair price paid, bet on circular land hovel and combating climate change. Integrality is very important, but I hear Mrs van der Plas' appeal. Then there are a few final questions, Madam President. Mr Van Dijk spoke about Frontex and the worrying reports that it is guilty of pushing back potential refugees and migrants. His question was: does the government share that this is contrary to everything the EU stands for? They are indeed very disturbing messages. Basically, border surveillance by Member States and support to Frontex are part of this, provided that it is carefully implemented, in accordance with the mandate and legal frameworks. That's what we're gonna keep emphasising. But the Commission and Frontex themselves must seriously examine these reports and take steps if abuses have occurred. We need to know what's right, what they're going to do and where the responsibility lies. A working party has been set up to investigate the incidents. In 12 incidents there was no involvement of Frontex itself, but one incident is still open. Having said this, we know that there are a lot of other times when it happens. Maybe it's not Frontex, but I'm focusing on Frontex right now. In several meetings in the context of Frontex, we have indicated that we attach real importance to the follow-up of the recommendations and want to see a different approach. We are awaiting the investigation office OLAF, the EU-Ombudsman and the European Parliament. Secretary of State Broekers-Knol follows this issue, again with Frontex. Frontex also cooperates with Libya and people are sent back to Libya, where it is dangerous, says Mr Van Dijk. He's asking me to take my chance and settle this. As early as 2018, when I was in Libya, I made that call and had talks with UNHCR, but also with the Libyan government back then, to ensure that people who have been returned are not held in detention anyway. We also fund the accelerated return via IOM/UNHCR of migrants and other refugees from Libya, so that they can return to the countries of origin as soon as possible. UNHCR is supported by the Netherlands and many other similar countries in cooperation with the Libyan authorities to put an end to detention centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u248	Just one thing: there is also evidence that Frontex is working with the Libyan Coast Guard and that migrants are being sent back to Libya. This is clearly contrary to the principle of non-refoulement, as you know. Are you going to make an effort to fight that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u249	I will certainly be committed to ensuring that international law is properly respected, so that Frontex complies with the agreements, as we expect; no less and no more. Then there was a final question from Mr Bishop: are we finally going to put an end to the long promised migration deals with African countries? I do not know exactly what Mr Bishop meant, because I believe that one of the problems is that we have not yet been able to make such good migration agreements with many countries. At the last JHA Council and the Foreign Affairs Council, Member States agreed that we really need to work on broad partnerships and promote intensive cooperation with key countries of origin, transit and reception. This involves improving cooperation on return and dealing with trafficking in human beings and smuggling, strengthening orderly migration management, supporting reception countries, asylum seekers and refugees in need and promoting legal migration routes. Of course, we talk about it a lot. These migration deals as an option are part of the Migration Pact. This will also be discussed at the next European Council on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u250	There is a question from Mrs Jongerius of the European Parliament, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u251	I was actually more interested in the fact that Mrs Kaag said that this was the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u252	No, not yet. I haven't forgotten your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u253	Then I give the floor to Mr Bishop SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u254	This explanation is clear. I really like the fact that these things are just being named concretely. Only, what is the deadline for that? These are things that have been mentioned for many years and are on the agenda, but which, as it were, every time it is not the right metaphor in the direction of the south.................................................................................................................................................................................... It's not gonna work. It just doesn't help to come to clear agreements. How firm is that plan? And what period should we think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u255	I can't name the term. That would also be unwise, because Mr Bishop himself has indicated how long it has lasted. I understand the impatience, but at the same time I think we need to be realistic. Appointments and partnership agreements are made with a number of countries, but they want or do not want or are very little, or are not interested in the conditions set by the European Union. And, of course, these are also the important conversations that we need to have and the questions that we need to ask ourselves: what is the package that is going to work, what is going to go with it, and what tough demands can we make against it? That's what's being talked about all the time. I would just like to check with the officials whether there are any data available through the JHA Council to measure something. But in the end, we want to reach agreements. Madam President. Then there was a final question from Mrs Jongerius. Mr Roemer's recommendations have been controversial. Why not just get started today, she asks, for example with the Basic Registration Persons Act. I have to clarify that the Court itself has declared this controversial. Correct me if you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u256	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u257	Apparently, the Roemer report has not been declared controversial. The recommendations for a legislative amendment or an additional budget that is needed are for a new cabinet. However, preparations are being made, and where possible the recommendations are being implemented. There are examples in the area of strengthening supervision, enforcement and registration of migrant workers. Since January this year, email addresses and telephone numbers of non-residents, including many migrant workers, have been registered on the basis of the GDPR. The SZW inspection may establish direct contact with the migrant workers if there is a suspicion of a misunderstanding. On 7 July this Chamber will discuss the report and labour migrants with the Minister for Social Affairs. And there is a written consultation on the registration of migrant workers with the Secretary of State for the Interior. But I very much understand what Mrs Jongerius is saying, especially in view of the terrible abuses we see and what we hear about. They don't fit in a civilized country like the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u258	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for her first-term input. I believe that there is a need for a second deadline for possible questions. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Kamminga of the VVD. I've seen you, Mr. Rose of JA21. Perhaps you could ask your question or comment in the second term. Mrs. Kamminga from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I believe that we have already discussed a number of these issues in detail in the last week. Minister Kaag said so. Thank you again for the answers, because they gave us a good view of where we stand and how we proceed. As I said before, I think this is appropriate for this debate. I am glad that we have had a little more time to consider the internal market: how do we do that and what else can we do there? I have heard the words "open strategic economy" well. This concerns, in particular, the expression 'open'. That is, of course, something I wholeheartedly support. For it should not be the case that we ourselves or an individual Member State are going back to protectionism. I do not make any motions myself, but I do support a number of motions. I will not go into that now. I am, of course, very curious about the timetable of the Court of Justice. I would like to look at the Prime Minister, because perhaps that will surprise me and then I will go home cheerfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u260	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this debate has been a relief compared to the last few years. Perhaps more interruptions would have done the debate well, but I also have to say that, in my opinion, the great gain was full recognition, at least from the centre-left in this Chamber to the centre-right, of how important and necessary it is that we have a strong European Union, and how important it is that we tackle the concrete rot in the European Union. And that is actually more than just a positive change of tone. This is also a very substantial, important change, which I see in the Chamber and the Cabinet. In addition, I have three motions, Madam President, which I am going to read quite quickly for the sake of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Union is pursuing strategic autonomy;]] [[noting that the corona crisis has demonstrated how uncertain the supply of goods may be in times of crisis;]] [[whereas it is in the European interest to create some independence, including by producing a number of essential things in the European Union itself;]] [[Calls on the Government to invite the European Commission to draw up a list of the risks related to the security of supply of essential goods and to propose how these risks can be addressed, including the option of producing or storing them on the European continent in order to ensure our security and independence;]] [[calls on the government to bring this issue up to date in the Councils responsible for it, and to agree with the Member States on how solutions for the security of supply of these goods in Europe can be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Kamminga, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Piri and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u262	My second motion, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a minimum profit tax rate is an effective way of preventing internationally operating companies from reducing their tax burden by tax avoidance;]] [[noting that the G7 supports the OECD's plans for a minimum profit tax rate;]] [[Whereas the agreements have all been transposed into effective European directives;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that the OECD minimum rate agreements are transposed into an EU Directive as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u263	And finally, the third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas unanimous decision-making has regularly made rapid and effective action by the Union difficult on the world stage;]] [[This tends to weaken the strategic autonomy pursued by the European Union and the Cabinet;]] [[Whereas several Member States, including France, Germany, Belgium and Spain have already indicated that the European Union needs a stronger foreign policy (non-existent military missions) based on qualified majority voting in order to be able to operate more quickly and effectively;]] [[calls on the cabinet to form the broadest possible coalition in order to set up the lifting of unanimity for European foreign policy by 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Kamminga, Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Amhaouch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u264	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the cabinet already added civilian missions to the areas in which the Netherlands would like to veto, and today Minister Kaag says that "everything" calls for a European response. I find it worrying that we are moving forward towards more European Union. I would like to ask the question once again, very concretely, and this time to the Prime Minister, which is actually the red lines of the cabinet if there are any. And then two more motions. They need no further explanation from me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Union is continuing to develop towards a European superstate;]] [[whereas it is in the Dutch interest to be able to determine its own future independently and sovereign;]] [[invites the cabinet to announce a Dutch departure from the European Union, a nextit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u266	Then move two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we are being messed up a European superstate;]] [[calls on the government not to go further towards political union as long as the Netherlands is still a member of the European Union and to use it to preserve and restore our national competences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u267	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u268	Mr. Chairman. For me today was the first time we discussed the State of the Union with our fellow chamber members and Dutch MEPs. I also look forward to the next moment, because I liked it, although of course we always look at the clock with a slanted eye in connection with the Orange feeling for tonight. Oh, Mr. Jasper van Dijk absolutely not, I hear! Mr. Chairman. The CDA has a positive attitude towards the European Union. We see the European Union as a community of values, but also as an economically important carrier. The Netherlands should certainly not be naive in this and, where necessary, show its teeth when other countries or superpowers try to take a walk with Europe. We still have concerns about security policy. I have a motion for a resolution on that, too. We asked about that European Security Council. The Minister is very critical of that. Yet we do not want to stand still and think through it. Returning to another point, the Netherlands is still the technology hub of Northern Europe. The Minister gave us the answer that we already do a lot. The same answer was also heard this morning from the Minister and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs in the committee debate on business policy and innovation. We have seen Commissioner Breton come to the Brainport region and be amazed at what is happening in that region. He said he wants to pull the wallet and pull out billions for it. That region has a key position in the global ecosystem by the chip industry. That is, of course, also the future earning power of the Netherlands. I ask the sincere question, both to the Prime Minister and to the Minister: how are we going to scale up this region? We know we need that region, but when I talk in this house about scaling up that region, I deal with the Ministry of Economic Affairs one time, the other time with the Ministry of IenW about accessibility and then with the Ministry of Home Affairs about housing. Hundreds of people are recruited there every month, including in the corona crisis. So how are we gonna do that? Mr President, please allow me to read out the motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that world power relations are shifting, leading to increasing instability;]] [[Whereas these new global relationships will require Europe to determine its position on its own initiative more often than before as a global player in order to protect the European way of life and our security and prosperity;]] [[Considering that the AIV advises the government to commit itself to the advent of a European Security Council because the EU is not in a position to quickly direct security issues;]] [[Whereas the United Kingdom is inextricably linked to the continental security agenda;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, before the end of the year, which governance structure, what role and powers a European Security Council should have, to make recommendations to the Chamber, taking the role and commitment with the British,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u269	Thank you for the extra seconds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u270	Yeah, we try to do a little customization sometimes. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u271	Mr President, I cannot speak as quickly as Mr Amhaouch. He just definitely broke a record. Mr. Chairman. Two points. First of all, I think that the Minister's statement 'all calls for a European response' was a slipper. I'm really wondering if that's a cabinet position. So I ask the Prime Minister to confirm that. Indeed, matters such as housing, pensions, education are truly national competences. Oh, I understand from box K that we need to read the minutes. We will. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another point that I found very positive. The Minister indicated that she agreed with me that there should be a balance in the discussions that the Permanent Representation is holding. I thought that was very good of her, so I have a motion to support that position. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research has shown that three quarters of our Permanent Representation's discussions with industry have taken place;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the Permanent Representation to balance the talks with the public and private lobby,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And also on my behalf thanks to the messengers, because without them we would not be able to do this work tonight. Mr. Chairman. Also, of course, thanks to the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister for this evening's debate. As I said, I liked to see the former colleagues of the European Parliament again at the end of the day, all of them! I also really hope that next year we can have a full debate with each other. Then they should simply have the same rights here in the Chamber, at least when it comes to the questioning of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But I'm sure we'll get back to that. I have three motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the abuses surrounding migrant workers are increasing and thus increasing the urgency to deal with these problems quickly;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare and implement the separation of employment and bed as soon as possible for migrant workers;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Simons, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u273	Motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that US President Biden wants to temporarily release the patents on corona vaccines;]] [[calls on the Government to publicly support this position and to work at EU level to stop the European opposition to temporary suspension of patents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Simons and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u274	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the G7 has reached agreement on a common minimum rate of 15% for profit tax;]] [[noting that the proposal will shortly be before the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to raise the minimum rate to at least 21%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And also thanks to the rulers for the answer. I too hope that next year it will be a full debate for all the participants, but we will discuss it at another time. I'm going to file a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rule of law is under great pressure in several European countries;]] [[Considering that the Multiannual Financial Framework has entered into force jointly with the Regulation on a general conditionality regime for the protection of the Union budget from 1 January 2021;]] [[Whereas Member States' recovery plans will be assessed by the Commission in the coming weeks and the Council will approve the assessment of the recovery and resilience plans by means of an implementing decision based on a proposal from the Commission;]] [[whereas the Hungarian Government recently submitted a recovery plan risking the use of EU Restoration Fund funds to increase government control over Hungarian universities through State aid and thereby restrict academic freedom;]] [[considers that the government should continue its efforts to ensure an effective link between the receipt of EU funds and respect for the rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to co-evaluate the recovery plans of EU countries on their compatibility with constitutional and democratic principles;]] [[calls on the Government also to object in the Council to implementing decisions on recovery plans contrary to these fundamental European values,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri and Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u276	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his enthusiasm for the Green Industrial Policy. In fact, I agree with Mr Amhaouch's plea. We need to roll out brainport thinking, wider in the Netherlands and in Europe. There is really enough gas infrastructure; we do not need Nord Stream 2 to supply Europe with gas until the transition. It's really not a commercial project. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u277	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u278	Thank you, Mr President. I do feel the need to respond to the interruption of Mrs van der Plas, who was indirectly directed to me, to the Animal Party. Indeed, agricultural subsidies hardly go to the pig and chicken industry, but to the dairy industry and animal feed producers, who are also responsible for high emissions, and to income support for the current livestock sector. The claim that the bio-industry is not subsidised by the EU is therefore incorrect. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EU policies in all areas must meet the objectives set out in the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) covers one third of the EU budget and is therefore an important steering tool;]] [[noting that the current proposal for the reform of the CAP does not contain concrete, binding objectives for the protection of climate and biodiversity and does not significantly affect agricultural pollutants;]] [[calls on the government not to accept a proposal for a new CAP as long as it is not in line with the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u279	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the switch from coal to biomass does not produce any real CO gain due to the fact that the addition of woody biomass results in higher CO emissions;]] [[noting that the cabinet has embraced real CO profits in the Climate Agreement and in response to the ESC's opinion;]] [[noting that, with the Van Raan/Leijten motion adopted, the Chamber asked the Cabinet to measure actual emissions from biomass;]] [[noting that the European Union still does not count on actual emissions from woody biomass and considers them to be administratively zero;]] [[calls on the government in Europe to consider the actual emissions from wooded biomass in the revision of RED II,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Teunissen and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u281	Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u282	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank all the Members of the European Parliament for being here today. It is particularly important to be able to conduct the debate on the State of the European Union in this way. I am indeed looking forward to next year when it will be a real debate with all of you. In addition, Mr Amhaouch indeed had a nice speech about Brainport Eindhoven, my hometown. Today, of course, there has been a lot of talk about the rule of law. That's why I'm filing the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Ihbti+ rights are human rights;]] [[whereas the law adopted by the Hungarian Parliament on Monday 14 June last violates the rights of lhbti+s and thereby human rights;]] [[whereas this law violates the rule of law and runs counter to the values of the European Union;]] [[Considering that on 3 March 2021 the European Parliament designated the EU as the Lhbti+ area of freedom;]] [[expresses its opposition to the dismantling of the democratic rule of law and the violation of fundamental human rights in Hungary, and calls on the Government to contribute to the condemnation of this violation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dassen, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Simons, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kamminga, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Kuzu and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u283	The next motion, thanks to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should be a pioneer in the area of freedom of the press and could, moreover, be the first European Member State to offer emergency visas to journalists and other independent media and reporters and their relatives in danger of life;]] [[Whereas the procedure for issuing emergency visas and providing temporary accommodation in EU countries should be facilitated for all journalists in life-threatening situations;]] [[noting that the already existing Shelter Cities are not intended for the target group in acute danger;]] [[noting that the Hague Commitment to increase the Safety of Journalists (i.e. the Hague commitment to increase the security of journalists) was initiated by the Netherlands on 9 December 2020 and signed by 58 countries, including calls for urgent action at political level to put in place effective measures to prevent and protect journalists, as well as effective measures at national level;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of how the issuing of emergency visas and the granting of temporary accommodation in the Netherlands can be facilitated for journalists and other independent media and reporters and their relatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u284	Madam President, thank you very much. First of all, thanks to the two directors for answering the questions. They don't hear that kind of thanks either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u285	I would like to ask the rulers whether they really want to listen to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u286	Apparently, the moment I take the floor is the right time to talk to each other for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u287	I think it's a coincidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u288	Sorry to bother you guys about that. I had just thanked you very much for answering the questions. Yeah, the Prime Minister's gonna want to hear that one more time, huh? But I mean it; I think that has happened correctly. Sometimes I have some reservations about the answers, but I very much appreciate the fact that they are being used in this way. I also thank our guests for their presence in our midst and for letting us share in their wisdoms. That is also highly appreciated. I think this is a wonderful form: once a year Members of the European Parliament are here to welcome us. We'll keep it that way, as far as I'm concerned. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that due to the COVID-19 crisis and the COVID-19 recovery fund, public debt is rising rapidly;]] [[Whereas this underlines the importance of sustainable public finances and Member States' own responsibility for this;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up proposals and identify options for reducing debts of EU Member States, not debt-sharing, but States' own responsibility for sustainable public finances, and to inform the Court thereof;]] [[calls on the government also to take the lead within the EU in reducing Member States' sovereign debt in a responsible manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u289	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u290	Then I give the floor to Mr Ruissen of the European Parliament, SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u291	Mr President, thank you again for the warm welcome. It is good to hear that next year we are also welcome to life and well-being. I hope, of course, that I will take part in this important debate again, should I have the opportunity. I do not have any motions, but you will not be surprised, because I have no right at all. I have three more reflections, if you don't mind. I would like to join Mrs van der Plas' plea for clear language. I heard the Prime Minister say about China: "Yes, China: sometimes it is a system rival." In this policy bubble, we understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u292	What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u293	I'll explain that to you. The public does not understand this. Why don't you just say specifically what's wrong? That Uighurs are locked up massively. That Christians are being persecuted massively. That there is no democracy. Why this covert language? Why not just name the issue and say it's unacceptable? That's my first reflection. My second concerns nuclear energy. I think the Minister's reaction is very hesitant and waiting. There'll be another report and we'll discuss it. When I hear it like this, I think it is urgent that there should be a cabinet as soon as possible, with a very ambitious paragraph on nuclear energy. I'd like to call you to that. Then there is my final point. I've drawn attention to freedom of faith. I have drawn attention to the fact that it is under serious pressure in a number of Member States. I also put that question to the European Commission. Then it stayed quiet. I did not get a response from the Commission. I have also raised it here today in the hope that there will be a reflection on it. That hasn't happened yet. There may be another reflection on it. I believe that we in the EU should also keep each other on freedom of faith, on the possibility of expressing your faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u294	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to our guests who have had a very long sitting here today. If I'm a little quick, they might still be in time for football. I'm going to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for the answers. I just wanted to say a few words about what Minister Kaag said about the language. I understand this is difficult. Then I thought, if D66 is willing to give one seat to BBB, I'll have a little more time and I can help you translate professional jargon into ordinary human language. I'll give your party that consideration. That can be arranged for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u296	It is the Foreign Minister who is here today, but at least it raises questions with the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u297	Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u298	I have bad news: we are not. If you're willing to do it pro bono, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u299	Can someone translate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u300	Pro bono, pro BBBono. Pro bono, free and for nothing we call it. Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u301	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u302	The Prime Minister was a little vague about nuclear power. I remember him saying in the campaign that there should be nuclear power stations in Groningen. He got all over Groningen then, so I can see why he's a little less pronounced here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u304	I also have two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u305	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u306	Oh, really. I thought: it's a tough debate, I want to be airy as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u307	I'd like to grant you one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u308	Good. Then I'm gonna save the other one for a two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u309	Then you'll have to choose quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u310	I have to make a quick choice. I choose Sieneke, said Father Abraham. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the total ban on pulse fishing as issued by the European Parliament starts on 1 July;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament ('),]] [[Whereas pulse fishing:]] [[prevent the sea floor from being turned around;]] [[reduce by-catches;]] [[reduces fuel consumption and thus improves climate;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine the possibilities of allowing pulse fishing in its own exclusive economic zone and, in parallel, to immediately engage at European level to enable pulse fishing to return;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35663-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u311	Thank you so much for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u312	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to answer a single question and give their appreciation to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u313	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u314	First of all, to Mr Bishop: excuse. You said something about the cabinet and our first-term response, for which I thank you very much. It wasn't on purpose, not conscious, twice. Then a few questions. Mrs. Kamminga, that's all gonna take longer than you'd like. It is now accelerating, but accelerating means that it can still be at the end of this year and even, at worst, at the beginning of next year. Then you won't know for sure before it's done. The hearing is now scheduled for early October. The verdict will then be at the end of this year or early next year. We join, together with a number of similar Member States, in this Court case on the side of the European Parliament and the Council. Then there is the rule of law. It is true what I said, namely that the conclusion on the rule of law, adopted by the European Council, does not change the content and objectives of the rule of law regulation, as it has been in force since 1 January 2021. So here the law goes above all fine explanatory texts of the European Council. The Council conclusions are not legally binding. The text of the regulation is. The motion in part No. 13 I'll leave judgment room. In the new Industry Strategy, the Commission has already launched an analysis of specific strategic sectors. We will now ask the Commission for an additional analysis of the risks related to the security of supply of essential goods. The motion in part No. 13 gets judgment, Chamber. The motion in part No. 16 and the motion in part No. 17, referring to the debate, I must, unfortunately, advise against it. I'd like to ask for the motion in part No. 20, because it has nothing to do with the European Union, at least not with this debate. I have no idea what to think of this. If it is put to the vote now, then I must discourage her from being safe. Otherwise, you would have to re-table her with the relevant...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u315	I'll take a look at Mrs. Piri. Are you going to arrest her? Yeah, the motion to part No. 20 is under arrest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u316	At the request of Mrs Piri, I propose her motion (35663, No. 20). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u317	Great. Then the motion to part No. 21. I would like to say a few words about that first. Mrs Piri had asked a question about this: what is the situation with regard to the suspension of patents in the European Union? The President of the TRIPS Council concluded in the Council of 8 and 9 June that all proposals were on the table. So we are talking about this Council, where the EU presented the communication on urgent policy responses to the COVID-19 crisis, i.e. urgent substantive responses to the corona crisis, to the WTO members, as an alternative to the TRIPs Waiver, which is what we are talking about from India and South Africa. This EU proposal has broad support from EU Member States. In the area of intellectual property rights, i.e. property rights, the proposal aims to simplify the use of compulsory licences and not a waver. India and South Africa also recently presented an adapted version of the waver, which contains little compromise in substance. Once again, the President-in-Office of the Council concluded in that Council of 8 and 9 June that all the proposals were on the table, including the EU proposal. The Communication also refers to other initiatives where the WTO, together with the WHO and other organisations, can contribute to the fight against the pandemic, including, of course, the COVAX Manufacturing Task Force, i.e. the COVAX production... targeted club, which aims to facilitate in the short term the free movement of raw materials, vaccine components and skilled workforces, trained people. In other words, in view of all this, I have to make the motion in part No. 21, because, as far as we are concerned, it is too one-sided. I can tell Mrs Piri and the other signatories to the motion and the participants in the debate that the government will simply be very pragmatic about this. It is not, therefore, that we are opposed to this in all circumstances. We will always see what works best in what situation. By the way, the latest news we have received on this issue is that the United States, in the WTO framework, has now joined the EU proposal. The motion in part No. 23. This must be done within all existing frameworks. Since that's what I'm assuming, that judgment is Chamber. We were, of course, against the motion in part No. 26, but because of the broad signature, let's leave that judgment Chamber. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u318	The motion in part No. 26 is a speech-expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u319	Yes, but the motion asks the cabinet to co-condemn this violation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u320	So it's both. The motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u321	So it is a bit addressed to us as well. As I said, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will do so with the Benelux colleagues. I will do so myself at the European Council. In other words, I very much agree with the motion on item No. 26. Finally, the motion in part No. 28. I'm going to have to discourage that motion right now. By the way, I agree with the direction. There is nothing in it that you can disagree with, but we would like to wait for the report on scenarios for improving EMU. That's a report that comes from a CDA motion last September. In the autumn there will be a discussion on reform of the Growth and Stability Pact and then the Dutch contribution will come. I can therefore imagine Mr Bishop holding the motion until the beginning of the new political season, because then we will have more insight into that report and the discussions that are taking place than in Europe. There are no major objections in substance, but otherwise it becomes a bit "motherhood and apple pie," so a mother-and-apple pie-motion. So we'd rather wait until there's new developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u322	Let me look at Mr Bishop to see if he is prepared to hold on to his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u323	The line of thought makes sense. What is the deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u324	That report is coming this autumn, as is the debate on EMU. I can also imagine you pulling her back for a moment and returning her to that debate. I think we'll agree, because there's really nothing crazy in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u325	I think I'm gonna hang on to her now. I think that's the best way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u326	At the request of Mr Bishop, I propose his motion (35663, No. 28). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u327	Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We are going to clean up and then I will give the floor to the Foreign Minister to answer one more question and to give her appreciation. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u328	I have three more questions to answer. Mrs Teunissen once again asked if the cabinet would take a firmer stand against the use of woody biomass. It is well known that the Commission is calling for more renewable energy. Biomass is still part of this. However, the Netherlands wants to further strengthen the sustainability criteria for the use of energy across the EU. The Netherlands is at the forefront of this. I know that other committees have adopted motions for resolutions asking for biomass for energy to be stopped in the Netherlands. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, as Mrs Teunissen knows, is looking at this and working it out. Mr Bishop asked me if there was some kind of timeline and how long possible migration deals will wait. As I suspected, the reality is that it is not yet visible. However, we continue to work with EU focus regions to reach some more concrete agreements on migration, cooperation, North Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and the Western Balkans. Funds have also been made available in the new MFF. About 10% of the NDICI funds that are actually classic OS funds are reserved for engagement for neighbourhood and Sub-Saharan Africa. We want them to be used as strategically as possible, but there is no date, and that was what Mr Bishop asked for. Mr Dassen van Volt. Apparently, last year the cabinet already promised to look into the possibility of giving fellowships to Dutch students to study in the College of Europe, both in Bruges and Warsaw. The investigation has been delayed, including through the covid period. But it is being looked at and we are making an active effort to have scholarships available again for the academic year 2022-2023. The budget for this has already been set aside. Madam Speaker, I'm going to move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u329	I think there is one more question from Mr Roos of JA21 in the European Parliament. If it's all right, it's been explicitly brought to your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u330	Yeah, but I don't know if it's set. I was surprised because I didn't know where to place it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u331	He was set. Mr. Roos, perhaps you could ask your question through the microphone. Then it can be answered after the appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u332	It was indeed the last sentence of my speech. As an example, I mentioned the EU Climate Law, a treaty that lasts for 30 years. This is actually putting this Chamber out of play and also putting the voter's course to the ballot box out of play. I had asked how the cabinet views this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u333	I hear a deep sigh beside me. That reassures me. That does not reassure Mr Roos. Since this requires further consultation with several colleagues in the cabinet, I would suggest that a written response be given. That gives the right reflection that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u334	I think that would be a good solution, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u335	Then I'll move on to the motions. The motion in part No. 14: Judgment Chamber, in line with cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u336	Apparently, one more question from Mr Amhaouch remained. Mr Amhaouch, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u337	I had questioned the Prime Minister or the Foreign Minister about the Brainport, the comprehensive plan for that region. I have not yet heard an answer to that and I see that the Minister is now going to the motions. My question was: every ministry does a small piece. Put in an integral plan for that! The Commissioner is so enthusiastic about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u338	Correct. That's the question you asked. Perhaps that could also be answered in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u339	Well, I often exchange with Mr Amhaouch about Brainport and, of course, about the University of Twente and what in the cluster is all about science, business and start-ups. These are, of course, important priorities. In part, this will come back to a formation table, but I also understand the urgency. We can indeed put this back in writing in consultation with the Minister of EZK and others, because we all recognise the enormous importance and success that we need to celebrate, but we also need to continue to invest in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u340	Very briefly. The Prime Minister would return in the second term to my question about the rule of law and the interpretation used by the cabinet, whether it is the conclusions... I hear him from trade union K shouting that he gave that answer. Sorry, I missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u341	Then we'll have to clean up first. Maybe you could use the other microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u342	If that is the same point, I have replied that the conclusions of the European Council are subordinate to the text of the law. So the text of the law is valid and it is only the question of how the European Council thinks it should interpret it, but that does not have any legal effect on the legal text.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u343	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u344	Then I'm going back to the motion in part number. 14. Mr President, would you like me to read out the names of the signatories?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u345	That might help, just the first petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u346	Okay. The motion in part No. 14 of the members Sjoerdsma, Van Weyenberg, Amhaouch, Van der Lee and Piri: Judgement of Chamber. That motion is in line with cabinet policy. The Sjoerdsma c.s. motion in piece No. 15 calls for the establishment of a list of essential products that the EU itself must be able to produce. This motion we also give judgment Chamber. Sherdsma, Kamminga, Amhaouch, and Piri and Van der Lee. The motion in part No. 18. As I argued earlier in the debate, the cabinet is not in favour of this. That's also indicated. I advise against this motion by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Sjoerdsma. The motion in part No. 19 I can give judgment Chamber, but with the following explanation. Mr Jasper van Dijk is not here, but he asks the government to urge the Permanent Representation to balance the talks with the public and private lobby more. All diplomats and all diplomatic representations are there for everyone, as a question mark, as an advisory body, as a supervisor, for introduction. The Permanent Mission has taken on a kind of pilot, a kind of pilot project, in which it has kept track of all visitors in the context of transparency. But we can never ask them to keep people out of contact. So they already talk to everyone and proactively look up those contacts. If I explain the motion that way, I'll give her judgment Chamber. If it is given a restrictive intention, it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u347	Unfortunately, Mr Jasper van Dijk is no longer here, so we cannot bring that to his attention, but we will do so at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u348	Yeah, okay. The motion in part No. 22. We do not want to anticipate and we are already working for a derogation from the agreements made. It needs to be discussed at EU level as well. That's why I'm deceiving that motion. Then the motion to part No. 24. A lot of efforts are being made. We are still negotiating Fit for 55, but it is not realistic, as the thrust of this motion is, to vote against the whole of the common agricultural policy. On that basis, I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 25, by Mrs Teunissen and Mr Van Raan. Europe is following globally accepted calculation methods. They are also scientifically supported by the IPCC. We advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 27 of Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Lee, I give a ruling to the Chamber, stating that all this must of course be done within existing procedures and that a review will always be carried out on the basis of the existing frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u349	Let me look at Mr Dassen to see if he can agree with this interpretation. Yeah, he's nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u350	Then the last motion, the motion in part no. 29 by Mrs Van der Plas. Fisheries, of course, concerns a common EU policy. It is not possible to make own rules for national waters. Of course, the cabinet will continue to look for ways of enabling pulse fishing again, but I must advise against the thrust of this motion. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u351	Thank you. I'm gonna take another look at the motion in part number because of my confusion. 13. That is the motion of Sjoerdsma, Kamminga, Piri, Van der Lee and Amhaouch. What kind of appreciation did he have? Was that judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u352	Yeah, that was judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u353	Okay. There was some confusion with us for a while. Judgment Room? Then it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u354	I didn't get to it anymore, but I'd also like the motion 21501-20, no. 1691. It has now been co-signed by Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u355	The movement-Dassen c.s. (21501-20, No. 1691) has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Dassen, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri, Mr Kuzu and Mr Amhaouch. She's getting No. , was No. 1691 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u356	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, but certainly also our guests today, the Dutch MEPs. Very nice to have you here today, hopefully again next year! I thank the House of Representatives and the viewers at home. Vote on the motions tabled is next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u357	It's 1-0! For us!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-16.u358	And it's 1-0.
