ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u1	The next item is the debate on economic affairs and climate. A very warm welcome to the two leaders and a very warm welcome to all my colleagues. I'd be the first... no, before I do, I'd like to agree that we're going to try to do it with six interruptions in the first term. Six times one, Mr. Azarkan. Six questions. Mr Graus thinks so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u2	Many groups are here with two speakers. It's always a little tricky when it's six. Isn't it possible that we can just do four in two and then we can choose for ourselves, so we get two more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u3	You'll make it eight. How you divide that further is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u4	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u5	Let's do this. It doesn't have to be eight, does it, so it doesn't have to be. I see Mrs Leijten standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u6	Mr President, on a point of order. When we started the internal affairs budget procedure, we had a day before that we had important documents. Now it's even the morning before we get important pieces. I can't imagine they couldn't have been sent sooner. I think it really is a big, big problem that we are getting documents so late that are important for budgetary treatment. We got them around 9:30 this morning. Now let's start the debate. I would like to ask you, Mr President, that last time it was not officially included with the government, because the government is sitting here to take back in the Bureau how it is going with budgetary treatment, because I do not think it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u7	That's a fair point. I see other colleagues nodding too. I'm gonna take that to the Bureau, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u8	We shall now begin with the first term of office. The first speaker is Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u9	Thank you, Mr President. The climate summit has begun, rather: the climate circus. It's the 26th edition again. It's quite a piece of climate scare. I quote: "Climate change is a ticking time bomb." "Humanity is at the edge of the abyss." "The last chance for Earth." These are just some alarmist statements by government leaders, green CEOs and other climate bobos who want to push the people home far-reaching climate terror down the throat, such as less driving, less eating meat, less showering and also less flying. Thought and imposed by those same climate bobos, who themselves flew into Glasgow in their 400 private planes. How hypocritical do you want it? And what about the American President Biden, who travelled to Glasgow with no less than four planes, a helicopter and a whole bunch of heavy SUVs? How hypocritical do you want it? Glasgow doesn't have enough hotel rooms to allow so many climate bobos to spend the night and therefore offers a room on polluting cruise ships especially for them. How hypocritical do you want it? Glasgow also doesn't have enough charging posts for the many electric cars that have to drive around there for the show, so the city relies on polluting generators. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who doesn't realize that these climate summits are one big green joke just doesn't want to understand. The shameless hypocrisy and the boundless arrogance are shocking and telling at the same time. Because, yes, say for yourself: if you really think that the world would perish because of CO, then don't you get on a polluting plane or in a polluting car yourself? That the world would supposedly perish by CO does not apply to the elite, but only to the ordinary man and woman, who must undergo climate policy. Mr. Chairman. What was the goal of three decades of climate summits? Reduce CO emissions drastically. And what is the result of three decades of climate summits? CO emissions have not decreased, but they have increased, and they have increased considerably. The conclusion is that climate policy depends on scare-making, hypocrisy, unmet predictions, unachieved climate goals and many, many billions of wasted taxpayers' money. By the way, how much money and how much CO emissions would we save if we stopped those climate summits? Mr. Chairman. Next year, this outgoing cabinet wants to spend 6.8 billion extra on climate. Extra. Extra money for sustainable subsidies, additional wind turbines, additional wind turbines, additional heat pumps, additional solar panels. More green madness. Actually, it's kind of sniffy, too. Because yes, the Netherlands, that very small country, wants to be the climate champion. But no matter what the Netherlands does and no matter how many billions the Netherlands waste on it, the actual Dutch climate effect really doesn't increase on it. This effect, less than 0.5% of global CO2 emissions, is and remains negligible. Is that what citizens in the Netherlands have to pay for? So pay for CO2 reduction while what the Netherlands emits in a whole year will destroy a country like China in less than a week. Pays for going off the gas, all of them off the gas, while the CO2 saved by the Netherlands is emitted by China in just three hours. Three hours! It's unexplainable. Next year, the Netherlands will also want to spend 1.3 billion on something called international climate finance, or climate development aid. The question is, where exactly is that money going? Is that going to solar panels in southern and eastern Europe? Does that go to wind turbines in Africa? Climate development aid, and to realize that many hundreds of thousands of Dutch households can no longer pay the energy bill. It's unacceptable. That is Dutch money and that money must also be spent here in the Netherlands. Use it to combat energy poverty and then not in Poland, not in Italy, not anywhere in Africa, but here in our own Netherlands. We need to get that power bill down. Is that what the Secretary of State's gonna do? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is selectively outgoing. Because many extra billions to climate, all of which must seem to be possible, despite the fact that the cabinet is decommissioned. But when it comes to nuclear energy, the Secretary of State says: yes, no, that's up to another cabinet, because we're missionary. What about this sustainable, CO-neutral, affordable energy source? Because, yes, as a VVD member, this Secretary of State is also a great supporter of nuclear energy. When can we expect the results of the scenario study it is currently working on? In concrete terms, when does the government think that a detailed plan is on the table that can be presented to us here for the realization of one or more new power stations? When's that gonna happen? Because the sooner we start doing that, the better. As left-wing parties always blame us: yes, no, the construction of such a plant always takes so long. Well, the sooner we start with that, the better. And the sooner we stop that green madness, wind turbines, solar panels, heat pumps, you name it all, the better. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u10	Thank you to Mr Kops. I call Mr Graus of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Given the five minutes' speaking time, the shortest since 2006, when I was allowed to take office here, and also an EZ budget that was quite boring this year, I am focusing in particular on matters of importance to entrepreneurs. The corona measures have already been discussed, the family businesses have already been discussed. We have even tabled motions on this subject with Mr Van Haga and also with Caroline van der Plas of the BoerBurgerBeweging, Mrs Van der Plas, also known as Lientje. In recent years, we have tabled various motions to get SME funding in order. We have often tabled motions, including my colleague Mr Van Dijck, for a national savings bank, an SME bank. Unfortunately, they were not allowed to count on a majority. But I do know that SMEs need this, because banks still do not fulfil their original tasks adequately. If, of course, the Minister, in cooperation with his finance colleague, does not make any promises, we may be able to take our motions that have already been tabled out of the mothballs for that national savings bank, the SME bank. I may be preparing a motion on that. I have another question about the Belgian win-win scheme, a subordinated loan with a maximum of 1.75% interest. How's that going? Is the Minister going to work on this in cooperation with the Minister of Finance? I would have liked to have had a reaction to that, too. Otherwise, we may also be able to prepare motions for that. Then I'd like to talk about space travel. André Kuipers has had a huge impact, a positive impact on our entire economy, medical science and you name it all. Given the high value of space space for aviation, satellite, telecom and medical research, we would like to know the Minister's commitment to the new ESA registration for space programmes in 2022. Because in this way the Dutch industry can take priority in the supply of technology and parts for rockets and shuttles, and possibly deliver another astronaut, because that has done us all a lot of good. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that, too. The craft economy accounts for EUR 110 billion a year. It is an indispensable part of the Dutch knowledge economy and society. I know that, at the request of the Ministry and in cooperation with SMEs, the Netherlands and all 24 affiliated craft industries have submitted a project proposal to resolve bottlenecks. What's going to be done with that? I would have liked to have known the progress of that. I would like to be kept informed. I understand that a proposal can be financed from the EUR 1 million left over from the dissolved Crafts Capital Company. I have a motion for that, too, if there is no commitment. I would like the remainder of the Craft Trade Unions to be allocated to the project proposal of SMEs, the Netherlands, in cooperation with the Crafts Associations. Entrepreneurs have been flooded with a growing number of commitments over the past cabinet period, costing them more than EUR 4 billion. In the black book presented to the Lower House by SMEs The Netherlands, there are recommendations for a new cabinet now there is a outgoing cabinet, but they can already start to solve 100 bottlenecks that they face. I also noticed this during the working visits I have made as a member of the States General over the last 15 years. What public funds will the Minister use to tackle these bottlenecks and strengthen and strengthen the economy? I'd say "Fit for 2022" and not for 55, as Mr. Timmermans would like. I think much must be done in the short term. The many companies I visited complain about increasing regulatory pressure from Brussels. Now there is an adopted motion on the SME test. A lot of people don't know that, because the VNO-NCW magazine will never write about it coming from a PVV. We'll never get those credits, but it did come from the PVV and from me. That key isn't gonna be used enough. My colleague Boswijk from the CDA has already asked to use them with LNV. Well, it was supposed to, but it won't. We want this SME test to apply to EU policies and proposals. It was supposed to, but it won't. That was the intention of my motion: the Chamber, heard the debate. The ATF can make quantitative analyses of the proportionality, affordability, workability and implementation of the EU proposals. I also have a motion for a resolution before me. I see my time goes very fast. It is not at the expense of my motions, Madam President. I've got it figured out. Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga stand up for the fairgrounds and for the bakery industry: all of these children, who haven't had enough to ring the bell and who haven't had an aggressive lobby. Stay in touch with that. Finally, I would like to ask car designers such as VDL in Born, Delft University and automotive education to talk to us to see if we can build a Dutch car on hydrogen, because that is the car of the future. I'll explain that in the second term, because I have to stop. A blessed evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u12	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Strien, VVD, and it is his maiden speech. I can hear Mr Graus saying, "I'm sorry!'; Zero interruptions. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u13	I'm sorry about that, too, Mr. Graus. Madam President. It is honorable to be standing here today, in this room, in this house. I've walked around the old Binnenhof before and in other roles. As a romantic, I think back with nostalgia of that beautiful building and the stories it houses. A story like that brings us to the Chamber of Acts. This rather spectacular room is filled to the ceiling with books full of legislation and debate reports, except for one shelf. That's empty, because it's the war years 40-45. This shelf is kept empty to remind us that in those years the House of Representatives did not meet. During the many guided tours I gave as an employee at the Binnenhof, we always ended up there, in that room, in front of that shelf. I then invited one of the guests to read the last page of the Acts just before the occupation. For your image: it is 10 May 1940, strange armies invade our country and the sky above The Hague is filled with parachutists. In the midst of this chaos, Parliament will meet one more time. 37 out of 100 parliamentarians made it to the Old Hall, where the President issued a brief statement. He ends with the following words: "We, representatives of the people, are most ferociously protagonists against this atrocity. In fearless courage and in noble self-sacrifice we shall be able to resist the enemy with the weapons. In a glorious past, we will find the strength. In these hours of distress and danger we join together and confidently to our beloved queen and we pray Her Majesty's Rule power and strength. God help us in this ordeal and spare our beloved homeland." During the reading the joyful atmosphere that characterized our guided tours always disappeared. Realizing that this house is not self-evident and that the freedoms, achievements, prosperity and prosperity we know in this country, which allow us to gather freely here, are not self-evident. At those moments, I realized the importance and value of the system we have harnessed with each other, and that there is a great responsibility not to waste it. Mr. Chairman. I always took myself as a young man at such moments in the Chamber of Acts for that, if I ever had the chance to meet in this house myself, I would feel that responsibility. Now, many years later, I stand here, aware of the fact that we only temporarily populate this house, have a duty to pass it on to the generations after us, as to my sons, and that this is not self-evident. In my case, this awareness has been enhanced by wanderings at home and abroad. Already at 16 in school in England I heard from my friends from Nigeria, Botswana or Johor what it was like to have to stand up in an undemocratic society. At the UN, I saw clearly where this could lead. Once I came to work in The Hague, I did so after the turbulent years of Fortuyn. I saw that democracy could be under attack in the Netherlands too, and I saw that some of the population did not feel seen and heard by politics. It scared the shit out of me and scared the shit out of me again. Because once again there is a lot of unrest in society. We all see the demonstrations in front of our building getting more grim every day. The splitting and acute issues are building up: climate, corona, nitrogen, rising international tensions and more and more colleagues who are threatened. We as politicians, this house, again do not seem to be able to give the Netherlands the feeling that we understand them and that we are there for them, that we work together for them. The polarization sometimes trickles through the walls of this new building. This is expressed by nonsense, threats, conspiracy theories, roll-call votes every now and then, cut films for the stage, the supporters and the socialists. Threats towards those who do not like us, and above all by not being truly open to the other's input and objections. But only by wanting to operate out of the shooter's pit of one's own right. Madam President. Democracy is a model of governance. It's not a play. This is the country conference room. Our responsibility here is not every voice of the people but filterless by spouting the microphone and dishing false solutions. Our responsibility is to show the people in the country that we stand up for their interests, but also to recognise that some decisions are difficult, to ask for nuance, to work together from everyone's conviction to do what we are supposed to do: to make good laws, to control, to protect, to know what lives in society and to solve things that can be better. In short, it's a matter of taking care of business. It is my belief that it is the politicians with this approach, of whatever kind of political plumage, who will ensure that confidence returns. It is my ambition as a Member of Parliament to work with you all in this house on that solution. Fortunately, I say as an optimist, when I have heard all these beautiful maiden speeches from my colleagues, despite all the different paths that have led to this house, there is always one common thread for us: the will to contribute to a better country. I look forward to working together. As far as I am concerned, this cooperation will continue to flourish today in this budget debate. Mr. Chairman. Like so many VVDs, I come from an entrepreneurial family, a family in which generations of companies were given up big and small, entrepreneurs who were grumpy about what was not good, often led to changerift, ambition and solutions. And although, to my father's regret, I will not be his successor, from this angle I can make my contribution to a better business environment. That is very important. 'Cause let's face it, there's a place where the money has to be earned. We all have 150 here because entrepreneurs make the money from which the rewards, taxes and premiums are paid. Large and small, bakery and multinational: they are the men and women who work hard and pay our wages. Also in this particular missionary budget in the middle of a formation they look at us and ask: "Rule it. Keep our business competitive, innovative and leading. Keep our economy open. At the same time, work on a household of strategic knowledge and skills and a level playing field. Ensure a good locational environment by investing in an excellent ICT and knowledge infrastructure. Keep getting less control pressure. Take care of it." Madam President. In order to encourage the Minister in these tasks, I have a number of questions. The Dutch economy seems to recover rapidly after corona. The outlook is positive, but there is also uncertainty. I'm talking to those entrepreneurs, too. A number of things are needed to kick-start SMEs in particular after the crisis. I'll give you two. Firstly, the effectiveness of the financial instruments. At the moment, there are over a dozen evaluations; I already count about ten of them. My question to the Minister is: look at these evaluations in their entirety. Take out overlaps and add reinforcements. Take the lessons of corona with you, for example about communication, range and effectiveness. And does that give brackets to solve the but persistent and tough funding gap? Financial: how is the Archangel motion implemented to help SMEs who have fallen into debt as soon as possible? Second. In addition to funding, human resources are crucial for growth. This is hardly there, however, as more and more entrepreneurs notice. What strategy does the cabinet actually have to prevent entrepreneurs from being hindered by this multi-headed monster in achieving these ambitions? Madam President. The Netherlands is doing well in terms of innovative capacity, but we do not have opportunities, especially when it comes to marketing all the ingenious things that come about here. This is partly because our innovative clusters and ecosystems do not yet cooperate sufficiently. Two questions about this. That pearls of our ecosystem, such as Brainport and budding sprouts such as ESTEC, are crucial for innovation, will be endorsed by the Minister. However, there is no campus strategy in which we look at what makes these crucial hotspots and their valorisation better, which promotes connections and best practices. Because innovation is beautiful, of course, but we don't have to reinvent the wheel every time. Is EZK prepared to explore such a strategy? Is there perhaps a hook in the Heinen motion, in which the Chamber calls on the Cabinet to ensure that projects from the Growth Fund and the growth strategy fit these ecosystems and clusters? Second. The ambition of the Netherlands must be to participate in the global summit in terms of valorisation. Besides the merchant, not a minister, but a researcher, a professor. Yesterday morning VSNU and TNO came up with great proposals on this subject. How does the Minister appreciate this? How does he intend to turn this initiative around? Finally, I would like to mention the ingenuity of space travel. I understand from a press release that the Minister cherishes this sector. That's good. However, he has decided to substantially reduce the budget for space travel. What's the trade-off been here? Mr President, I will conclude. As I indicated at the beginning of my story, we are in a critical phase. It is up to us together, in this house, to regain the trust of the citizen and to give hope that his concerns are seen, that problems are resolved and that we settle it, now, tomorrow and the following days. A long-cherished motto of mine is: try and therefore succeed. This is what I wish all of us in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien, for your lovely and passionate story, even within time. You were worried about that, but it all worked out. Happy birthday to this beautiful maiden speech. I shall suspend for a few moments so that we can all congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u15	Let's move on. I would like to give the floor to Mr Erkens of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is of course always very special to speak after a colleague's maiden speech. I would like to congratulate Mr Van Strien on his speech. How special is it to be able to hold them during budgetary treatment? Mr. Chairman. Climate policy has often been opposed to economic growth in the past. It was either one or the other. We know better by now. Sustainability and economic growth can go hand in hand. Sustainability is even necessary if our economy is to grow in the future. After all, we are moving towards renewable energy sources and the circular use of raw materials. That is the only way to produce economically and cleanly in a growing world population. But then we have to be smart. Dutch innovation can make a difference worldwide in the transition to a sustainable economy and in the fight against climate change. Our industry can be an example to the rest of the world through green industrial policy. We can also take great steps in industry, because that is where a third of Dutch CO emissions come from. To say that industry no longer has a place here is not an option as far as we are concerned. That would push CO emissions across the border and lose thousands of people's jobs at the same time. In that case, the Netherlands becomes poorer and the world warms up. I'm glad you don't have to. We can and will solve it here in the Netherlands. I am therefore pleased that the government has allocated EUR 750 million for the construction of the so-called hydrogen backbone. With this national hydrogen network, industry can continue to produce clean hydrogen in the Netherlands in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u17	Mr Thijssen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u18	Mr Erkens speaks very nicely about how we are going to conduct green industrial policy. I also remember Mr Erkens' maiden speech, which covered the area where he came from: Limburg. When the mines closed, there was a lot of social misery. And now we're facing another huge transition, where all the fossil jobs are going to disappear from the Netherlands, if that's how I hear it. That doesn't matter in itself, because that's what more green jobs come back for. But I think it's important that we have an eye for the individuals who now have a fossil job and who hopefully will get a green job. Is Mr. Erkens prepared to set up a working guarantee fund so that when people fall between shore and ship, they can learn green skills while retaining income and flow to a green job?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u19	In any case, I think it is important that the people who lose their jobs in this transition should be helped to find a new job. I also assume that a lot of people are now working at companies that can make the transition to a sustainable earning capacity. If there are individual cases of people who appear to fall between shore and ship, I would certainly like to see them together with Mr Thijssen. But I think that if we start to set up a fund in advance, we will run into the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u20	I'm gonna try again anyway. There's something like this going on right now. A coal power station is closing in Rotterdam. At least, we all hope so. Those people have been living in uncertainty about what's going to happen to their jobs for a year now and whether they can move on to a green orbit. The company just drops them. Those are venture investors from America, who don't care so much. For all those who now have fossil jobs, it is very important that the largest party in the Netherlands says: we are going to try to motivate those companies to make that turn, but if people fall between shore and ship, then we have a fund and then we catch these people, so that they can experience the transition. Let's try it anyway, Mr. Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u21	At the beginning of this year, we had a debate on the reduction of production of coal plants. Then I had a little debate with Mrs Leijten. I supported these ideas and even an amendment that was tabled. If we have new cases where something like this is about to happen, we can of course work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u22	Mr Van Haga has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u23	Mr Erkens is beginning to be very promising. He says: sustainability and economic growth must go hand in hand. I couldn't agree more. But then he said, "It's got to be smart." Then I'll have some questions. You are a member of the largest party, my old party: the VVD. I'd like to tell you a few things. There are billions going to the climate. I wonder if that's as clever as you say. We're gonna make houses gasless, which is bad for the environment in the short term. We have subsidised biomass plants with billions. That's bad for the environment. We put agricultural land, which we might even be able to build, full of solar panels, while 90% of the roofs have no solar panels yet. Now we're moving on to CCS, Carbon Capture and Storage, while net CO2 emissions are higher than what we capture. Recently, from Japanese research, I come to my question, hear that we are better able to continue in combustion cars than to switch immediately to Tesla's. Don't you agree with me that all these things aren't so smart, and that we should be doing smart things?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u24	I think we all agree that we need to do smart things. A transition can only not go directly to the final solution. You're gonna have intermediate stages. For example, look at electric cars: the current with which we now charge electric cars is not always sustainable. That's right. We manufacture those cars, too. These processes can also be greening in the future. But you have to start with it anyway, because if you don't start with it now... there won't be a moment when the perfect solution is ready and we'll pass without charge. There is no such reality. This transition also goes forward with two steps, one step backwards. Some of the points you mention, for example CO storage, are a lot more nuanced. I'm not a huge fan of CO storage either, but that's just necessary to achieve the goals we've set together. And we have to be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u25	That's what I want to fight. That we have a dot on the horizon that is different, I agree with you. But if, in the short and medium term, because you think you are in transition, you choose solutions that are intrinsically bad and therefore emit more CO than they produce, then are you technically making the wrong decisions in the short term in that transition? That is the case with those cars, for example. By switching too quickly to an electric car, you do something that's bad for the environment. Then I wonder: do you let all these things, such as those biomass plants and the CCS, pass through by an engineer in your group? Or does this just come out and you think "CCS sounds fun; we need something for the short term" instead of really switching directly to a sustainable, smart solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u26	The Dutch climate policy, our climate policy, is informed by science and is informed by planning agencies. That's where the experts you're talking about are at the table. They also simply indicate that these are not the wrong choices, but that we can indeed take steps during that transition. So electric cars are the example of that. As our power supply becomes more sustainable, the CO2 businesscase, if you like, will also be more positive over the lifetime of that car. That's just the honest story. You can't wait for that final solution to come. We don't have that time either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u27	Mr. Van Haga. And try to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u28	Yes, Mr. Chairman, a concluding remark. On the contrary, it is not clear from all these examples I have given that this will be profitable in the short term. I understand the effect may be that you switch to electric cars, those electric cars get better, but in the meantime, the direct effect is negative. I hope you do not just want to rely on the so-called experts who advise you, because when something is agreed in Paris, for example, it happens very often that very stupid decisions are taken here. If they say in Paris that CCS is good or that a biomass plant is good, then this is taken over without a hitch, but often that is not the case at all. So it's worth thinking for yourself, because then we can come up with smart solutions together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u29	You don't have to worry that I'm not gonna think about this. If there are indeed solutions where we have gone in the wrong direction, then I am certainly prepared to reconsider that. But in this case, I have not yet seen that information and I am not convinced of it either. That's why I keep following science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u30	Mr Erkens began by talking about sustainability, climate policy, green industrial policy. He said: I hope that the rest of the world will follow and take an example from the Netherlands. For example, we know the VVD: The Netherlands as the best climate youth in the classroom, the Netherlands as an example for the rest of the world. I would like to ask Mr Erkens what he is thinking. We are going to close a few coal power stations here, while hundreds are being built in Asia. What we all emit here in the Netherlands in a whole year, in a country like China in less than a week, is simply completely destroyed. All the billions we spend on this are just gone, all gone! So again the question: if Mr Erkens says that the rest of the world should take an example of the Netherlands, what does he think? Then who's he kidding?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u31	That is the great thing about climate policy that we stand for. The climate policy we stand for also creates a more beautiful Netherlands. It provides cleaner air, provides a sustainable living environment, creates new jobs and strengthens our global economy by being a frontrunner. I simply do not share the world view of Mr Kops. China is polluting, so we should continue to do so: of course it does not work that way. If someone throws their garbage out the window in Mr. Kops' street, he won't throw it out his window, will he? We also have our own responsibility for the street in which we live together, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u32	We have a climate summit. The VVD is a big fan of that. About the whole world is meeting there, because we have "a global problem." That's what the VVD always says. A global climate problem, a climate crisis and global CO emissions: we need to do something about that. I would like to say to the VVD that what we are saving here in other parts of the world is completely destroyed by a factor that cannot even be calculated properly. Then it is said: no, but it is about what we are doing here in the Netherlands. Then I ask the VVD: how do you feel about the climate goals in the Netherlands? Whatever you think of it, we say get out of here with those goals, you don't have to. Climate targets are not met in the Netherlands. Three decades of climate summits, and the targets aren't being met either. CO emissions are not decreasing, but increasing, despite the many billions wasted on them. How does Mr Erkens feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u33	I am glad to hear that Mr Kops is making another comparison with China in his speech. He will therefore be pleased that we are now in favour of a European approach. We had a debate last week about Fit for 55 with each other. Mr Kops was not in favour of this either, even though the argument would be that the Netherlands is operating in a large economic bloc, which also makes us more effective worldwide. I would like to point out the innovation we are doing here. Think of the steel industry, for example. If we can produce green steel in IJmuiden, it is an innovation that can also be taken over in other countries of the world and that can be sold by Dutch companies. You have remained behind for 20 years in this respect, because all these companies want to work on this too. They have nothing to do with your story. They want to earn from this and they want to make it more sustainable. So I wonder what kind of Netherlands you see in front of you. Are we, in 50 years' time, the Romania of the future, to put it that way, with an economy that is outdated and more emissions? Is that your vision of the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u34	Through the chairman. That is what I am saying to Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u35	Yeah, through the chairman, sure. First of all... It is true that last week we had a debate on EU climate policy. The EU as a whole is also responsible for less than 9% of total global CO emissions. So even against countries such as China and India, the EU as a whole is virtually not going to have any effect. Second. Mr Erkens mentions all kinds of things that should benefit the citizens, which should benefit us as Dutch people. The fact is that the citizens of this country are only affected by your climate policy. It's just bothering them. They all need to get rid of the VVD for tens of thousands of euros per house, all of them. It's going to cost hundreds of billions. Everything that saves the Netherlands from CO is destroyed in China in just three hours. Hundreds of billions will be destroyed in three hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u36	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u37	What is the VVD doing to people here in the Netherlands? How does the VVD explain that to people? All these billions are wasted. What's it good for? Nothing, zero point zero. Why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u38	I don't think we're gonna agree on this. Again, in the past we had small coal stoves in our homes for example. In the end, we replaced them with new techniques. If it had been up to Mr Kops, we would probably have had it at home. So I don't think we're gonna find each other in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u39	The VVD does not need to find the PVV in this, but Mr Kops of course asks a few legitimate questions. Because you just said: I am in favour of a more beautiful Netherlands that we are going to develop. But does the VVD find a more beautiful Netherlands than a country full of wind turbines? Because for now, I think that's the analysis. We do not immediately switch to all kinds of exciting forms of energy generation, but it will have to come mainly from solar and wind energy. I have a strong impression that this issue will be strengthened at the formation table. So my question is: does the VVD like it when the Netherlands is filled with wind turbines, apart from the practical difficulties that people have to live nearby? The image of the Netherlands full of huge, 200 meter high megaturbines therefore likes the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u40	The VVD's position on energy in the future is clear: we are mainly in favour of wind at sea, sun on the roof and nuclear energy. Earlier this year, we had a debate in this Chamber on windmills on land, including the Council of State's ruling on this. I have tabled another motion with my colleague Mr Leijten on an investigation into the effects of different distance standards for windmills on residents, to ensure that it is properly secured in the future. I share your concern, too. Nor are we in favour of people getting a windmill on the municipal border from another municipality, while they do not have a say in it, but they suffer from, for example, the drop shadow. That just needs to be arranged a lot better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u41	I'm not even talking about the drop shadow. I have often talked to the Secretary of State about this, and I will certainly do it again in a moment, but it is more about the image that we put up. We are setting up huge turbines, the environmental damage of which still has to be demonstrated if those things that have to be broken down again. We do that when there's no alternative. The only alternative is to say: we stop pushing people off the gas for a while, because that way we will have to go to all kinds of other urgent forms of energy, such as placing more turbines and solar panels. In short, I am also in favour of nuclear energy. I hope we're gonna hang out in that together. I am concerned that the green merry-go-round is being continued and that the targets are being adjusted upwards, with the rush and the pace at which everything has to be done. JA21 will also ask the cabinet how it sees the costs and will especially point to the image-defining effect for the Netherlands of those 5,000 windmills. I think the PBL is really right to warn about that. We are talking about an area the size of the entire province of Utrecht! I hope we can save the VVD from the alternative of those 5,000 wind turbines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u42	I largely agree with Mr Eerdmans. We have a small country, which is fully built. If there are windmills on land, it must be well secured and they must be at a distance from those living nearby. We are in favour of this, and that is why we are in favour of this motion. We await the conclusion of that. But you also have choices in this. We have the North Sea, which is a lot bigger than the land surface. There are other interests that we must safeguard there, such as, of course, fishing. But the North Sea is also a lot more logical, because there it blows a lot more. In addition, we have huge distribution centers, including in Limburg, but also in other places, where all roofs are still empty. There's no solar panels on it. We also want to focus on nuclear energy. So I think we can make other choices in that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u43	I have known Mr Erkens since March. I notice that he is really convinced that the greening of the Netherlands and working on new earning models can go hand in hand. In his speech he also stressed that he was in favour of sustainable growth. But he also wants to restore confidence in the government. I have a question about that. My group was very displeased with the decision of a majority in this Chamber to declare the climate and energy exploration and last year's Climate Note controversial. We also see that the Council of State agrees with us. In its response to last week's recent Climate Note, the Council of State states that the Climate Act is about to bind cabinet to cabinet. Regardless of missionary or missionary status, additional measures must be taken if targets are not to be met. In the context of restoring confidence, can Mr Erkens promise me that the VVD does not declare the climate and energy exploration and last week's Climate Note controversial?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u44	I can give that to Mr Van der Lee. We weren't going to. I think we can talk about that very well in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u45	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u46	Mr. Chairman. In addition, the cabinet pays extra money for the storage of CO where sustainability still needs more time, in order to take steps. CO storage is an intermediate solution to reduce CO quickly in the coming years, while working on long-term solutions. Wherever possible we also go faster, as we can see now in the sustainability of Tata Steel in IJmuiden. Only, this accelerated sustainability requires a lot of hydrogen. Hydrogen is one of the crucial pillars of the green industrial policy we advocate. Our neighbouring countries also need them all, and there are great benefits in taking them together, for example substantial cost savings by achieving economies of scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u47	That's right, of course. Tata Steel has checked whether fossil steel is to be made with CO storage or whether it is to be used for green steel. People have gone for green steel. I hear Mr Erkens is looking at where to do CCS and where to go for green hydrogen and green electricity. Would Mr Erkens be able to push for the study that Tata Steel has done to be applied to the four industrial clusters in the Netherlands? So we also look for the Rijnmond, Terneuzen, Chemelot and the Eemshaven whether we need to put CO under the ground there or whether we can make the leap to the green current and green hydrogen future in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u48	In principle, we are in favour of making long-term agreements for the sustainability of these clusters. Indeed, ten, fifteen and perhaps even twenty years go by. I would find these studies interesting in principle, so perhaps we could work together in this area over the next few days. However, I would like to make the point that if we put all these plans together, we should also, of course, check with each other whether it is feasible to opt for routes other than CO storage. On the other hand, I would like to say to Mr Thijssen that if it shows that CO storage is necessary for some of these clusters because otherwise it will not work, I expect to find him on my side by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u49	It's the other way around now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u50	It's the other way around!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u51	But that's okay. Let's do the studies and let's go to extremes. It's about tens of billions. This must show what the most sensible choice is for the Netherlands. Then we can have the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u53	Then my questions to the cabinet. What potential do you see in common hydrogen production in the North Sea with the other North Sea countries? Are you willing to examine the benefits of this joint large-scale production in the North Sea? Are you prepared to take stock of what other countries have an ear for this? In addition, there are a lot of questions that have recently been raised in a Newshour broadcast about the future design of the hydrogen market. In any case, the VVD believes that we should investigate in good time how this market will look in the future, and decide on it. What market organisation for the hydrogen market is the government planning? And how is it to safeguard public interest? I'd like an explanation. With regard to green industrial policy, the large industrial clusters in the Netherlands can be well connected to the aforementioned hydrogen backbone. For the small industry, united in the so-called "sixth cluster," this is often a lot more difficult. What is the government doing to make these often beautiful primitive Dutch industrial companies more sustainable? Does the government believe that it is ambitious enough? What more could be needed to make these companies part of a sustainable Dutch economy in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u54	There is a question from Mr Van Raan, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u55	Mr Erkens rightly refers to the forthcoming hydrogen economy. Together with GroenLinks, we asked for a technical briefing on this subject. Does Mr Erkens agree with the Animal Party that we should not fall into the trap of that hydrogen economy that we are doing first on a kind of 'blue hydrogen route', as it is called, leaving the entire fossil industry intact? Does he agree that we should jump directly to green hydrogen? Do I find Mr. Erkens there by my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u56	No, in that case, I don't. This has to do with the fact that we need a huge amount of hydrogen by 2030. The question is whether the green hydrogen that we can produce ourselves will be sufficient in 2030, especially with the more ambitious plans of Tata, among others. It is often said: then we will import it. But that says, in principle, every country in Europe, including Germany. So I would say that we should not write down a route and we should bet on both routes. If there is sufficient green hydrogen production, in the Netherlands and in the world, then we can of course get off CCS to create blue hydrogen, but we should not do that until there is an alternative. We should not do that at the front now, and then be confronted with the fact that we will not have enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u57	Mr Erkens is now pretending that this transition is necessary because there would not be enough green hydrogen or green energy. But it is precisely by using the fossil route of hydrogen that green energy is not available. How can we convince each other that the route he stands for, that transition, is helping a fossil industry for a very long time, when we have to get rid of it as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u58	Basically, we're already using a lot of hydrogen. That's right. Well, in that case, it's fossilly cheerful. Blue hydrogen naturally means that you use CO storage to produce what is now called "grey hydrogen." We already have one. In the meantime, we collect the CO in order to achieve more CO reduction. In addition, we're going to scale up the green hydrogen with each other. The "Fit for 55" package from Europe also sets out objectives for this. The question is whether they are feasible or not. But we're also just tied to obligations that make us scale up that green hydrogen. I think that's just gonna happen. We only have a different view of how quickly that can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u60	Where was I? My last topic...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u61	Sorry, Mr Dassen has a question before you go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u62	I heard Mr Erkens talk about sustainability towards the new economy. I wonder how the VVD still rhymes with the subsidies we still give for fossil energy here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u63	That's a complex question. That is how I know Mr Dassen, and he knows that in this case too. Of course, we give a lot of subsidies, no matter what other countries in Europe do. A level playing field has been created for this. You can now see in Fit for 55 that there are also proposals to organise taxation on energy sources in a different way, i.e. from fossil to sustainable. That common approach is important in our view to ensure that we also maintain a level playing field. I find it very difficult to say that we are only going to adapt this now as the Netherlands. Germany does not, Belgium does not. This simply removes the whole foundation of a part of the business without creating a level playing field. I am much more in favour of this European approach and I hope that this will also apply to Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u64	A European approach is, of course, always good, but we must not hide behind too much of a European approach. So I'm also curious if the VVD wants to come with us to see how we can scale down these subsidies as soon as possible to make sure that all that money is made available to make this transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u65	"Take a look at what is possible and what measures may already be unilaterally changed in this case in the Dutch context..." "Look at" is never wrong if you investigate this and also take the location climate into account. But again, we're looking at a very complex whole. Given the level playing field, the European approach is our preferred approach, but if Mr Dassen has convincing studies which may also convince the government that a number of things may be faster without losing jobs in the Netherlands, then I certainly want to look at them with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u66	That's a lot of ifs and buts. I am prepared to examine that with Mr Erkens as soon as possible in order to ensure that we do take those steps. I hear that Mr Erkens is open to that. He also wants to ensure that we can get rid of this subsidy as soon as possible. Then let's make that possible with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u67	I think it is important in our climate policy that we look at everything objectively. What's the effect? Is it really only in the Netherlands and for our CO reduction effect or are we pushing it across borders? I do not think we are opposed to this objective view and to align policy on the basis of facts. Mr. Chairman. Then there is my final subject: green industrial policy. I needed to see where I was after all the interruptions; you understand that. The Chemelot cluster is, as we know, a lot further away from the North Sea than the other industrial clusters in the Netherlands. The generation of sufficient renewable electricity is therefore more difficult to achieve. There were plans for a tube corridor from the Rotterdam port to Chemelot and then to North Rhine-Westphalia. The VVD strongly believes that we should start building that corridor quickly. Otherwise there is no level playing field for the chemical cluster in Limburg in this case. Sustainability will also be very difficult as long as the cluster is not connected to that infrastructure. My question to the cabinet is what is the status of this tube corridor. What does the Cabinet do to make this possible? Is it possible, for example, to start building this corridor through preparatory work? What agreements have been made with Germany, specifically with North Rhine-Westphalia?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u68	Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u69	No, not by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u70	Not yet, huh? Not by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u71	But at the end of the subject of green industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u72	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u73	I would like to ask a question about this, because I am in favour of it, but under certain conditions. We have had this discussion before, including in the Tata debate. At that time Mr Erkens agreed with me that we are not writing blank cheques here. I'm very curious what the VVD wants back from companies. What obligations should businesses be given as a follow-up to all the public investments that the VVD and other parties are planning?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u74	There are a number of issues that are relevant to answer Mr Van der Lee's question. In the Tata debate, we also discussed this with each other. If we put public money into it, we want to prevent it from disappearing to foreign shareholders. In the case of Tata, we had this discussion with each other. If we put public money into it, there are also binding agreements on the reduction of CO. We are not going to put money in it to find out a few years later that the reduction we have agreed with each other is not being achieved. Depending on the individual cases of companies, we could of course also have discussions about what they still agree with the surrounding environment. In this respect, tailor-made arrangements vary by cluster. The situation varies from one cluster to another, but we are prepared to discuss it with these companies. I believe that Mr Van der Lee is as well, so I think that in this Chamber we will be able to work together on this subject in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u75	That does give me hope. As far as I am concerned, it is part of a climate obligation that every company also has a plan stating how it will be climate neutral by 2050. How do we measure in the interim that promised CO reductions are also realized? I hear Mr Erkens saying: so does the VVD; they must be binding obligations. But when it comes to it, is the VVD prepared to accept the consequences, so that subsidies and permits are removed, that there are real sanctions and that the economy and employment, when it comes to it, do not win again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u76	At least we want to make the story a lot more optimistic. All these companies get a great opportunity to become sustainable in the Netherlands, to be world leaders and to work on a new earning capacity. But if you say that we make binding agreements with each other, then of course there is also a certain guarantee in the system. I agree with Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u77	It cannot be ignored when it comes to the billions that are now available for infrastructure and for the benefit of large businesses. We also heard the Prime Minister say it in Glasgow: green politics is a earning model. But it's tax money, all those free billions that are now ready. And I know the VVD as a party that says, "If you get money, you have to stick to the standards, too." Then I would like to ask the VVD: what real standards are you going to set? And what's the penalty when you don't stick to that? I didn't really hear that answer to the question of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u78	From GroenLinks, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u79	Yes, I do mean Van der Lee's question to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u80	For the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u81	Sometimes it gets a little mixed up with parties, but this is what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u82	I can also understand why you see Mr Van der Lee almost as a VVDer nowadays, because our stories in industry are getting close together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u83	This is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u84	In that case, Mr Van der Lee, you may make a personal statement. The same story as Mr Van der Lee: when we make binding tailor-made agreements, it is not, as far as we are concerned, a blank cheque with no obligations. I find it very difficult to say from my position here in the Lower House at which standards all these companies should make an appointment with us. I would say much sooner that the government has a responsibility to work that out. But from our point of view, it's not a free lunch for those companies. We will indeed have to invest billions of taxpayers' money in it. You're absolutely right about that. This also means that we have to impose an obligation on these companies. That is why there should be a certain reciprocity in these agreements. And CO2 emission standards can of course be devised, but you can certainly think of a number of others. I just do not think that this is the place to work out all these contracts in advance if a ministry will eventually have to work on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u85	That is a ministry that opposed the advent of a coal fund at the time when we are going to phase out coal plants. That coal fund would then ensure that people who work there are accompanied to another job, perhaps in the green industrial policy. We did get that, partly because of your support, but this is the Ministry that opposes it. For years I have seen how the VVD has implemented the principle of profit for residents of our country. Do you need care? High own contribution. Are you going to study? Why don't you pay for yourself? The housing corporations can be reduced, and so we impose a tax on them. If Mr. Erkens and I grab a terrace, we'll pay more taxes on what we order there than Shell on his winnings. That's what it's like now. And that's why I keep asking. There are fine words to be heard: no free lunch; conditions must be laid down. But of course we haven't seen that in the last few years. A person applying for benefits in this country will be checked and punished ten times better than a polluting plant that has been emitting too much cancer for years. That's where we stand now. And I'd like to know where the VVD would like to be if appointments were made. Is it possible to maintain it? Are licences actually being withdrawn? Is money being recovered? What are we gonna do with these companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u86	We had a debate together on Tata Steel. Mrs Leijten and I have found each other in many areas. On these actions I hope to be judged on my work on this subject. If we are going to work on tailor-made agreements with industrial clusters and tax money goes there, then Mrs Leijten can find me on her side again if those agreements are not maintained. It's a lot of taxpayers' money. We also ask a lot of residents in the climate transition. As far as we are concerned, industry can therefore play an exemplary role. The companies have to do more than our residents. I think that's fair in the story, too. It cannot be explained that you have to work with the sustainability of your home, while living next to Tata Steel where the chimney smokes through. It can't be. So we're gonna have to work on that together. I'm willing to do that, but I'm not going to crystallize those appointments here in this Chamber. I say to Mrs Leijten that when we have these debates together, we will work together, as we did with Tata Steel, wherever we can, if we need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u87	Then there is another question from Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u88	Very nice words from Mr. Erkens: binding agreements for companies. Unfortunately, we do not yet have them, or at least hardly. I'm thinking about the Shell case, sued and won by Milieudefensie. You can see Shell is now forced to reduce 45% by 2030. Of course, that should also apply to all the other multinational companies that are now getting our tax money to make it more sustainable, but which are not subject to any obligation. I would like to mention, for example, the companies in the port of Rotterdam. 28% of CO emissions in the Netherlands come from that port in Rotterdam, from those companies. Does Mr Erkens agree with me that now is the time for a reduction obligation for multinational companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u89	Multinational companies are much wider than industrial clusters in this case. I just said we want to make tailor-made arrangements with these clusters. The port of Rotterdam is a cluster. If we make an agreement to invest public money to reduce CO, which we would strongly urge, then of course there will be obligations. I have already explained this in response to a number of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u90	I hear "suittime arrangements" here again. We see that these tailor-made agreements do far too little, while we do allow billions of aid and subsidies to make these companies more sustainable. Often it is also things like CO storage that we then subsidise, which gives the companies an excuse to continue to emit more. Then they get money to save those CO emissions. So these aren't even real sustainability subsidies yet. None of that works. We can see it's not effective. Let us give an impetus to an effective policy and really move towards a reduction obligation. I call on Mr Erkens to do so, also because otherwise it will cost us far too much and far too little. Mr Erkens agrees with me that we should look after our treasury. Especially from the VVD I expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u91	In this case, I think we have a different definition of'suitable arrangements'. When I say "binding tailor-made agreements," I mean that we have to sit down with these clusters to make agreements on when they reduce how much CO, how and what public role is needed. If we are going to do that with each other, then we are not going to give three times the chance to invest in reduction and then get twice no result. There's just some hard deals we want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u92	I just have a closing remark. I note that Mr Erkens simply wants to continue to muddle, because we have made agreements with large multinationals for years and years. But the point is that we must now move on to binding agreements and to a reduction obligation. If we don't do that, we're going to exceed that 1.5 degree and endanger the lives of us and our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u93	I expected the Animal Party to be much happier with my story of showing more ambition in the field of green industrial policy, but apparently that will take a little more time. I'll continue with my input, Mr. Chairman. In addition, additional funds have been earmarked in the budget for a sustainable energy system, for example the construction of more wind at sea. We support that. At the same time, we also note that the government does not look very much at the optimal energy mix after 2030 and specifically at adjustable capacity. An optimal energy mix is sustainable, reliable and affordable. An optimal energy mix also makes us less dependent on Russia. Security of supply and geopolitics go hand in hand with this. One of the elements of a fully sustainable and reliable energy system is nuclear energy. Only with nuclear energy, in addition to a strong commitment to sunshine on the roof and wind at sea, will we get a reliable and affordable energy mix and reduce dependence on non-free countries. There is now a scenario study on the use of nuclear energy in the Netherlands next to sun and wind. We'll wait and see. In my opinion, Mr Eerdmans referred to this earlier. At the same time, as the Netherlands, we have always had a unique knowledge in the field of nuclear technology, and in particular the production of medical isotopes, which are crucial for certain treatments in healthcare. The Petten reactor alone produces 35% of all isotopes worldwide. How does the government appreciate the current knowledge infrastructure in the field of nuclear technology? Does she see any problems there? If so, which one and what does the government intend to do about it? Mr. Chairman. The energy transition must also remain affordable for households and SMEs. Cost-effectiveness remains important in the chosen policy for this reason. We are also pleased that there is additional funding in this budget for isolation. In this way, we help people reduce their energy bills and reduce their CO emissions. In this budget, part of the additional expenditure has not been raised through the energy tax, in order to prevent more ambitious climate policies from being recovered continuously through the energy bill. We can support the direction in which we look at it differently in the future. Mr. Chairman. More ambition is good, but the real challenge of climate policy is often also in implementation. The energy transition is already running into an outdated regulatory framework in many areas, as well as a lack of hands, particularly around the expansion of the electricity grid. Take, for example, a subject like geothermal energy. The adaptation of the Mining Act is necessary to rapidly expand geothermal energy. This adjustment has not been declared controversial by the Chamber, so can the Government indicate when it expects to be able to deal with it further in the Chamber? How's the bill coming? In addition, I would like to see more attention paid to the shortage of technicians to carry out our beautiful, ambitious plans. What is the government doing in this area? Which jars are available for this? How does this work across departments? How are we working together on this with the sectors where the deficits are? What's missing? What else can the government do? What room does she need from the room? Mr. Chairman. We're on the verge of a massive renovation. This remodeling is necessary, but that does not have to be a negative story, quite the contrary. Sustainability also offers huge opportunities. We get a more pleasant life for it in a healthier environment and cleaner air that we breathe in with each other. In addition, we are going to strengthen our economy and become less dependent on non-free countries. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to working with the Cabinet and this Chamber on this major renovation. I'm rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u94	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u95	That sounds like music to my ears. I also think that if we implement the right climate policy ambitiously and effectively, the lives of many Dutch people can get better. But we have also seen that households are being put at higher costs by the way in which the cabinet now wants to roll out European climate plans. I think it is essential that if we want to do this biggest renovation ever, there is support for that climate policy. That is why I think it is essential that the people who have the least big scholarship should be helped. Does Mr Erkens agree with me? Will we agree that if we make the big polluters pay more? That is what Europe is going to do. We are going to compensate for the low and middle incomes and we are going to agree that they are not going to decline in this climate transition? Otherwise, his fine words about life getting better. There's gotta be butter with the fish today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u96	I am also pleased with Mr Thijssen's contribution. Our election programme is also about the affordability of these middle income plans. In my opinion, we can find each other fine in the coming months, including when dealing with European climate plans, to avoid high costs being passed on to Dutch households and small businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u97	This is the difference between the fine words of the VVD and the deeds that need to be added. It shouldn't just be affordable. Affordable still means that people can go backwards, that it still costs money. I just want the commitment that low and middle incomes are improving in this climate transition. Nice words. Now do the deed to the word. Let them get on with it. Let's create enthusiasm about this transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u98	We share the need to create enthusiasm about this transition. We also share the need to ensure that households improve on it. That is why we are, for example, in favour of a sun roof in people's homes, so that you can partly meet your own electricity needs. Or we help people isolate their homes. We can find each other in that. Can I promise that every part of climate policy will benefit people? No, I can't. I can assure Mr Thijssen that we will continue to have an eye for this in the overall policy and that, if we add up everything, people will improve on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u99	Let me make a concrete proposal to shift the current extra billions package for those who cannot now influence their own living environment, who, as the director of the Nibud calls it, are in a wind-up house that is not isolated by the landlord because he does not have the resources, does not have the ambition or thinks "let it be written off; I am going to rebuild it" and who is stuck there. I propose that we invest in this and leave the Tesla grant, which has been messed up in these plans. Of this, the last round we did by the Court of Auditors found that it was almost illegal expenditure, because it did not achieve the objectives, because it did not achieve what it was meant to achieve and because it ended up very unfocused, namely with the richest group of Dutch people, who themselves have the most capital to green. Is Mr Erkens prepared to take this budget line, to park the 600 million for these cars to make homes more sustainable for people who are unable to do so himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u100	A policy-rich climate budget has been provided by the Demissionary Cabinet. There are a lot of aspects to that. There is insulation in that too, so I can find Mrs Leijten in that. However, we also have tasks relating to mobility. We have also received targets from Europe to achieve reduction there. I think it is very dangerous to say now: withdraw all the measures and put them completely into isolation. I think that is risky, because we simply have goals to achieve in all these sectors and there is already money for isolation in this package. I do agree with Mrs Leijten that when we work on sustainability, people are mostly affected by their own homes and transport, in this example the car, we have to take account of the fact that these measures are in the middle groups as far as we are concerned and not in the Tesla rider who can afford them themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u101	Look at the climate policy of recent years. We didn't make it to the targets. Billions have been spent. We all know that 80% of all climate subsidies for households went to the 10% richest in the Netherlands. We all know that this is not conducive to a package that a future government will come up with for the coming years. But for next year we can make that slide to make a catch-up for those houses that can't be isolated, where families live that can't turn on the stove. Let's catch up next year. Then we let those Tesla riders wait for a while, because they have the money themselves and because that subsidy is better for the people who need that money the most. I'd love it if the VVD, who spoke fine words to the Labour Party, would show it right now. "Okay, we see, 6.8 billion, that slide of the car goes to households. We're gonna help him." Those aren't just homeowners. Also tenants are in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u102	My answer stays right there. We have tasks in mobility, in the built environment, in all sectors. There's money for isolation in this package. If Mrs Leijten has any proposals during the budget debate, because she may think that the money is not being distributed in a good way now, I am certainly prepared to listen to them. But I'm not prepared to say that we're not gonna do anything about mobility anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u103	However, one more question to Mr Erkens, because I am not going to have a debate with him for the time being. I'd like to ask him to reflect on one point. Of this 6.8 billion, TNO and PBL say that it will largely not lead to additional CO reduction. Why do they say that? Because the money is needed for the agreements made in the Climate Agreement, under an overly tight budgetary straitjacket, of which my party and others have been saying from the start: within that financial straitjacket, you are not going to achieve those goals, which are ambitious. Did the VVD learn that lesson? Is there going to be a package that achieves the goals, but also frees up the resources needed to achieve them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u104	If we look back at the past and the way in which we have shaped climate policy, I think we can see that we have steered at the bottom of the ranges with the policies that have been implemented. I think that a lesson for the future, including for the VVD, is that this is an approach that probably leads to a lot of disappointment. We also notice the lawsuit going on. Every year we have to talk in a rather negative atmosphere in climate policy, because we are lagging behind the targets set. As far as we are concerned, too, this is not the way forward. That is my reflection, which I would like to share with Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u105	With that... Mr. Van der Lee comes back again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u106	I would like to compliment Mr Erkens, because I like to hear this. Perhaps this means that the VVD is even more blamed for implementing the GroenLinks programme, because the reality is that this reproach often comes. I do not agree with that, but I think this is an important point. Because the consequence of what you are saying is that there must not only be enough money on the table to achieve climate policy and the goals, but also that the VVD will make its efforts in the coming coalition agreement for its social transition, the taking away of the Dutch and, on top of that, the additional compensation of the people with the narrowest shoulders through an adequate income policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u107	If we look at the climate policy that we are going to implement with each other over the next few years, then there are two things that matter to us. I would like us to have a discussion in this Chamber for one or two years about how we shape climate policy and not about whether we should do more. I would like to see us on course with the agreements we make with each other. That's the first thing. The second is, and this is also stated in our election programme, Mr Van der Lee also knows that the affordability of this transition is crucial, also in order to maintain support towards 2050. Because we won't be done in one or two years. This is a transition that's going to take 30 years. It is crucial that people can experience this. I think Mr Van der Lee and I find each other on that subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u108	Thank you. You've been there a long time. You're welcome to sit down. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u109	We are discussing the Economic Affairs and Climate budget today. The cabinet is a missionary, but the climate doesn't wait and so billions are invested. This morning, the morning of the debate, we received further details of these plans and the extra spending of the money. I'm really sorry it's like this. I think we should be able to test it. There are Members of Parliament who are very experienced on the subject and in the work, but there are also smaller groups and we simply have co-budgetary rights. Therefore, I would really like to ask the Secretary of State for a reflection on that. It is a pattern we see in the use of climate funds: billions of public money go to business and the position of the Chamber has been undermined. There is little control over where the funds go and whether they end up where we want them. Take the old Tesla grant. The Court of Auditors has simply said that it is almost unlawful. In any case, it has not been spent at all as it was intended. That's worrying! We are all saying here that there is an urgent need to do something about the climate, but when spending money there is insufficient democratic control and control, and that money certainly does not end up in a way that achieves the climate goals. It is also the Council of State that says that there needs to be much more direction. Those RESs (Regional Energy Strategies) all seemed so beautiful, but there is a demand for direction. How does the Secretary of State react to that? I also see something in directing as democracy. It's more than just a little bit of talk. It's part of the decision. Where else can we do that? Those RESs couldn't do it, and we weren't about it anymore. Mr. Chairman. We are not achieving the objectives of climate policy. The costs, but certainly the revenues and benefits are unevenly distributed. We all contribute to the sustainability of energy, except for the major polluters. We all pay to build solar parks and you name it all, but we're not going over it. There are only a few regional cooperatives in which people report in profit. So the rest flies into shareholders' pockets. Then the energy bill rises and we are all here debating how we are going to compensate. Chapeau that this government wanted to do so at last, but we have been asking for something to be done about it since 2017. One of the things that is involved here is direction, democracy, control: to regulate the will to reverse the privatisation of our energy. I'm asking the Secretary of State to give her judgment on that. That would also mean, for example, that we can keep all those cowboys from going bankrupt every now and then. In addition, people lost a lot of money because they had to put it in first. That would just protect residents in our country. Mr. Chairman. I think it is very crooked that we are going to pay billions for the infrastructure and sustainability of large multinational companies. That is why I also had the debate with Mr Erkens........................................................................................................................................................................................ Hopefully, the G20 has now said: 15% would be good everywhere. That would be incredibly good, not only for the Googles and the Facebooks, but also for the Tata Steels or "Staals," as Mr.Erkens says, and also for the Shells. Because they benefit from the economy but do not invest in the economy. And then you hear all these words: the money is earned in business. The money is also made in the classroom, in safety, in cleaning and in care. All these salaries are spent at the shops on the shopping street. If that were to go away, I say to Mr Van Strien of the VVD, we will destroy the economy as well. I'd like to see that look on the economy. Mr. Chairman. I am sorry that we are now talking about billions of investments in energy solutions that we know do not limit CO emissions, such as storage, but also that we are again talking about subsidies for cars, when we know that people in the Bijlmer are in houses that cannot get warm and where they cannot even control their own heat because there are no thermostats. They're gonna look at it and they're not gonna do anything about it. And yes, that is being looked at away, because the investments that are reserved for this are below the mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u110	Before you proceed, Mr Bontenbal has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u111	I can always appreciate the passion of the SP for justice, but I also find something difficult. That is that your party and yourself have always said in debates that we are not achieving the goals. I think that this Chamber has now developed a kind of tradition in which everyone says that we are not achieving the goals. But the same parties are always torturing off all options to achieve those goals. Your own group chairman said not so long ago in De Telegraaf that he no longer wants wind on land. So, in the end, do you not also blame yourself for what has become a tradition in this Chamber, namely to set high goals with all of us, but to torch the options one by one? CCS can't, wind on land can't, there can't be a lot. Eventually, the cabinet doesn't reach the goal, and then we all say, "That's where the culprit is." I find that really very difficult and I find that very often happens in the Chamber. Shouldn't you look in the mirror, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u112	The moment you tax the CO emissions of the major polluters, they are much more inclined to reduce CO emissions by investing in the technology, because it really earns back. That's gonna get you far more honest and faster to your goals. The renewable energy that has come out of the RES is almost double what is required of all those regions. Then I would say: now opt for the sun on the roof. That's also good to build. The uncertainty, the quarrels that arise and the division that you organize in society about the many initiatives for wind on land can be left for a while, because these terawattures are all signed up for double. Divide the division that is created and rule.... is not good for the support. As far as taxation is concerned, I am sure that if the companies that now have millions of tonnes of exemption were to be taxed on their CO emissions, their innovation would be rewarded. You should look at that. Those exemptions also make sure we don't make it. As far as the options of these cars are concerned, those hundreds of millions have just not been unlawful, but have been very ineffective. If we had invested them in making homes more sustainable, that would have helped people. They would have had a better house and a lower energy bill. We would have had fewer emissions. That really would have been a better idea than to put it in those lease boxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u113	Mr. Bontenball. Try to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u114	The honest story is, of course, that the 35 terawatts have not yet been realized. In the pipeline are all wind farms that are still coming. The fair story is also that there must be an additional task, for example the electrification of industry and the built environment. More will therefore have to be done, even after 2030. The fair story is also that the same story is kept about biomass and CCS. If we do that one at a time, it doesn't add up and we don't achieve the goals of 49, 52, 55, 60 or even higher. It's either one or the other. The Chamber always takes a kind of free lunch: we pull out a few cards, but we do say we get the goals. You are also critical of biomass and you are very critical of CCS...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u115	Mrs Leijten is also very critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u116	Mrs Leijten is very critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u117	You, too, perhaps, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u118	But if you look at the numbers, you can see that CCS in particular is going to be one of the options for the big industry to do it cost-effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u119	You know what I can't explain to you? I find it truly complicated that we all say that everyone needs to move towards renewable energy, while helping big business with its fossil production. That's where billions more go, including electrification. But when it comes to renewable energy, households have to figure it out for themselves. I think that's really weird. I'm noticing that. It's en-and-and when it comes to the subsidies they get, but that doesn't apply to the residents. They are told: put on a warm sweater and turn off the lights, because then we will make it. I don't think that's it. I think it would be very stupid to continue with CO storage, because it does not reduce CO emissions. You put the CO underground, when we don't know if all of that can be safe in the future. You're not reducing emissions either. There is no reduction because emissions are not taxed. That doesn't mean there's gonna be any reduction. In the past, the SP has helped many companies to improve in the context of the environment and emissions, without destroying them. We did that by standardizing them. You should take a look at what happened, for example, to all kinds of industry in the port of Rotterdam. During the 1980s this was forced by employees of the factories together with the SP. It didn't break them, but it made them better. I really think that as long as we let them get away with untaxed CO2 in the air, the big extortionists in business have no need to invest in a turnaround. That is what we have seen in the case of very large polluters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u120	A lot of the facts just don't add up. Business is taxed. The EU ETS stands somewhere between €55 and €60 per tonne. You say that there is no subsidy to houses to generate renewable energy, and a lot of money goes to business. People can place solar panels on their roofs and use the netting system. That is a very large tax subsidy scheme, which is many times higher than what is in Germany. People can get subsidies for housing insulation. People can get subsidies for a heat pump. And yes, when it comes to business, of course there is a lot of money going there, because they are big measures. If one company reduces megatons of CO, that's a lot of money and then those amounts also rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u121	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u122	If you just look at cost-effectiveness, you can see that the measures in industry are often cost-effective. Wouldn't it be wise, then, to put the focus in sustainability very much on industry? This might also help us to spare society a little bit. Because in the end, we pay with each other. The companies are also a little bit of us anyway. Also with the companies that you want to make sustainable, and which I also want to make sustainable, the people from your constituency and from my constituency work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u123	Mr Bontenbal says a number of things. The problem with the grants that individuals can apply for is that there are, but there is always a need for co-financing. As a result, we see that 80% of all subsidies available for climate purposes reach the 10% richest people. Of this, I would say: do so in another way, so that more people benefit and more houses are preserved. I wouldn't be surprised if you do that by neighborhood, so you set up your own corporation and use the solar energy for the neighborhood, and maybe something else. We have our plan for sunshine on rooftops, to do so in business parks and in schools. There is now sometimes a solar park next to the meadow without the roofs being used. So we're definitely thinking about that. Then about large companies: I see that they have a task. I believe that helping is not taboo. I do think that you should always look at how to keep certain control over those billions in the sharing of benefits. Because I don't think we should do "public money, private profits" anymore. We have done this too often and too much in recent years. In any case, this is not the way to achieve the goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u124	What Mrs Leijten and I certainly agree with each other in is the principle that the polluter must pay. I agree with her that there should simply be a very strong price on CO pollution. Just now the word 'green industrial policy' was mentioned. Does Mrs Leijten agree with the following? If you want to reduce the CO emissions from large companies and they are massively low in the foreseeable future, and if you want to ensure that those companies remain healthy, you will have to reach agreements whereby you apply the "polluter pays" principle, but also help the companies to make the transition to radical greening. I am asking this question because, in this debate, I am not only looking for the differences but also for what we can find each other in. Let me briefly explain why. The task we face is really huge. If you add up the megatons and the billions involved, that's huge. I think we're going to need each other very much in this Chamber. That is why I am putting this question to Mrs Leijten. I am looking for the answer to the question as to what solution Mrs Leijten sees when we sit around the table with these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u125	Let's take Tata. In the run-up to the debates and the discussion on them, I have asked what kind of subsidies they actually get. We also remember that they have the exemption on CO emissions of half a billion a year. That's not given, but that's not paid. Let's put it that way. If we say that we can do something about this, can the coking plant, which is as toxic as possible, close as quickly as possible? Everyone's gonna say, "But then you're gonna knock down a factory." I don't know if that's true. I do not know whether they produce for abroad in that coking plant, as they say, and they sell it again and make some profit on it. If you say that such a company receives so much subsidy or exemptions, then it is not necessarily a subsidy, but an unpaid tax, and will need even more, then I think they should give a certain degree of openness about the books. Because we also know that in the past we have paid for all kinds of developments in new technologies, while the technology is now somewhere else. We paid that as a taxpayer for shareholders. I wouldn't want to make that mistake. So I think it's about making realistic plans for CO2 reduction. But as far as I'm concerned, it's also about environmental gain. Because if you were just going to focus on CO2 reduction in the air, and not on reducing emissions from other things, then I don't think you can sell that either. Mr Erkens says you should do it by cluster. I think you can also lay down a generic set of rules. So it's not like you can never do anything about the SP. But you have to look carefully at whether the investments also lead to social profit, otherwise you cannot ask society to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u126	So, Mrs Leijten agrees with me that we need to go to tailor-made arrangements with the big protesters of the Netherlands in order to achieve CO reduction? Part of this is that some public money may be invested in it, but at the same time that is what reciprocity is really something to expect and must make binding agreements with each other in terms of CO emissions, but also in terms of air quality. Is that what I hear from Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u127	Yeah, well, with some basic principles in it. We are not going to pay for shareholders' profits. Mr Erkens was just talking about foreign shareholders. Well, as far as I'm concerned, so are Dutch shareholders. I was just saying about direction and participation that I would be very much in favour of thinking about cooperatives when it comes to energy supply, for example. It's possible. Because of our argument about this in the past, at least there is room in the law for it, so that it does not have to be just private companies. That's what's done in some places. But as far as I'm concerned, we're going to do it more actively. Then people can not only talk, but also really decide, because they are co-owners. I would like to look at this much more closely when it comes to industrial planning. Mr. Chairman. I've said quite a lot already. I would like to ask one more specific question about something that struck me in the preparation of this debate. As former spokesman for Finance, I have always been very interested in tackling tax avoidance. So what's one of the first steps? Transparency. There's a UBO registry now. We have had a lot of debates on this. But that lies with the Chamber of Commerce, and it does not do so transparently. You still have to pay for that data. In this way, the Netherlands scores in the international agreements a grossly insufficient amount. I would like to ask this Secretary of State if she is prepared to prepare for a public trade register, and let a UBO register be part of it, so that we can ultimately keep to international agreements on this matter. Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether a new coalition with the same parties will agree as many revolutionaries as the SP wishes. But I can promise one thing: we will continue to make proposals. I have just said that for years we have been quite alone, in this Chamber, but also internationally in politics, when we said that there should be a minimum base of 15% for paying taxes by multinationals. Now it's a deal. We were quite alone when it came to profit sharing in a company. Now VNO-NCW really doesn't think that's a problem anymore. We have been on our own for a long time when it comes to the fact that a higher minimum wage is also good for the economy. Now everyone says the same thing in election time. From this place, no matter what coalition comes, we will always drive good ideas, certainly good economic ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u128	Thank you, Mrs Leijten. I'm looking at the clock. I think it's best to suspend until 7:25, 45 minutes. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u129	We shall continue with the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Change. I should like to give the floor to Mr Boucke of D66. I hope the two rulers and others ate their dessert. You have the floor, Mr. Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The IPCC report has pushed us right into the facts. We are a low land in a river delta threatened by rising sea levels. I was born and raised in another country that is also threatened by rising sea levels: Suriname. My whole family lives there, my mother lives there. The land is threatened by salination, desiccation and a rising sea. Two years ago, I was there just before the corona crisis. I visited Professor Naipal, who naturally tries to create a natural barrier to rising water off the coast of Suriname by planting mangrove. He's doing very important and very necessary research. He's doing that research with a very low budget, to solve a problem that he and the people he's doing it for didn't cause. Because the cause of the rising sea level is the CO we emit. More precisely, it is the CO that has mainly emitted the wealthy countries in history and which they still emit. I therefore believe it is our moral duty to show political leadership to developing countries, countries such as Suriname. That is our moral duty to those countries most affected by global warming. The climate summit in Glasgow will also include the EUR 100 billion annual climate fund, especially for the countries most affected. I am proud that the Netherlands is making a proportionate contribution to this. Mr. Chairman. I see here in the Chamber that more and more parties see the seriousness of global warming and recognise that we need to take action. We just heard Mr. Erkens from the VVD, a party that really spoke a different language four years ago. It's time to move on. It's not two minutes to 12, but it's two seconds to 12. I also see that decisions we take here in the Chamber have an effect on that, elsewhere in the world, on the other side of the ocean, in my mother's land, for example. I stand before you because I am convinced that political leadership is needed to reverse this crisis. Because that's where the solution begins. A better environment starts not with yourself, but with political leadership. I also think that we are not going to save the climate with flight and flesh shame. We do so with a policy that dares to be at the wheel, who, as a strict market master and director of the biggest renovation we stand for in this country, dares to act. And no, it won't be easy. But we have to do it. We need to build a clean economic system with the fair price on pollution and a push in the back of clean innovation. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address five issues today: the climate targets, the shortage of technical staff, the shortage of electricity on the grid, the so-called Postcoderoos grant and the beautiful island of Bonaire, a piece of Dutch Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday was Climate Day. This was only the second Climate Day, which came from the Climate Act. But once again there was disappointment. This year's Climate Paper shows that we are still not achieving the targets. We are not achieving the Urgenda target, but the 2030 target is still far away. We're still doing too little as politicians. I know the Secretary of State is gonna smile when I say this, but this cabinet may be demissionary, climate change isn't. I'll keep saying this until we have a missionary cabinet. The PBL transfer does show that we are better on our way than the previous report. I admit the Secretary of State hasn't been idle. The fact that specific policies for industry have been developed in the form of a CO2 tax, for example, and for mobility in the form of a lorry tax with a backlock, makes us a little better on the way. So it's possible. If the political leadership shows and dares to be at the buttons, we can fight climate change. We are not going to place responsibility on companies and households, but we are going to show that leadership ourselves. Mr. Chairman. I have several questions for the Secretary of State. To what extent does the 6.8 billion investment contribute to the Urgenda goal? How are the negotiations going for the early closure of the Onyx coal power plant? Are there calculations for the faster scaling of coal plants and the possible scaling up of gas plants? And is the Secretary of State talking to TenneT about the security of supply in the Netherlands? This in relation to my earlier questions. Finally, on this subject: to what extent are measures taken in agriculture to meet the CO reduction target, such as flooding peat meadows? These proposals have been passed before. Mr. Chairman. I'm optimistic. With our innovative strength and knowledge, we can achieve the climate goals as the Netherlands. We must take a huge threshold, because we cannot build without good technical professionals. I know how wonderful the technical profession is. I'm a chemical engineer and I've followed my studies with great pride. However, too few young people opt for a technical profession. Much more technical professionals are needed to make that green cover. Those people aren't just here. Once again, we must be able to show leadership, and there must be substantial investment in the coming years to attract people to the technical sector. My question to the Secretary of State is what this cabinet is doing to encourage further training and retraining. How does the Cabinet ensure that employees are stimulated to remain in a changing labour market? Mr. Chairman. Recently, the news reports are stacking up on the crunch of the power grid, another big hot iron in this transition. There are companies in North Holland that can't tap power anymore. There are also families who buy their solar panels, but cannot deliver the energy back to the grid. Our power grid is really overcrowded in some places. It just really takes more. The network operators are sending us my opinion that several of us are e-mailing about the billions of investments to be made in our energy infrastructure. That is a decision to be taken on the formation table. At the same time, I also see that commercial parties are already willing to invest themselves in a local network, where the system operators run into laws and regulations and have their own responsibility. My question to the Secretary of State is how private market players can also be allowed to invest in local electricity networks. I have this concern not only on land, but also at sea. We need the clean flow of wind farms in the North Sea to run our industry, but then politics must quickly decide to build the power grid in time. I repeat: it is about political leadership. My motion on the 10 gigawatt extra wind at sea is being carried out, but I do have a very specific question to ask the Secretary of State: how are we going to go through all the necessary steps to actually build that 10 gigawatt before 2030? Mr. Chairman. In the Lower House we are right to worry about whether everyone can participate. The thickness of your wallet shouldn't be the obstacle. Everyone must be able to experience this transition. The so-called postcode rose control, whereby you can generate solar energy together with your neighborhood or village without panels lying on your own roof, is a very successful arrangement and can mean a lot to people who do not have their own roof or a small scholarship but want to participate in this transition and want to have solar panels. Like last year, we see that there is not enough subsidy money in the pot. I remember asking the Secretary of State in one of the committee debates about this. I now have an amendment in preparation to ensure that sufficient funding is available for this valuable project. Because if we say that everyone should be able to participate, we must also ensure that we make the funds available. Mr. Chairman. I just mentioned Bonaire, the power supply on Bonaire. Before the summer, we discussed this with the Chamber and came up with a roadmap to make the energy supply on that beautiful island more sustainable. Now the energy company WEB wants to invest in renewable energy, but it cannot wait for that roadmap. From the Secretary of State, I would like to know whether she can already clarify the necessary investments, so that Bonaire does not miss the boat. Mr President, I shall conclude. Addressing the climate crisis isn't about saving the planet, it's about saving ourselves. That starts with political leadership. I am very pleased that the Chamber in 2021 is a different Chamber from that of 2017 or the years before, because political leadership will have to be shown together, from left to right. We must ensure that we are at the wheel and help people on the way to that climate-neutral future, here in the Netherlands but also there, elsewhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u131	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Thijssen. I want to remind you that this is your sixth. Yes, the third interruption. We're doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u132	Thanks to Mr Boucke for his input. I very much like the way Mr Boucke describes how things are in the country he comes from. You can see that people around the world are fighting against climate change and maintaining their country, when they actually have no responsibility for that problem. That's gonna put our noses on the facts. So thank you for that. I fully agree with a great deal of what Mr Boucke says. I find it very inspiring. I believe that there is indeed a need for a great deal of leadership. But if I have less sense of it and, for example, if I move into people who work in the fossil sector, then I think they say: yes, that's all very nice, but what about my job, because I just want to make money for my children and give them a future? That is why, on behalf of the PvdA, I will also bring forward the initiative to establish a working guarantee fund. In this way, we can ensure that the government takes care of the people who fall between shore and ship and that these people can retrain and find a green job while retaining their income. Can I count on the support of D66 for such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u133	Mr Thijssen and I find each other in the fight against climate change. We know that now that we're in the Chamber for a few months. We also find each other in the endeavour to do so in a social and just way. I also know that we were standing down here together when Tata Steel's employees were standing here. Our story was similar. I believe that in this transition we must ensure that workers who get into trouble are always helped. We need to talk about exactly how we're going to do that. I refer to the earlier closure of coal power stations. Then we also worked on a social fund. We'll have to look at the position of the company per company. Can people come or not? Are there people who will miss the boat? We're gonna have to help them. I agree with Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u134	That's good. I'm gonna try to make it concrete anyway. There's money being sprinkled around here, almost 7 billion. I agree with Mr Boucke that we should look at the companies, because it is all complicated. But people who are in the fossil sector and know that they are going to lose their jobs for the next 20 years because all the fossil jobs are going to disappear just want to know if there is a safety net for them or not. Maybe their company is greening on time and they can join the company. But the people who get between ship and ship just want to hear political leadership from D66. D66 must say: there will be a fund and we are going to make sure that you do not get between ship and ship; we are now simply making money available for that. Can Mr Boucke give a concrete undertaking now? Can he show political leadership and ensure that fossil workers can become green workers in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u135	First of all, we must prevent workers from falling apart. There's a huge shortage of technical personnel. We must ensure that people are helped from work to work. That's possible, because those green jobs are coming. We already have a shortage of people who install solar panels on rooftops, install heat pumps and isolate homes. As far as we are concerned, we are first and foremost ensuring that people do not fall between feet and feet. For those who do, we will certainly have to take social measures to ensure that these people are helped. There is no doubt about that with regard to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u136	I'm facing a very difficult task here. That is, on the one hand, overcoming my almost physical incompetence in listening to Mr Boucke's words. I would like to explain why that is. I would also like to reach out to Mr Boucke, because I can hear him say very nice words. But the same party, D66, and the same person, Mr Boucke, have made it impossible, for example, to set up a sustainable energy infrastructure on Bonaire. We could have done that, but D66 would have stopped that kind of proposal by voting against it. So I find it very difficult to hear Mr Boucke talk about taking leadership and supporting us all. I am not even talking about the previous period, in which D66 also very often stopped proposals. Things such as decreasing energy taxation and faster greening could never happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u137	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u138	I am now trying to reach out to Mr Boucke, because I can see that he really means it. Is he prepared in two ways to see how we can still turn the ship of the fossil drama that is now playing again on Bonaire? It's possible. That is where a fossil infrastructure is being built, but we can still build a sustainable infrastructure there. We can still look at the permits, the enforcement and how the coral is affected. Can we find each other in there? That is my specific question to Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u139	I regret that my words make Mr Van Raan unsuitable. My commitment was also very clear when dealing with the energy issue at Bonaire. We wanted to ensure that the security of supply on Bonaire was guaranteed. And at the same time, we wanted the energy supply on Bonaire to be clean in the long run. We've had extensive contact with the residents of Bonaire. Then the world is just a little more complex, Mr. Van Raan. Then showing leadership is something more than filing a motion and in a motion reality trying to lift the world to a higher level. We spoke extensively with people on Bonaire. And it was also about the energy prices on Bonaire. We have said: let us ensure that we do not endanger energy supply in the short term and that prices for energy remain affordable, but let us work at the same time to make energy supply in Bonaire more sustainable. And that's exactly what we're doing right now. That is why I asked the Secretary of State about this. So, Mr. Van Raan, I'm sorry that my words make you unpassionate, but I've been very open, very transparent and very clear at every stage of this process. My heart lies with the people on Bonaire. It has to be delivered. They must be able to do it; they are often very poor people who live there. And in the long run, it has to be sustainable, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u140	I understand that Mr Boucke is returning those words to me. I understand. But two things still stand, don't they? One. There's not going to be a sustainable energy supply on Bonaire right now. Two. One of the arguments put forward by Mr Boucke was that the energy supply would have been in danger. That has not been discussed in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u141	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u142	Again, my personal experience when I hear him talking, I really want to leave myself, but I didn't want to make a secret of that either. But I also want to raise the hand: we can still make it sustainable. This can be done, for example, by changing the statutes of the policy participation so that the word "sustainable" ends up in it. Because what has happened now... That is why you need to ask for a roadmap, because there is of course far too little going on in the area of sustainability. So, again, is Mr Boucke prepared to look with me to see how we can still make energy supply sustainable? There's no way...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u143	Mr. Van Raan, it can really be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u144	Period. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u145	There is no discussion about the need to make energy supply on Bonaire sustainable. I asked for a roadmap in a motion and I now ask the Secretary of State: how can we speed this up, how can we ensure that, perhaps even before that roadmap is completed, we can start making energy supply more sustainable on Bonaire? That's the brightest I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u146	I see that Mr Bishop of the SGP is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u147	Mr President, I am pleased to see that. Thank you. I would like to thank Mr Boucke for his speech, with personal notes in it; very nice. What strikes me is that up to four times it takes back to "you have to show leadership." Now it is not the first time I have heard that from a colleague of D66, because in debates on agriculture it also comes back regularly: show leadership. When it comes to climate: show leadership. It's always about showing leadership. Of course, this is open to the D66 colleagues, but it is always leadership in relation to views that are very pronounced at D66. They have to be implemented and you have to ensure that they are accepted, imposed or whatever. I am therefore not concerned about the content of this report, Mr Van Raan has given sufficient consideration to it, but I am concerned about the presentation. What does that leadership show of D66 really mean? How, where, in what way does support have a place in the democratic decision-making process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u148	I'm standing here as a climate speaker. I spoke for ten minutes about what I think we should do in the Netherlands and in Europe to ensure that we make our contribution to combating climate change. The political leadership I was talking about is directly linked to the content. It can't be done without the content. D66 has been calling for an active fight against climate change for a long time, with ambitious targets and an ambitious package of actions, measures or whatever you want to call it. This applies, for example, to the built environment and mobility. We must ensure that homes are isolated and draft-free and that the energy with which we heat our homes is clean. We need to make the industry cleaner, greener. Those are all things that have been done too little. Political leadership is needed to make that transition over the next eight to ten years. I can't separate it from the content, unfortunately. Perhaps that is why I cannot give a good answer to your question, because for me it is always linked to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u149	There are some differences in nuance on the content; on the right there are sometimes calls that there is no climate or nitrogen problem, but I should like to rest on that for a moment. The majority of the Chamber is sometimes the majority, but it is precisely the way in which D66, by showing political leadership, respects and creates acceptance for democratic decision-making. I have never heard this in all the speeches made by my fellow Members from D66. Hence my question. I will ask other colleagues as well, because I am allowed to do different budgetary discussions and I am sure that it will be addressed by all my colleagues in D66: showing political leadership. Good, but I'm trying to get a picture of that. How...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u150	Mr. Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u151	How do democratic decision-making and the creation of support, social and political, show a place in political leadership? Otherwise, it'll be an abstraction and we won't be able to do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u152	Once again, Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u153	Mr Bishop is getting over a very important point very easily. He says: we are there in this Chamber when it comes to climate or nitrogen. Well, we've been working on it for decades and still too little is happening, whether it's nitrogen, a subject I'm less good at at at home or climate change, which I know something about by now. I would like to ask Mr Bishop a question back. He doesn't have to answer it right away, but it's good to reflect on it. What has Mr Bishop done, what has his party done to the SGP in recent decades to show leadership on our generation's biggest problem: climate change? What have Mr Bishop and his party done to show political leadership?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u154	Mr. Bishop. I would ask you to be a little shorter in your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u155	I'll do my very best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u156	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u157	Actually, this isn't an interruption either. I'm being asked to respond to a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u158	You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u159	Yeah, but it's rude not to. I'll be brief. I would like to comment on that, but as far as the abstract concept of'showing political leadership' is concerned, I do not get an answer to my question. Mr Boucke felt that I argued that we broadly agree on what we should do about climate change. No, we're broadly in agreement that what needs to be done. It is precisely about what needs to be done that opinions differ. And that's what my question focuses on. How will D66, in the context of the glowing speeches on political leadership, ensure democratic assurance of democratic decision-making and the creation of support, political and social? Please, I'd like to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u160	Please, Mr. Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u161	I hope Mr Bishop will reflect on the question I asked him, but he does not have to answer it in this debate. Maybe I'll interrupt him as soon as he's talking. Political leadership must always be linked to its content. I'm standing here as a climate speaker. What do we have to do to create support? When the young people here protest for a better climate policy, we must go to them, talk to them, take their messages, listen to them, incorporate their messages into our speeches here in the Chamber. I wonder if Mr Bishop did that. If the climate grandparents are at the door, we must listen to them, we must go to them, we must ensure that their input is taken into account in the speeches here in the Chamber. That's showing political leadership. We are having the democratic debate here, but we need to pick up and take with us the concerns of people who are very real. I call on Mr Bishop to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u162	Mr Boucke has just revealed that he is an engineer and still a chemical engineer. I like to hear that, because I actually thought Mr Stoffer of the SGP was the only engineer in the Chamber. So it doesn't seem that way. So we've got someone else who can do the math. That's nice. But then, of course, I am a little surprised that Mr Boucke is very proud of the windmills in the North Sea. Then I think: that's a bit weird, because if you calculate this cradle-to-grave... you have to make those windmills first. Then you have a carbon footprint. You have to take them somewhere and place them. Maybe they'll be active there for 20 years. Then you have to lay cables to land. Then you have to break them down and process them at some point. Cradle-to-grave doesn't get that much. The power they supply is also intermittent. So you have to fit that in, and then you're gonna have entry losses. Ultimately, in the short term, that is not as good as you suggest. I am surprised that an engineer such as Mr Boucke is not talking about nuclear energy. Then we could skip all these steps. I would like to hear from Mr Boucke how he looks at it as an engineer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u163	You don't have to be an engineer for these subjects, by the way. You just need common sense. Many of us in this Chamber are lucky to have that. The fact that we need to become circular on this planet is obvious. The fact that we're not there yet is also obvious. But if we look at the alternative, fossil, it's clip-and-ready for me. Then we build those windmills at sea and then we make sure that we also process them in a circular way when they are at the end of their lifespan. I want to make sure we get off fossil, because that's not circular. We need to make sure that we move in the right direction, and we should not be stuck in that fossil economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u164	But if you pass on that cradle-to-grave and if it turns out now, we've all seen those reports, and it's not yet that it makes a positive contribution to a short-term solution, then I'll come back to my question... No, let me first say: if so, are you prepared to refrain from doing so? Then you have not answered the second part of my question. That was about nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u165	Let me respond to that straightaway, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga talks about cradle-to-grave. Then he talks about nuclear power. I wonder what Mr Van Haga calls the waste released by nuclear power. Is that circular? We still have one small point to solve. Then there is Mr Van Haga's other point. The cost of our fossil economy is many times higher than everything we're doing right now, whether it's wind at sea, sun on the roof or other ways of getting clean energy sources. We know one thing for sure now: if we continue on this road, fossil, with gas, oil and coal, we will not make it. So we have to do something else. Are we there? Do we have the picture all the way around? Definitely not. I certainly agree with Mr Van Haga. But the way we've done it for the last 200 years, we can't keep doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u166	These are a number of excuses put together, and I find that disappointing from a chemical engineer. Firstly, of course, I am not as opposed to fossil as Mr Boucke, but let us close that discussion. Suppose we don't all do that, then it's still the case that if you have to pass something from the cradle to the grave and it doesn't contribute to the climate problems or CO emissions, but it has a negative effect if you really take all the factors and all the parameters, you have to admit that that's not a good solution. Returning to nuclear energy, there is, of course, another problem with nuclear waste. Only the question is: how long do you have the time, in the vision of D66? If we hear that in ten or twenty years the planet is going to explode or that sea level is going to rise 7 meters or whatever, then you'd better look at other solutions. I don't think I have so many interruptions anymore, so let's just put nuclear power on the line. But could you perhaps reflect on thorium plants? Because that's the next step. China is now actively working on this. In France, they are actively working on it. Wouldn't it be a good solution for you as a chemical engineer to put our time and energy into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u167	Mr Van Haga said something important for this little debate at the beginning of this interruption. He said: Mr Boucke has a lot of problems with fossil and I have a bit more with it. There is exactly the difference between us, not only with regard to D66, but also with regard to the thousands of scientists who have been working for years now and who predict how harmful fossil is to our planet. We won't find each other there. About those thorium plants, maybe an anecdote. Jan Terlouw, one of our old party leaders, is a physicist. I talked to him once. He said: yes, I counted the thorium plants once in the late 1950s. It's the eternal oatmeal what do you call it? Promise! Promise! Promise! Every ten years, it's said that in ten years' time, the thorium plant will be there. I would not put my money on that, I say to Mr Van Haga. I'm full of wind at sea and making sure we do everything we can at sea, and on as much solar energy as possible. Yeah, we're not gonna make it. We may have to import, or we certainly will have to import. Let us ensure that we get the energy from those countries where it can be produced cheaply in the form of hydrogen and perhaps also with cables. Then we have a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u168	Finally. With all due respect to Mr Terlouw... When Mr Terlouw was still waving the scepter at D66, I was also moderately enthusiastic about D66. That's a lot less after that, I have to confess. But I would not immediately rely on a 1950 study by Mr Terlouw, because technology is moving forward and we have beautiful new things all the time. I'd challenge you to take another look at that. If we can do it in China and in France, maybe we can do it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u171	Mr De Jong of D66 has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u172	Thank you, Mr President. From this position also the congratulations to Mr Van Strien for his maiden speech. Good to hear as an entrepreneurial son that you can also stand here today for those entrepreneurs. I'm sure that's a good thing for your constituents, too. Let me also reassure Mr Bishop of the SGP. Also in this speech the word "leadership" will not fall, so please remain seated and listen with me. Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can see that the economy is moving in the right direction. That was different over a year ago. Companies suddenly had to lay down the work and close the doors to customers. Nothing is more painful for an entrepreneur than that. Fortunately, many entrepreneurs survived with a support package and saved the jobs for millions of Dutch people. Fortunately, it is also time to look ahead to what challenges lie ahead. If we want to build 1 million homes in the Netherlands, provide the best education and keep care and pensions affordable, we need all the entrepreneurial and innovative capacity of the Netherlands. Over the last few months, I have travelled through the country with my entrepreneurial tour to talk to entrepreneurs about what opportunities there are. For example, I was at the Brainport, the Knowledge Hub and the company RPP Plastics, which has a very sustainable and circular business premises, but is not eligible for green finance because the windows they used were so old that there was no FSC label on them. These are all small pain points that don't help to make our economy circular. I was also with the Achterhoek ambassadors, where accessibility and housing shortage limit growth in the region. Their message and my message is that we should focus on renewing, greening and earning. These are also the three themes I would like to raise today. When it comes to renewal, we look at the issues before us, for example: how will we continue to compete globally? We want to set a course for a knowledge-based economy. I want everyone to have a good idea and that the Netherlands is the best place to make an initiative a success. The campuses are essential in that I already heard the VVD there about where those good-looking heads meet and start-ups and companies support each other and challenge each other. I ask the Minister: are we able to support the campuses in the Netherlands well and will we have an impact on the ecosystem strategy? A place where it's pinching now, for example, is Wetsus. For years, Wetsus has brought together all parties involved in water technology, with so much success that, according to the Van Saarloos Committee, it should be recognised as an institute for applied research. Because if that doesn't happen, Wetsus will have to phase out from next year. I would like to know from the Minister how much the funding needs of Wetsus are and what steps need to be taken to recognise Wetsus as a full TO2 institution. I found the Minister's note in response to my chamber motion very lean. I trust he will answer these questions. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is also large in the space sector. I also heard the PVV and the VVD about it. It's really an innovation engine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u173	Mr Amhaouch of the CDA on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u174	It is good that Mr De Jong spoke of Wetsus. We'll get back to you on that. But more importantly, our ecosystems, our campuses. We have them in the Netherlands, whether it's in Overijssel or in Limburg. In Brabant, the smartest region, we recently saw that the High Tech Campus Eindhoven has been sold to a Singaporean state-owned company. How's D66 looking at this? We invest in our ecosystems, whether north, south, east or west. I support that call. But when they're ripe, we'll stand by and look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u175	Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that Mr Amhaouch says that this regional distribution is very important. We share that opinion with him. When it comes to the campus in Eindhoven that has been sold, I share the concerns with Mr Amhaouch. I am also concerned about how we are going to ensure that these knowledge institutions are able to operate properly and safely. I would therefore like to call on Mr Amhaouch to see if we can work together and, for example, to have a discussion with this Chamber on how we can deal with this in the future. Mr President, I shall continue. The space sector has already been mentioned. It's the innovation engine, but we're threatening to lose her because of a huge financial deficit. That is why the question to the Minister: is it true that there is much less budget for the coming years and that the money from 2023 and 2024 has already been drawn up for space? We are also in favour of the National Growth Fund, because we are investing with the Growth Fund in major projects in the coming years. But we also have concerns about the Growth Fund, such as money that is not released and notified projects that should actually be financed from regular money. With that in mind, I have the following questions. Does the Minister consider that the National Growth Fund in its present form is an effective instrument to strengthen the earning capacity of the Netherlands? Does the Minister have any ideas to better use the National Growth Fund for innovative projects? Mr. Chairman. Then to greening. It is in the nature of entrepreneurs to always look to the future and opportunities. As an entrepreneur, I can only see enormous opportunities in tomorrow's economy, in which circularity and sustainability play a major role. Because sustainable companies attract finance more easily and can proudly account for their business operations in front of customers. Investing in greening your business is therefore also investing in the attractiveness and hence the future resilience of your business. The entrepreneurs I have spoken to are still the pioneers in sustainable enterprise, but today's pioneers are tomorrow's leaders. It is now also important to get the rest of the companies involved in this sustainability. That brings me to a very nice theme, because I want to talk about green rangers. It may be a little outside of the first call towards EZK, but what we see is that SME entrepreneurs like to be sustainable, but sometimes they don't know how. As an entrepreneur, you can save money with these measures, but what are you investing in? Is that LED lighting, are they solar panels, is it the insulation of your property, a heat pump, an electric car? That's what we call: the sustainable trees stop seeing the forest. Because entrepreneurs are working on their business, their services, their customers. That's what they work hard for every day. Investigating all the possibilities for sustainability is sometimes difficult or unclear. Like all those entrepreneurs, we also see opportunities. Opportunities to save, opportunities to discern or to be ready for the future. I therefore ask the Minister to give concrete help to these entrepreneurs. Let's make sure someone sits next to them and helps them with these opportunities and opportunities. We want our government to take a concrete look at these opportunities and help entrepreneurs with the opportunities we all see. The question to the Minister is therefore: what ways does the Minister see in existing instruments? Does the Minister consider that additional instruments are needed? I am considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then let's talk about the CO footprint. Climate neutral, climate negative, CO neutral: terms we hear and read a lot. That is good, because more and more companies are choosing to undertake CO-neutrally. That means first reducing your emissions and, for the part where that doesn't work, also compensating a bit. But where do you start as an entrepreneur if you really want to become climate neutral? D66 thinks the CO footprint is a good starting point, because sustainability starts with insight into your emissions. Where does this take place in your company and, more importantly, where is profit to your company? With the Climate Agreement, there are also great opportunities for our entrepreneurs. D66 would like to make it easy to calculate your CO footprint. I would therefore also ask the Minister to identify how entrepreneurs can easily calculate a CO footprint and how this can be supported, so that entrepreneurs can choose how to achieve it. Better for the company and better for the climate. Mr. Chairman. Then it's like making money. The Dutch entrepreneurs are really important for the Netherlands. SMEs, as the backbone of the economy, really create a lot of jobs. To make all this possible, these companies must also be able to make money. Smaller companies are increasingly struggling to finance their businesses. I heard the VVD and the PVV about that too. It does not pay banks to provide small financial loans. This is in addition to the situation in many companies that after one and a half years of corona they find it difficult to raise capital. They've run out of reserves. They've used up their pension and the assets are gone. Does the Minister recognise the view that small businesses have more difficulty in attracting funding and what can the Minister do about it? For us, the first and most logical step is to explore whether it can be made easy for entrepreneurs to borrow money from friends and family. In the past it was also called the auntagath scheme and the PVV I just heard about the win-win scheme in Belgium. Could the Minister write down the advantages and disadvantages of this win-win scheme for us? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go to the shopping streets, because they're having a hard time. There is a lot of emptiness and we are worried, especially about the shops in medium-sized places. We see that several municipalities are really good with those shops. They look at the conversion of shops to houses, search for a piece of manufacturing industry in the shops or view cultural opportunities. We ask the Minister how the Empire can help with knowledge to facilitate those municipalities in making a shopping street for tomorrow. Mr President, I shall conclude. The Dutch economy has taken the way up. The Dutch entrepreneurs are a driving force of invaluable value. That is why we must ensure that entrepreneurs can seize tomorrow's opportunities today. This is why companies need to be helped to make their business more sustainable and future-proof. Therefore, the Netherlands must be attractive to companies of all sizes through good facilities, world-class accessibility and the best education. D66 wants entrepreneurs to renew, green up and earn. In other words, we want entrepreneurs to do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u176	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u177	I am very pleased that my colleague from D66 raises that banking problem, that credit problem. As long as I've been in the Chamber, I've been fighting for that. I've been SME spokesperson all these years. I have also done it with Selçuk Öztürk from DENK and my colleague Teun van Dijck, but I can now guarantee that whatever commitments come from trade union K will not change anything. There's a certain arrogance within that banking world. They do exactly what they want and no longer fulfil their original tasks. My question is this. A national savings bank should be created, preferably linked to an SME bank, which collects money from citizens at real interest rates and also lends it to SMEs. Could you possibly support such a reconnaissance that I actually asked for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u178	I know the concept. I'm not as negative as you are, and you've been in the Chamber a little longer than I have, so forgive me if there's still some positivity in the Chamber after six, seven months. But when we talk about business finance in a committee debate, I see that problem too. Only, my solution is not directly yours. It's just... I really like watching. I have heard Mr Amhaouch talk about this more often in committee, and I would like to look at it, but my first reaction is that I think that a combination of market forces with the government can still be the solution. Because it's about small businesses getting that funding. Very large companies can do the same. In fact, they may even occasionally borrow at negative interest rates, but they are SMEs. I share the problem with you. I would also very much like to discuss this with you in a committee debate. My first reaction is that the bank may not be the first solution, but if we acknowledge the problem together and there is a majority in the Chamber, then I assume that even professional K has a listening ear for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u179	Thank you. Mr Azarkan has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u180	I see we've got some new things at the microphones to get out of here. I don't know exactly what they're called.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u181	Things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u182	Nor should I put any questions to colleagues, but to the fellow Member who has just made a wonderful plea. Now he was quite brief about the National Growth Fund. He had some questions about that. I know D66 is a supporter of the Growth Fund. We can certainly achieve something with that, but how does Mr De Jong himself feel about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u183	First of all, I am very pleased that Mr Azarkan is now the first to step forward in this speech. Thank you for at least trying out these footrests. I am very pleased with the Growth Fund, but I am moderately positive about what is coming out at the moment. That is why I asked the Minister whether he saw opportunities for improving the Growth Fund, because we had hoped for more projects to be awarded, but that did not succeed. On the other hand, I am very pleased that the Growth Fund is remote from us and that an independent committee is assessing these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u184	Isn't the problem just so much the size? I find it striking that only a few hundred million really go into projects and that 3.5 billion is a reservation. I am looking for the framework, for the vision of the economic growth of the future. If you don't have that, a lot of parties say right, then you get some kind of shift. Then we get investments that we could actually have made from the Mobility Fund. There are a lot of infrastructure works, but that could have been different. So I'm a little looking for your support for the plea to ask much more strongly whether the cabinet is coming up with a vision of economic growth and what it looks like, so that we can check it out. Otherwise, we don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u185	I'll ask the cabinet where it thinks the improvement is. I would like to tell you that I hope that there are many more successful projects. I understand very well what you're saying. I hear you say: should we not look at very different projects and should there not be much more in the Mobility Fund? Is it indeed a shift of money or is it an innovation for the earning power of the Netherlands? 'Cause that's hopefully what we want together. We are looking for projects that can help the future earning ability or the broad prosperity here in the Netherlands. I'll share that with you. I only hope that we can sign up for much better and larger projects that we can successfully pass through the Chamber. That is not the case at the moment. That's what I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u186	Then we won't find each other. I do not agree with Mr D66 because that is not the intention of the National Growth Fund. You can do a lot of spending in a regular way. That's why we have budget rights. That's closer to us as a parliament. Then we can make a lot of investments, for example if we agree that more investment in education needs to be made. That's what you'd say: that's what you deserve back. That's not what I'm talking about. I am concerned that we are inventing something with each other, and a number of parties have been critical of this, including my party, and what does that add? There's an independent club on it, but do we have a good framework? Is the framework clear that investments are being made, in particular and as much as possible, in... What is this view on the economic growth of the future? Again, or we'll get a shift. It is good that the North/South line is being extended and we can do some things in a number of places, but we already did. Does that add anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u187	Mr Azarkan is right: we are not on the same page. What I really want to go to is what the Growth Fund is meant for: more innovative projects. Those projects aren't coming through. That is why I am asking the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to reflect just now on how we are going to ensure that we have more innovative projects. I would like to know from the Minister: what is that about? Is it because we have to shift a framework? Is it because the regions or the plans are not getting through enough? That is what I want to know before I want to discuss with you what belongs in a Mobility Fund or in an MIRT. We very much want the Netherlands to come up with plans. Why is there no money being spent by us as a Chamber on all these plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u188	Maybe we have together, or the cabinet here has invented something that could work, but the rest of the Netherlands says: we do not see enough. Of course, it could also be that we've come up with something that's just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u189	Mr President, I will conclude. I put the question to the Minister. In view of his flaming speech, I assume that Mr Azarkan will also have questions for the Minister about the Growth Fund. I am glad he is asking me, but I really think we want to hear more about this from the Minister, because of course he sees the same changes in the budget as we all do here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u190	Thank you. I call Mr Thijssen, Mr PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has taken great steps in recent years. For example, there have been test gardens where we have learned how to isolate houses. We are getting better at generating green electricity in the North Sea. And we have taken a super-effective measure from the climate movement, namely a national CO levy. That is what the planning agencies are so enthusiastic about that industry almost seems to meet its 2030 target at once. Super good. But we're not there yet, not by a long shot. Last summer we saw in Limburg that people were in flooded houses. Just across the border, in Belgium and Germany, there have even been deaths. That is climate change, including in the Netherlands. Those are weather extremes that we need to arm ourselves against. Last week our own KNMI warned against a sea level rise of more than 1 meter. The question is whether the Netherlands will be able to handle all this in the future or whether we should also take into account wet feet. So much and much more is still needed to deal with climate change. Our Prime Minister has called it "the biggest renovation of the Netherlands after the war." Of course, that's very exciting. Some people might find that scary, too. But don't worry: the coalition parties are busy negotiating a second cabinet. That's what they're gonna do together, so we're gonna be warmed up in well-insulated houses together, so we can go from a to b electrically, so there's gonna be a lot more green jobs. This is affordable because the polluters are finally going to stop receiving fossil subsidies and pay for their pollution. Therefore, the cabinet can make a commitment that low and middle incomes will be improved by the upcoming climate policy. The Secretary of State could have offered the Climate Note last week, but she didn't. She was gonna put people to sleep. She said: we have taken a big step and the rest will come; everything will be fine. But this way and with this kind of leadership, we're not gonna manage the climate transition. That is why I would like to discuss three fundamental things with the Secretary of State in this debate. First of all, the goal. If we don't agree on the target, we're gonna miss out, too. Fortunately, the cabinet says it wants to achieve the goals of the Paris climate agreement. The United Nations Environment Organisation, UNEP, says that what is currently on the table in Glasgow is not enough to achieve the goals of Paris. The PBL states that the EU's goal of being climate neutral by 2050 is slow to reach 1.5 degrees. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. What is the difference for the Netherlands between 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees? Do we have to worry very much about the 0.5 degrees or is it all going to be okay? I'd like a reflection on that from the Secretary of State. Then there is the second fundamental point. Climate transition is just as much a social transition. It doesn't matter how you talk about this transition as a leadership. I just showed that by saying how the Climate Action Note could have been offered last week. You shouldn't put people to sleep, but be honest about how much is still coming. You should not calm people to sleep, but sketch a perspective about well-insulated houses, about electric transportation from A to B and about a lot of green jobs. That social climate transition must be fair. For all that change, you also need some certainty. I'll give you two. The major polluters are going to pay much and much more in the future. We already know that, so there's gonna be a lot of financial space. It is therefore possible for the Secretary of State to make a commitment to low and middle incomes that they will make progress in this climate transition. Do not leave people in doubt. Give this promise. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The second point has just been raised. All the fossil jobs in this country are going to disappear, and that is a good thing, because we need to get rid of fossil fuels. Macroeconomically, that is very good news, because a green economy generates more jobs than a fossil economy. That's gonna be all right. But you'll only have a fossil orbit. That is why the Labour Party also calls for a working guarantee fund, so that people who work at a company that can't make the transition to sustainability and who risk falling between shore and ship are taken up and able to retrain and find a green job while retaining their income. According to the PvdA, the working guarantee fund should be around EUR 400 million and there should be a commitment that it will be supplemented if it is exhausted. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to both proposals. This is how we give hope, perspective and security, and so we ensure that the social transition is actually going to happen and that there is support for energy policy. Then there is a third fundamental point. Study after study and article after article show how much impact the fossil sector has on our climate policy. That is quite crazy, because the tobacco industry cannot talk about public health or the Prevention Agreement either. We think that's perfectly normal. My question to the Secretary of State is: how many contacts, how many talks and how many letters are there actually between the Secretary of State and her ministry and the fossil industry, and what are they arguing for? Do they argue for their own fossilisation or talk about what is best for the Netherlands? As a result, the tobacco industry is no longer allowed to advertise in this country. We all think that makes perfect sense. Will the Secretary of State work with me on a ban on fossil advertising? I'd like a response. Of course, I would also like to hear how much the Secretary of State is in contact with the renewable energy companies in this country and with the climate movement. We have just heard from the planning agencies that they come up with terribly good measures that are fair and effective. Then specifically on the budget. There's a lot more money being released. That is good news in itself, but is it well spent? And is it gonna be a little fair? My first question is: how much do the major polluters actually contribute to the general budget? Because then I have an idea of how much the big polluters are contributing to the 3 billion that is being released for a while. Then green hydrogen. Here too, we know the very ambitious words of the cabinet: this is a major priority for the cabinet. Is it not a smart idea that an additional round of the SDE grant will be launched in the autumn, and that a significant amount, a billion or so, will be released for green hydrogen, so that we will actually ensure that green hydrogen is accelerated? Is there an interruption or am I going to go further?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u192	Mr. Bontenball.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u193	The Labour Party makes a very clear black and white distinction between fossil companies and companies that are apparently not fossil, green companies. Can Mr Thijssen of the PvdA give a definition of what is a fossil company? Is that a company that uses fossil energy? Then I believe that 98% of the companies are included. Are those companies that produce fossil energy? Is a car manufacturer who makes cars with gasoline in them also a fossil company? Is an IHC shipbuilder using steel that is not yet completely green, building ships that also operate on fossil fuel, also fossil? I wouldn't know exactly what a fossil company is and what a non-fossil company is. Maybe you can help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u194	I can do that. There are fossil companies that have a fossil business case and make a lot of money for their shareholders using fossil fuels in the fossil sector. So these companies are going to look at climate policy and see how they can make as much profit as possible for their shareholders in the coming years. And that's their right, because that's their business model. That's the economy we live in. But that does mean that you don't have to have those companies at the table if you're gonna do it really hard to phase out the fossil sector. That does not mean that these fossil companies can never play a role in the climate transition. So maybe those companies can play a very important role in the implementation, because they have capital and they have a lot of knowledge. They may also want to make the turn to sustainable. But in shaping our climate ambitions and shaping how we get rid of fossil fuels, these companies should not be at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u195	Mr Thijssen spoke to me earlier in the debate, so I shall put it on the subject of research into the various industrial clusters and the routes of sustainability. I also spoke in my own speech about Chemelot and the tube corridor through which hydrogen can pass, among other things. Is Mr Thijssen prepared to support me in this, if I were to come up with a proposal in the budget debate to start working on this infrastructure? Because my fear is that if we don't start on time, we're not going to make 2030 for that cluster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u196	I'm sure I'd like to take a good look at that. In addition, I wanted to make the following proposal. Roland Berger has looked at Tata, the largest CO-polluter in the Netherlands. Tata said that we want green steel and no more fossil steel with CO capture and storage. I wonder if Roland Berger or a similar institute can look at the four industrial clusters. I wonder if they can advise us in a few months whether these clusters can go to green in one go or whether there should still be an intermediate step in it, which Mr.Erkens also mentions. If that means that certain infrastructure is needed, then I fully agree that we should start building that infrastructure as soon as possible, because we know that it could take seven, eight years to get there. So let's do those studies. I would say that costs 4 million for the four industrial clusters. That's small beer on the 3 billion that's being released. Let us then see which infrastructure we need to build quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u197	Of course, you could also start in parallel with the preparatory work for infrastructure. Because the first years are often filled with procedures, soil research and so on. Whether you opt for hydrogen, electricity grid increase or for CO storage, you can actually get started already. So why wait for that? Why can't we do it parallel to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u198	That might be possible, but of course we do not want to do something that we do not need in the end. If we had now done a lot of studies on CCS for Tata, Tata would have said at this point: well, I don't need to; I want to make the battle for green steel straight away, via green hydrogen and green steam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u199	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u200	So I'm asking for $4 million to be released so we can investigate these industrial clusters. We all know that there is a huge shortage of technical staff. I went to see Alliander. They say: we either have to connect a residential area or a supermarket, but both cannot. This is partly due to the permits, but above all because of the hands. So can we not reserve a significant amount of the money that this cabinet is now making available and say: with that we are going to provide sufficient technical staff? We don't have the plans yet, we're going to make them over the next few months, but at least the money will be there. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Finally. The subsidy pot for people who want to produce green energy together or build a heat grid was exhausted within six months. So I think it would be a good idea if we added 100 million for this subsidy pot. This is, after all, the best energy with support. My final question on climate is about my motion on Urgenda. Are you going to do it next year or not? It doesn't look good in the planning agency calculations. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of points that are not related to climate. While the Netherlands barely meets the targets for renewable energy, the green energy we generate does not come from our electrical sockets. Much of it is directly sucked up by data centers, such as those of Microsoft and Google in Holland's Kroon. These ensure that new businesses cannot now be connected to the energy grid and that there are concerns as to whether there is sufficient drinking water. In addition, these huge block boxes do not fit in the landscape. The PvdA increasingly questions whether we should continue the open arms policy for data centres at all. That is why I ask the ministers to come up with rules. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a national data centre strategy that takes into account water, electricity consumption, residual heat, multiple land use and portability in the landscape? Mr. Chairman. Then the parcel delivery guys. With Sinterklaas and Christmas approaching, there are again hugely busy weeks for them. They deliver over 300 packages a day. That means stopping every three minutes to press a doorbell and then racing back to the next door. Then there's not much time left to eat or even go to the bathroom. A solution to this is to put in place a minimum percentage for the number of people employed, as for postal service providers. So, in line with the Postal Act, you're using an 80% standard. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. I'm a space engineer. So I really want to say something about space travel. Can I see the fact that the space programme is being cut back? I'm getting signals that this could have an impact on the space centre in Noordwijk. That would be very unfortunate and unwise. I'd like a response. In my last fifteen seconds, I call on everyone to come to Amsterdam next Saturday to walk the Climate March, because more pressure is still needed to stop climate change. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u201	Thank you. I call Mr Bontenbal of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u202	Mr. Chairman. Hope has two beautiful daughters: anger and courage. "Anger over things as they are, and courage to believe that they will not remain as they are," says Church Father Augustine. Who am I to know better than Augustine? However, I would like to add a third daughter, namely imagination. Because besides anger and courage, we need imagination to form an image of how different things can be. Anger, courage and imagination: those are the daughters of hope. Mr. Chairman. In the autumn recess, I read three booklets in preparation for this budget debate. The first booklet is The future of the Netherlands, by former architect Floris Alkemade, with the subtitle The art to change direction. He describes that change is inevitable when we look at complex issues such as climate change, housing shortage, biodiversity and agriculture. Our economic model is still too much and too often based on predatory construction. We have become more prosperous, but our environment has not always improved. We realize we have to do things differently, but changing is hard. We also need imagination, an attractive perspective for the future. The second booklet, by political scientist Jonathan Holslag, sketches a picture of the future. It's called Flanders 2055. In Flanders of the future there is no place for junk anymore. There is quality of life, of food, of cities and of rural areas, the norm. The future is sustainable. It's about developing, working together and celebrating life. Encouraging both booklets to formulate what our vision of the future can look like. But before I do, I would also like to say something about the unease that drives us to change. Where is our anger and our displeasure with the present time? Mr. Chairman. Our society too often has the character of a disposable society. We forget what's valuable. What has no direct economic value does not always receive the attention and care it deserves. People who do not, or no longer, participate in the labour market often feel abandoned. Valuable traditions and social institutions are exchanged for fleeting hypes and relationships. Our economy and production processes are often linear. In the process from raw material to product and from product to waste, there is often still huge waste. But the imagination says: "There is another way. In 2050 we have an economy that serves the good life of people. Then we have an economy that doesn't waste: no people, no talent, no nature and no raw materials. Our cities aren't polluted with screaming commercials. Ease up on stuff. The stuff we need is produced circularly and climate-neutrally. Our homes are energy efficient and comfortable. And the energy bill is affordable for everyone. Large companies provide an energy system that has a positive impact on the climate. Small businesses and energy cooperatives play an active role in this. Soulless jobs are past and craftsmanship is appreciated again. Cities are no longer anonymous conglomerates, but have a character and are a safe place for families. The countryside is not a disadvantaged area, but an oasis of quality, food production, relaxation and reaction. Products are of quality and made in Rotterdam, made in Hanzestad Kampen or made in Limburg. People don't feel redundant, they feel appreciated. Our industry has become a green frontrunner and a driving force behind the sustainability of our country and the rest of the world. It is not a society of everyone for themselves and the market or the government for all of us. It is a society that begins with us and not with me, with the community and not with the individual." Mr. Chairman. This all sounds rather utopian; I admit that. But if we don't imagine a future in which we believe, we won't get society along. Our political language must also give rise to the desire for change. Today we are talking about the EZK budget for 2022. This budget belongs to a missionary cabinet. Budgetary texts are not visionary, but, as far as our group is concerned, they are already the seeds of change. We are investing in a green industrial policy, in the energy sources of the future, in innovation and in heat grids. The fact that a missionary cabinet presents a climate package of more than 6 billion indicates that it wants to implement the change that is needed. I have three specific questions. When we look at the lead times for the realisation of new energy infrastructure, we always run into long lead times. Much time is needed for permit procedures and spatial integration. Is the Secretary of State prepared to draw up an inventory of possible ways of resolving these issues in order to speed up these procedures? Does she see possibilities for radical acceleration? The NVDE also recently argued for this. Second question. The network operators need additional own funds to finance the large increase in investments in the electricity grid. If this capital requirement is not met, network operators will no longer be able to properly finance it. How does the Secretary of State think this problem should be solved? If the Empire is willing to jump in, under what conditions is it going to do that? Does the Empire agree on shortening lead times, on close cooperation between network operators and on focusing on core tasks? My third question. Recently, the TKI Industry and Energy presented the roadmap electrification in industry. Electrification will play an important role in making industry more sustainable. What is the Secretary of State going to do to turn this roadmap into policy? How will the enormous additional electricity demand be met? Which CO-free sources are suitable and can be realized on time? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say something about the third booklet I read, namely "Can the government cope with crises?" by Herman Tjeenk Willink. His book is gloomy, because according to the author we neglected the government. The Netherlands is controlled too much as an e.g. Too often the government has become a company, with the citizen as a customer or cost item. Society expects the government to prevent or solve all its problems. But democracy cannot be without a common moral space, without a focus on the general interest and without a social democracy. Mr. Chairman. We are concerned that the government is able to take society to a sustainable, climate-neutral economy. Does the government have enough courage and expertise to direct the transition? Aren't we too busy with politics with a small p? Do we not need a bigger story than the technocratic language with which we often have the debate today? Should we no longer be discussing climate policy from the point of view of the general interest? Mr. Chairman. Hope has three daughters: anger, courage and imagination. It is up to us, MPs and directors, to embody the hope and his daughters: the anger that things have to change because our present disposable society is not sustainable, the imagination to make us a picture of how things can really be different and the courage to change direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u203	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u204	Thanks to Mr Bontenbal. It touches me, because one of my motives for being politically active is to make everything worthwhile. I once came up with the slogan: fight for what's vulnerable. I hear the same passion in Mr Bontenbal's plea. What Augustine said is beautiful, too. He talked about courage, imagination and anger. But when I listen to your speech, I hear a lot of questions coming to the cabinet. Those are legitimate questions; I have them, too. But when I look at where the CDA stands, what the CDA wants, where the courage of the CDA is and where the imagination of the CDA is, and when I look at the climate plan that the CDA produced in the past campaign, I see a very big gap between that plan and the necessary steps to achieve that utopia that you have so beautifully outlined. Let me make it concrete: does the CDA have the ambition to reduce CO2 by at least 55% by 2030? Does the CDA want that or not in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u205	I like that GroenLinks refers to our election programme, but I would like to remind you that something has happened at the CDA in recent months. I was sworn in as a Member of Parliament on June 1st, in a rather turbulent period, also for the CDA. We're in a difficult time as a party. We told each other we want to go back to what we really stand for. One of the four core values is stewardship, as you know. You also saw that my colleague, Derk Boswijk, came up with a new agricultural vision after the elections, in which a number of changes might actually be made. You have seen that, on behalf of the group, I have come up with a new climate vision. You're talking about courage. I think that we in the group have shown courage by re-resourceing the difficult period in which we are a party, going back to our starting points and coming up with a new story, even though we do not know that everyone will like that story as much as we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u206	I think we have a different idea about what "courage" is. "Mudd" is not only telling beautiful stories, but also linking them with consequences. I see the CDA's struggle. I agree with the fact that there is re-bronning, but I also note that parties who have put out a hand in order to achieve some of these necessary steps with the CDA are not wanted in the formation process. I can't combine those two things. I know Mr Bontenbal as very constructive. We have often discussed in debates that we can work things out, but somehow we do not get together at a negotiating table. I think that is due to the CDA's attitude. This also applies to the VVD, but in our opinion even more to the CDA. I do not understand how a party so eager to achieve a utopia is not prepared to achieve this together with the PvdA and GroenLinks at a negotiating table. That's real courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u207	I understand your frustration with the coalition negotiations. I wonder if you're not projecting them a little too much on me. As spokesman for Climate and Energy, I am not going to discuss the formation debate either. Here's what I'd like to say. We're in the middle of coalition negotiations. You know our commitment, you know what I stand for and what I'm doing, and you've seen our climate vision. That's my bet, too. Even after the negotiations, I will continue to work with all parties on the basis of the content. I am not going to participate in the political game that if anyone has a good idea but I do not like his head or his political party, I will not go along with it. If there is an agreement, I will continue to work with everyone in this Chamber to realise good ideas. I think it's also brave to participate in such a coalition. I think it is brave that we, as a party, are also converting a number of changes. And I think it's brave that there are a lot of new MPs in the CDA who fight for that. Maybe there's some appreciation for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u208	I think I have expressed my appreciation for the ambition, for the utopia. We'll share that, too. I also think that we are thinking very much in the same direction as regards the greatest challenges we face as a society. It's not about my personal frustration. The point is that we do not achieve what is necessary with each other. I also note that I am not getting an answer to my very specific question as to what the CDA intends to achieve in terms of CO2 reduction by 2030. The CDA has changed since the election plan, but what does the CDA want?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u209	I can be specific about that. We have said two things. We always want to adopt a European approach. This European approach and what comes out of the 'Fit for 55' package are simply the basis, but we have also said something else, namely that we are fighting for a green industrial policy. For us, it is therefore quite justifiable that, if you do more than what the Netherlands is asking of us, you will do so on that 52% more in the industry. That is how we enter into these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u210	Thank you to Mr Bontenbal for the beautiful books from which he quotes again, as always, about courage and imagination. I would like to debate a great deal of this imagination, but I am also thinking of the people in the country who find it much more difficult and who find it very difficult to worry about the end of the world because they are worried about the end of the month. That is why I am now asking Mr Bontenbal for some courage. Let's just give these people some certainty. Let's just say: yes, we're facing the biggest renovation in the Netherlands; yes, we're going to make the Netherlands climate neutral, but we're going to make sure that if you're worried about the end of the month, you don't go backwards. In fact, we're gonna make sure those people's lives get better. Can you make that commitment? We're gonna raise more money from the big polluters. We already know that, but can we now have the courage to say that low incomes and middle incomes are improving through climate policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u211	Of course, Mr Thijssen of the PvdA understands very well that I am not going to give these kinds of big promises, uncovered cheques, here. You have not given me a concrete plan either. For example, you are talking about 'fossil jobs'. I'm not sure what "fossil jobs" are. Are those jobs for people working in a coal power plant? You were talking about Riverstone on the Maasvlakte. I can imagine that there will be a social plan and so on, but there are also other companies that might fall over. Are those fossil orbits? You come with a large pot of money of 400 million. For me, that is not a concrete plan. If you come up with a more elaborate plan, I'll look into it. In general, however, our commitment is that climate policy should ultimately also be social. If we do not get society involved, the climate transition will be very difficult. I think that we may also have to do a number of things differently from what we have done in recent years. I was just having a little chat with Mrs. Leijten during the break. 30% of the homes in the Netherlands are social rents. My ambition would be, for example, to make it very much more sustainable, so that the knife also cuts on both sides. For me, therefore, the climate transition is totally one-on-one with the social transition. But we need to talk more about the instruments. I am not just going to give a blank cheque for that in a small debate, while we are also just negotiating at the moment. I think Mr Thijssen of the PvdA will understand that secretly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u212	Actually, I'd like to talk about that blank check. Indeed, the General Court notes that the plans, which have arisen under pressure, 'have risks to their ultimate effectiveness and effectiveness'. They also write: "We also believe that Parliament should be given better information on the available budget for future new plans for future Cabinets to meet climate objectives." Do you think it is courageous and imaginative that the House of Representatives cannot really decide at all, because it is unclear what is ahead and because the models used may not be as good as proposed? How does Mr Bontenbal feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u213	I believe that all the plans should be in the Chamber in full transparency and that we should discuss them with each other. In a previous debate I even referred to the Climate Agreement. I have also said that one of the things that I have noticed and which, as far as I am concerned, have to be different in the whole direction of climate policy in the Netherlands is transparency. I believe that this has also gone wrong in the conclusion of the Climate Agreement. They just asked: what is the lobby of fossil companies in the Ministry? I would like to see the lobby of all organisations. I think we need to make this transparent with each other. I therefore believe that as a Chamber we have a right to know who is advocating what and that this should be completely transparent. That's how we have to make policies. For example, in our climate vision, I wrote that we want an independent scientific advisory board. That is another way of getting more of the game of power and counterpower and more transparency in the climate debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u214	But if there is none of that, if there is no clarity about lobbying activities, then at the end of the day we will give a blank cheque to the Ministry. As far as the Onyxcentrale and Riverstone are concerned, I mentioned this in a legal procedure with then Secretary of State Bas van 't Wout. Then I asked: "What contacts have there been? There's a huge buy-back charge being asked by those investors. That's almost four times what they paid for it. How can that be?" We didn't have a drop of transparency back then. You say here in an interruption to my colleague from the Labour Party that he cannot give away blank cheques in a debate like today. Today we are talking about 6.8 billion, just over the next year, in order to achieve climate objectives. I understand very well that Mr Bontenbal's party is forming and he cannot say much about that. But we could talk about that extra investment here in this Chamber and do that shift. I mean, you could do that, couldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u215	As far as I'm concerned, that's okay. As a Member of Parliament, you also have instruments to request that. I'm also curious to know exactly what plans you're referring to. Do you mean the hydrogen backbone and the discussion that has been going on about that? Which plans are you referring to exactly? Because of course you can get that information as a Member of Parliament, also about the closure of that additional coal plant. You almost blame me for intransigence, when I think it is a interplay between Chamber and Cabinet. The Chamber controls the cabinet. I don't think we control each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u216	No, but that's why I'm looking for where the CDA is. The CDA says here: we can't give away a blank cheque. I will come up with an amendment, certainly inspired by the interruption debate I had earlier with the VVD, to use the investment in the Teslalease bins for next year to make houses more sustainable for those incomes that cannot bear it themselves or have no influence on it. In concrete terms, this is a shift of money for next year. That is what we are deciding today. If one does not know what it is about: we had to adopt a law on the earlier closure of coal plants and we only got the way of repairing the potential damage on the profits of the owners after the bill. We still don't get answers to questions. If you say you can't write a blank cheque for things here, fine, but we're checking a ministry here that won't let us know what's going on there. I think that is a serious problem, because 6.8 billion is a huge amount of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u217	Yeah, but I think the room should look in the mirror. It is the Court itself that asks for the closure of these coal plants without asking for the costs and security of supply properly. What are you blaming me for? I am completely in favour of transparency. I'm also in favour of making good policies and talking it through. So, frankly, I don't understand your reproach for me. If you ask me if I think that if a cabinet has a plan, that plan should be properly calculated and all the arguments for that plan should go to the Chamber, then of course I am in favour of it. What's the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u218	This is your last interruption, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u219	Mr Bontenbal was not here in May. The request of a large part of the opposition was real at that time that the bill should not be adopted before we knew the post-calculation. It was then, among other things, Mr Bontenbal's party who pushed through the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u220	I'm gonna be here on June 1st. I'll just have to dive into parliamentary history. I think it is a little childish of me to keep throwing away debates from 150 years ago. I don't know what happened in that debate. I shall read through the Acts again to see what arguments my party has used to take that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u221	Thank you. I thought you came to the end of your speech, Mr. Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u222	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u223	I now give the floor to your colleague, Mr Amhaouch, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u224	Mr. Chairman. This contribution is also on behalf of Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union. The same applies to the contribution of my colleague Henri Bontenbal. We are making our contribution today on behalf of the Christian Union. We're hanging out. Mr. Chairman. In a fair economy, it's about security of existence, about bread on the shelf for yourself and your neighbors, about good entrepreneurship, about entrepreneurs looking beyond today's profits and about shareholder returns. We do this with companies that grow, but also take good care of their employees, who invest in their talents and are involved in their environment and who want to contribute to society as a whole and to the societal challenges facing the Netherlands. The corona crisis put that fair economy under pressure. There are signs of recovery, but the future is uncertain and new problems arise. I'm discussing three of those problems today. The first problem is the shortage of raw materials. The second problem is the shortage of practical and technically trained staff. The third problem is cybercrime. All three pose a threat to the fair economy. They cripple production, put business, employment and security of living at risk and threaten our current and future earning capacity. A solution to these three problems cannot wait for a new cabinet. The urgency is great. A shortage of raw materials and raw materials is not only detrimental to our business but also to our consumers. As a result of scarcity, they face rising prices and long delivery times. It is a good thing that, despite its missionary status, the Cabinet frees 300 million to participate in the IPCEI European programmes for micro-electronics, chips and the cloud to become more self-sufficient and therefore less vulnerable as the EU. I ask the Minister what the outcome of the last European summit on the Chips Act is. What concrete steps are being taken in the short term and what role will the Netherlands play in this? Mr. Chairman. On 29 September, together with the VVD, D66 and the SGP, I tabled a motion calling on the government to take stock of the raw materials problem together with industry and to come up with solutions. This motion has been adopted very widely, but will not be implemented until 2022. It's really too late. Is the Minister prepared to speed up the implementation of this motion? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The main concern of an entrepreneur is to find qualified personnel, especially in technology. The CDA has drawn attention to this before. Government, education and business have a major mission here. We need more mechanics, installers and engineers and fewer economists and administrators. I myself like to speak of a new generation of blue-collar workers from different levels of education who meet on the new workplace of the future. However, the trend is reversed and so we must do everything we can to reverse that trend. Otherwise, the major societal challenges, such as digitalisation and the energy and mobility transition, will not be achieved. The CDA asks the Minister for an attack plan under the direction of Economic Affairs, because that is where we feel the pain. There is a real need for a breakthrough and much remains to be improved. In this way we are getting signals that practical training resources from the corona crisis for retraining in the region are now hardly being used. Could they also be used, for example, as an incentive towards MBO to train effectively and to retrain people who do not have a working perspective from MBO even before leaving MBO? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u225	Excuse me. I'm a little distracted. I was just working on the number of interruptions. Mr. De Jong, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u226	Luckily, I have a few more, so I won't bother you with the math.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u227	Yeah, a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u228	I have just been triggered by the words of Mr Amhaouch. To me, it still sounds like the aftermath of a piece of corona. I hear you talking about the raw materials crisis. We also see a mismatch there. Supply and demand aren't getting together right now. I hear you say this about staff, too. But the demand for staff is, of course, wider. You're talking about technical personnel. My colleague Boucke said the same thing. We also need them very much for the greening of the country. But we see that mismatch much wider. My question is: can you explain a little more about the plan of attack that you are now considering? How do you look at the staff shortage that many more sectors in our country now have? They are therefore limited and can inhibit economic growth. So I'm curious what you expect from that attack plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u229	We have been working for a long time to increase the number of technical staff in the labour market. I call it the Technics Pact. I've been there for almost four years. See how big the problem gets. It's only getting bigger. The current way of going is not the right one. We're really gonna have to go to a breakthrough. When I look at a number of figures, I see 24,000 fewer MBOs on the labour market in the coming years. Only for the energy transition we need another 26,000 to 28,000 people. The difference is almost 50,000 people. That's just that specific piece. So we really have to make a change. Mr Thijssen has just spoken about the following. I do not want to call it "the fossil industry," because then we will have a whole discussion about what that is. But people will go from work to work. There will be sectors in which people will have no job in the near future. We need to train those people. There are newcomers coming here. See which people can work well with their heads and which people can work well with their hands. If it's really necessary, we're gonna have to make an active adjustment. It cannot be that we are training people for jobs that are not available in these major tasks, as we are discussing them with the climate spokesmen today. It can't be that we're having a lot of discussions and we're doing a little peeing contest. Maybe some people don't like me calling it "do we have to get 60% or 55% or 50% CO reduction?', when we don't have the people. People are the bigger problem of the whole climate transition. We don't have the people. I'm gonna ask Special Agent K to come up with an attack plan for that. I want EZK to take the lead this time, not OCW and not Social Affairs. They have to work together. Here we feel the pain, both in the manufacturing industry and in the climate transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u230	I am very pleased that Mr Amhaouch is now becoming a little more specific about this. Because I share that concern with you. I don't just share concerns about the climate transition. I share the concerns about which young people we train for the economy of the future. I hope that we can expect a proposal from you towards us as a Chamber on how to speed this up, even if that is not a satisfactory answer. That it is necessary and urgent, I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u231	A brief reaction. Let me give you a more compact, practical example. I had the installer visit me the other day. The résumé's sensor was broken. We went upstairs together. Where's Mr Van Haga? He's not here right now. As an electrical engineering engineer, I'll ask you a few questions. I ask, how much time does it take to replace a central heating boiler? Replacing such a her-boiler that has a lot of people at home can do one person in four to six hours. He'll hang there and then he'll do it. Then I asked, how much time does it take to replace a hybrid combi kettle? We're encouraging them now. That's perfectly right. He says you need at least two people for two days to hang that thing. That's just a concrete example of how many man-hours we're going to need to organize this whole transition. Of course, there will soon be smarter devices that we might be able to hang even faster. There is just a lot of work to be done in the climate transition and so that people can earn a decent living. That's why this is so important. I hope that this is not something that is politically sensitive, I think that this is a great need to ensure that there is sufficient technical staff available and that we are going to send it. Thank you for the interruption, Mr. De Jong. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. Recent cyber attacks on Dutch companies underline the need to increase the cyber resilience of companies and protect our economic capital. Small businesses are vulnerable, but big companies are just as vulnerable. Increasing cyber resilience is a shared responsibility of government and business. Think of prevention, good digital locks on the door, sharing knowledge or new ways. I ask the Minister: how could we boost initiatives to increase cyber-weability? Mr. Chairman. I have mentioned three issues in which I ask the cabinet to take action: the raw materials shortage, staff shortage and cybercrime. However, as a CDA group, we ourselves do not sit still. Following our own-initiative paper on family businesses, we will soon present an own-initiative paper on the manufacturing industry, which contributes as much as 18% to GDP in the Netherlands and creates a few hundred thousand jobs. Without making companies no sustainability, no societal transitions and no rebalancing of international dependencies. Indeed, our plea for a strategic offensive and regional manufacturing policy as a soil under the green industrial policy. So you're not just gonna let that go on sale. That's a strategic public interest... Excuse me, I was going a little too fast. That green industrial policy also laid Mr Bontenbal down this summer in the new CDA climate vision. The CDA is pleased to see that the cabinet also embraces the manufacturing industry and is working on an action agenda as a follow-up to last October's industrial letter. When will this agenda be ready, Mr President? And can the Minister outline the contours? Will this agenda include sustainability, process and production innovation, robotisation and digitalisation? And how can sectors and companies be supported? How do we actively create new innovative opportunities with European partners? If we are talking about manufacturing, we are talking about companies in many sectors. We are talking, among other things, about space travel, which has already been over a few times today. Because without access to the data from space, there is no social transition. Think of Earth observation, for example. To what extent is space still a key technology for the cabinet, I ask the Minister. Can he explain this? Mr. Chairman. The last, but not the least. The Netherlands has a dense network of regional research and innovation ecosystems, in which knowledge and innovative activity come together. This is essential for the Dutch economy and our future earning capacity. The CDA believes that we should be sparing on these innovative crown jewels. The recent sale of the High Tech Campus Eindhoven to a Singaporean state-owned company, which appears to fall outside the scope of any bill or investment test, is an example of how not to do so. As the Minister himself writes in response to our parliamentary questions, this is a crucial ecosystem for the innovation and development of the Dutch economy. So you're not just gonna let that go on sale. That's a strategic public interest, and much more than a real estate transaction. Does the Minister recognize this? And how would he have acted if not a Singaporean, but a Chinese state company wanted to buy the High Tech Campus Eindhoven? That question remained unanswered in our written questions. Can he give us a factual account of how this transaction went? Hasn't anyone been ringing the bell? Has there not been any initiative on the table to find an alternative solution? Didn't anyone ask for time to think about it? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u232	Thank you. Mr van der Lee van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van Strien on his fine maiden speech. I wish him good luck, although I will not debate much with him. I'm standing here with mixed feelings. From the start of Rutte III, I have been the spokesman for Climate, but this is the last debate I am going to have in this role. There are not many colleagues who have completed that same period. I actually only see Mr Graus. When it comes to climate, it was his colleague Kops who completed that period. Unfortunately, my group colleague Bart Snels has decided to leave our group and that means shifting portfolios. I will be the spokesman for finance, but I have every confidence in my colleague Susanne Kröger, who will succeed me in this role. But those mixed feelings kind of bother me a little bit with my input. Normally I'm someone who's very much of hope and of her daughter's courage and imagination, but I also have a little anger. I have to tell you about that. I have tried in recent years to be a critical but constructive friend of the coalition, especially in the area of climate policy, because I saw important steps being taken. We worked together, for example on the Climate Act. I see the Secretary of State sitting; we did those negotiations together. Something has really changed and moved. At the same time, it is increasingly difficult for me to play this constructive role. That has to do partly with the formation, but not only that. It also has to do with "forgive me the word "climate schizophrenia," so to speak. There is a certain rift in the way this cabinet, especially the largest party, the VVD, talks about the greatest challenge we face. I appreciate Mr Erkens very much, but I also hear other sounds from the VVD, which is making me more and more angry. I have also spoken in the BZK Committee on the sustainability of the built environment. Mr Koerhuis has frustrated every agreement in the climate agreement in this area, and too often successfully. In today's KEV we see zero progress in CO reduction in the built environment. We also see zero progress in CO reduction in agriculture. This is partly linked to the problem of nitrogen. There is no delivery there either. I've also been annoyed by the interview with the Secretary of State in NRC, while I'm wearing a high hat on her. But really, there were things in there that I have a lot of trouble with. I'm gonna go walk them by, too. She says, "I'm not for higher purposes if there's no plan for how you're gonna achieve it." Where was the VVD climate plan? Nothing was handed in to the PBL. How can you say I'm not for a higher purpose until there's a plan? My daughter would say: duh, then come up with a plan first! Those plans have been delivered by others. I called the Secretary of State on Twitter to review GroenLinks' climate plan this weekend. In addition, this leads to 63% CO reduction. There are plans for how we can achieve that. There's a price tag on "That's right," but by pretending there's no plans, you're really putting people on the wrong track. You can't do that! Those plans are there. That argument is really a bullshit argument. Last Friday, Justin Trudeau was here and in the Knight's Room. Jesse Klaver asked him: what about Canada's ambition? It's at 40% CO reduction compared to 2005. On the question "why do you not move towards the European Union, i.e. 55% reduction compared to 1990?" Was his answer: I'm not going for higher goals until there are plans to achieve that. Yeah, that's not how we get there. So I call on the Secretary of State to distance himself from that verdict. Then there is another point that she raises in the interview: 'I have a weekly debate in the Chamber in which ten motions are adopted that take the techniques out of my hands to achieve the goals'. This too is simply wrong. There are two motions to which this applies. This is an unexecuted motion by the coalition to put restrictions on the use of woody biomass in certain forms and to present a phasing-out path for that purpose. That motion has been passed. We haven't had the effect yet. And a motion on manure fermentation in the SDE has recently been passed. Those are the only two motions that have been adopted which wish to bring down a certain solution. However, there are all kinds of wishes from the different parties and there are criticisms of certain technical solutions, but these are not adopted motions. So that is factually incorrect and it puts people on the wrong track. I hope that the Secretary of State will refrain from doing so in the future. What I think is the pinnacle of climate schizophrenia is the mantra of feasible and affordable. The Secretary of State is performing to add: by that we do not mean that we do not otherwise do what is necessary. The fact that you have to say that you don't mean that indicates how "feasible and affordable" looks. The message to the citizens is: we are only doing what is realistic; our plans are realistic and those who want more are not, and their plans are not affordable either, because that is what we are ensuring. The mantra really stands in the way of transition. That is what Mr Nijpels says, as the Council of State says. I call on the cabinet, the VVD and others who use the mantra to stop. It's not the honest story. We're not gonna achieve the goals, and you're gonna mirror people for something that's not gonna work. There is a price to the fact that we have been emitting so many greenhouse gases for so long. These social costs must be taken at some point. You can't push it forward forever. That affordability is really relative and especially if you turn her against doing nothing. The cost of this is hugely higher. So stop that mantra. I have a lot of other questions for the cabinet. This inspiration comes partly from the opinion of the Council of State, which is very good. Does the cabinet agree with the Council of State that additional structural measures should already be taken? Do you think it is better to integrate the policy cycle of the Climate Act into the budgetary cycle? Do you think there should be more government on top of the integrated legislative programme? Do you think that a coordinating climate minister should participate in future decisions on expenditure and legislation of other ministries? Do you think that civil participation should be strengthened and that civil consultation should also be applied? Do you think that national frameworks for the follow-up steps in the RES and CES are desirable? Do you think that the Climate Act should be strengthened with a mandatory intermediate target of at least 55% CO reduction by 2030 and the result obligation of climate neutrality, i.e. 100%, by 2050 or, rather, by 2045? Do you think that the Climate Act, like the EU, should include renewable energy and energy savings targets? Do you think there should be a climate obligation for companies? In addition to the obligation to save energy, which we know, it is a duty to draw up a plan for climate neutrality by 2050 and to actually monitor or deliver promised reductions. If that does not work, there must be a penalty: loss of subsidies, allowances or permits. Are you willing to do that? Do you think that the enormous capacity problems on the grid justify a separate acceleration law on grid infrastructure? I hope that this will be answered and that no reference will be made to missionary status. The Council of State points out that this is not relevant at all. The Climate Act requires that the steps be taken at the time when it appears that they are needed, regardless of the status of the cabinet. I have three other points to make. We've talked a lot about energy poverty. I'm not going to repeat that now. The bankruptcy of energy company FutureEnergy is fierce for 90,000 people who suddenly face a higher energy bill. I don't hear enough from the cabinet about what it's gonna do about this. I hear a no against common purchases of natural gas, no against steering strategic stocks, no against concluding long-term contracts, no against a guarantee fund. I did see a letter this morning that the ACM should exercise a little more control. But give us a step in the future to really protect citizens from the volatility in prices and the risks of market players falling over. Growth Fund, Invest-NL: great ideas. The energy transition would be given priority, but the realization will not be achieved. What's that all about? Why is that? Mr De Jong rightly had a lot of questions about this. I share those questions. This could have been so beautiful, but it's not coming from the ground. Is this because the government is not clear what framework conditions projects will have to comply with in the future? Have we set the criteria too high? Aren't there any projects? What's it about? Good. Perhaps I have expressed my criticism a little too much, so I am going to try to finish constructively. Energy saving is crucial in the transition. I'm afraid that's not going well. The amount of energy we save per year is falling instead of rising. However, I am pleased that my adopted motion on strengthening the energy saving obligation and imposing it on ETS companies has found a way in the Princess Day papers. But to make sure that it also delivers a lot of megatons, I have also worked out a plan for how to do that, because money alone, also for the enforcers, is not enough. I put that on paper. The messengers have it, too, so I'll make sure it's handed out. I hope that this point will in any case be welcomed by the cabinet and that it will be taken up in the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u234	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u235	My colleague was kind enough to give me one more interruption. I regret that Mr Van der Lee is leaving our committee. I sincerely appreciate his always substantive, well-informed speeches. I really mean that. I think he is somewhat gloomy, whereas I myself have become a little more hopeful about the future of climate policy in the Netherlands. My question is: could you, if you look back, formulate for yourself what things you are proud of that you have achieved over the past few years? I think that, despite your opposition, you have achieved a number of things. Can you tell yourself what the things you're proud of are? A number of parties also make the movement here. I think you've seen that, too. Are there perhaps things you would have liked to do differently, or what you look back at and say: perhaps I should have taken a different view myself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u236	Well, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u237	Thank you for the interruption. Thanks for the compliment, too. I gave it up in part, I think. I'm proud that I was one of the people who could contribute to the Climate Act. I think it is crucial that we commit Cabinets to solving the greatest task we face together. I also think that we have been able to adjust at a number of times. This may also have contributed somewhat to the success of wind at sea. I have also fought hard for the debate on green industrial policy. I also see that more parties are going to see something in that. At the same time, when I think about what I could have done better and more myself, I think that's what I'm thinking about. That's perhaps a frustration that I can't get everyone to understand the seriousness and extent of the problem. The ease with which sometimes is called "we pull up a goal," but then is not filled in exactly how you do it. I couldn't do that either. I've been in politics a long time. I started in 1989, so that's over 30 years ago. At that time we, as GroenLinks, already had a programme in which pricing played a leading role. How long it hasn't taken to step in there! If we had then taken steps, it would now be much more affordable, we would have been much further in the transition and the Netherlands would also have been a frontrunner. We're not at all. We are really lagging behind, even compared to our fellow Member States in the Union. On average, we are far behind the CO2 reduction achieved in Europe. Compared to the average in Europe, we emit almost twice as much CO2 per person. We are one of the first industrialised countries with historically huge emissions. And there are still parties here who do not want to accept that 99.9% of scientists indicate that climate change is caused by human emissions. Still, in 2021, we are having that discussion, 30 years ago and in the meantime little is happening. That frustration, I have. I haven't been able to get everyone into that either. I am now going to try to do this from another role, from the Finance Committee, because there is also a lot that can be done to resolve this issue. I'm sure I'll run into you again. There will also be times when I am more optimistic and see that we have achieved things with each other. But I am very concerned about what is happening in Glasgow now, because I fear that we are not doing what is necessary with each other, not even because we are not prepared to really get our fair share in terms of climate financing and to convince the poorest countries that together we need to put more pressure on the great fossil refusers. I'd better stick with that, otherwise I'm gonna keep talking. My colleague-president, Mr Oppenheim, I am also a bit worried about time management, so I am going to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u238	Thank you. I think everyone can appreciate these words from you as a outgoing member of this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u239	Then we will go to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u240	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Van der Lee. I am going to miss his enormous wealth of knowledge in this committee and I would like to welcome Mrs Kröger. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van Strien on his maiden speech. I was sorry I couldn't interrupt him, because he had a stimulating story. But I'm sure you will. Mr. Chairman. In order to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees, it is necessary to stop greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible. However, in the budget we are discussing today, we do not see any sign of the acceleration needed for climate change. Like the budgets of several other ministries, they continue on the business as usual path. Climate policy is praised but sabotaged in policy. We can still prevent the Earth from warming up at more than 1.5 degrees, provided we accelerate dramatically now. If we act now, we can still provide a country with healthy air, clean water, more nature, sustainable agriculture, more homes and lower energy bills. But not acting now brings irreversible damage and huge costs. The system's jammed and change's a long way to go. This morning at half past nine we received a letter from the Minister of EZK specifying the use of the extra 6.8 billion for the climate. I asked earlier how much CO emissions we are going to reduce with these billions, but that is still completely unclear. How much CO emissions will be reduced by 6.8 billion, I ask the Secretary of State. And on what time? Are we going to achieve Urgenda's goal in 2021? If we are not going to reduce CO, how does it contribute, for example jobs? I would like a specific answer to that. Mr. Chairman. What is, on balance, the net CO reduction if we maintain all those fossil billion subsidies, some 8 billion? It's like you're trying to walk down an escalator that's moving up faster and faster in terms of global warming. That 1.5 degree doesn't come without a radical change in our food system. The number of animals in livestock farming needs to be drastically reduced. We can now make the switch to a sustainable agriculture in which farmers get a fair price and in which we stop cutting jungle for animal feed, and reduce methane emissions. More crop and regional agriculture generates much more land, puts an end to deforestation and radically reduces methane. But even the simplest measures we can't get off the ground here. When it comes to meat reduction, the Secretary of State deleted the call to eat less meat from the government's climate campaign. Why doesn't the government itself set a good example? That's the easiest way to get meat reduction going. Is the Secretary of State willing to make a nationwide "Carnivore? Pass it on!"to set up a campaign and make plant food the norm for the government, without restricting that freedom of choice? We saw at the climate summit in Glasgow that a Methane Pledge was signed, also by the Netherlands and 102 other countries. What is the Secretary of State going to do to make this pledge not water down into empty promises, but actually turn it into action? Mr. Chairman. The key to the transition is that the polluter will pay so that the real price becomes visible. With the proceeds, we can make sustainable options cheaper. Reduce taxes on fruit and vegetables, make the train cheaper, ensure better connections in public transport, increase subsidies on the sustainability of houses, extend the netting rules, and I can't say it often enough to stop with the fossil billion subsidies. The bottom line is that we have to work towards an economy within the ecological capacity of the earth. I have just heard Mr Bontenbal outline a wonderful view of how we can achieve such an economy, but I have never seen the CDA take concrete steps to do so. The CDA has always voted against the plans we have proposed. I hope that we are really seeing a new wind blowing in that area. Because the longer we wait now, the more we're gonna pay. How does the Secretary of State feel about a reduction obligation for multinational companies, as I mentioned earlier in the interruption debate with Mr Erkens? Mr. Chairman. In order to achieve this system change, more coordination is also needed. The Council of State has recommended that a climate minister be appointed as coordinator and also ensure that other ministries deliver in line with the 1.5 degree. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this will be a Minister of Climate and Biodiversity, who will be given the same status as the Minister of Finance. I would like to conclude with this appeal to the cabinet, towards the forming parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u241	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Mr Van Raan has the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u242	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I agree with the congratulations my colleague has made to Mr Van Strien and others. Mr. Chairman. I have two topics and a wish. The two topics are biomass and hydrogen. The Climate Note shows that the proportion of combustion, fermentation of biomass remains unchanged, about 100 petajoule, per year. My question is whether the Minister can confirm this. Can he tell us how much CO is released from generating that? It's in the climate and energy exploration. How does this relate to the agreements with the States General to stop woody biomass? Mr. Chairman. In the answers to the actual questions, the cabinet writes: besides the SDE++ as an operating grant, the development of advanced biofuels, among others, can also be subsidised through innovation schemes, such as the DEI+ and the HER+, aimed at innovative pilots and demos. Thus, irreversible steps are being taken in this type of experimental subsidy. For example, we can think of the drama of pulse fishing, where an experiment also led to a huge industry that we had to reverse later. Is the cabinet prepared to exclude biomass from these two innovation schemes? Finally, on biomass: where exactly are we at when it comes to phasing it out? The First and Second Chambers are clear about it: the cabinet must stop. But if you look at the climate and energy exploration, it's like the cabinet's just moving on. Mr. Chairman. About hydrogen. Gas prices have not yet risen, or the government is trying to deepen our dependence on gas and profit maximizing market players such as Shell. The cabinet has entered into an unofficial partnership with Shell for investments in the largest hydrogen project in the Netherlands: NortH2. We are going to have a technical briefing on this subject, which we have requested, but I would like to know now whether it is true that grey hydrogen, i.e. hydrogen based on natural gas, can be the beginning of this project. Finally, Mr President, I would like to express my wish. In the field of energy, we actually still have a blind spot. Can Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba at least be included in the climate and energy exploration from now on? Can these schemes and sustainable subsidies also be made available for this part of the Netherlands? Speaking of Caribbean Netherlands, this Chamber has adopted a motion from the Party for Animals and BET1 to prevent projects that damage the coral from being carried out. But this seems to be exactly the case at the Chogogo Resort on Bonaire: no supervision, no permits and no insight into the impact on the coral. Is this Minister prepared to pull the emergency brake, in line with the motion, and at least to ensure that no irreversible steps are taken until it is clear what the impact is on the coral? Finally, Mr President. I have spoken some harsh words to Mr Boucke about his leadership and I invite him here. I checked: there were 442 motions that D66 was against. I'd like to have a cup of coffee with him to go over those motions and then maybe get some mutual understanding of each other, because I'm always so emotional when I hear Mr Boucke talking about leadership. Again, I'm happy to accept what you say about leadership, but let's do it together. It starts with a little truth finding and I invite him to it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u243	I heard my name fall and then I feel called to walk to the interrupting microphone, especially because Mr Van Raan, to use his exact words, became "physically inappropriate" of me. I don't remember anyone ever physically getting sick of me. I would like to drink that cup of coffee with Mr Van Raan, but I would like to tell Mr Van Raan that we are not living in a motion reality, but in the real world and that we need to find real solutions. So he can bring a thermos can of coffee; we'll drink it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u244	That sounds like a nice invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u245	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u246	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Dassen's, Volt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Van Strien for his wonderful maiden speech. It is a pity to hear that Mr Van der Lee will leave our committee, but I am glad to hear that Mrs Kröger will replace him. Welcome. Mr. Chairman. Action! Action! Action! Those were the words of our outgoing Prime Minister at COP26. We at Volt fully agree with that. It is time for action to reach these climate targets at last. For this to happen, taboos will have to be broken across borders. Away from the old economy, on to a new economy for the Netherlands and Europe. These choices are sometimes gonna hurt. At the same time, if we do nothing, we also miss opportunities. As several colleagues have already mentioned today, it is important that we also focus on a social transition, in which we take everyone with us. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the taboos we need to break. 88% of all investments in the energy sector of Dutch banks, insurers and pension funds are still investments in fossil fuels. In 2020, the government indicated in a letter that 4.5 billion is still being spent on financial incentives for fossil energy. According to a study by Me Judice, even that expenditure is much higher. The International Energy Agency sees this COP26 as the time to stop these fossil subsidies. How does the government reconcile tax incentives such as the exemption of kerosene and fuel oil from taxation and the reduction of large energy consumption for large companies, with Prime Minister Rutte's call for action? In 2018, a motion by colleague Van der Lee was adopted to reduce the incentives that counter climate policy. What steps has the cabinet taken since then? When does the government expect the incentives to be fully reduced? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands can generate more renewable energy in 2030 than what will be achieved with current policies. There is an opportunity to generate 36% renewable energy by 2030. For Volt it is simple: bet on what is maximum possible around wind and sun, because it can be more ambitious. I therefore ask the Secretary of State if she really wants to meet this ambitious renewable energy target. In Europe, nuclear energy is likely to enter the EU taxonomy later this month. President Macron promised to invest EUR 1 billion last month to provide France with several SMRs by 2030. The Netherlands has also been investing in research into SMRs in Petten for years. I wonder what is going on with this investigation and what progress has been made on it. How does the Secretary of State see the use of these new innovations in nuclear energy for the future of the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. We can achieve the climate goals through cross-border cooperation. We must do this as Europe. Does the Minister, together with his European colleagues, also make concrete plans to increase and link energy networks? In a discussion with the Commission, Commissioner Timmermans indicated that there would be an overview of all best practices from all different countries. I was wondering if the cabinet has received this. Then very briefly about the implementation problems. It has already been mentioned by several colleagues. At the moment, we lack 28,000 new technical people to meet the goals we have set ourselves. I wonder: what are the plans of the present cabinet to achieve this? Mr. Chairman. The Environment and Infrastructure Council indicates that the Growth Fund is partly close to the budget of the Mobility Fund and invests in the old economy. Can the Minister reflect on the message that the money from the Growth Fund goes to closing gaps in the budget? Two years ago, Chamberpieces showed that the Netherlands is lagging behind internationally around the growth of start-ups and scale-ups, especially in terms of early stage investments. What are the steps the cabinet has taken since then to ensure that start-ups and scale-ups can get this funding? Can the Secretary of State take this into account in her conversation with these start-ups about thresholds and bumps, which she promised last week? Mr. Chairman. Then digitalization. I know I'm over my time, but I think we've got plenty of minutes left at Volt, so I'm good to go. In the EU, we are moving towards a thriving data economy through the negotiations on the Data Regulation and the Data Governance Regulation. Negotiations on the Data Governance Regulation are currently at an advanced stage. The outcome will be important for Dutch start-ups, scale-ups and data-driven companies, inter alia because of the provisions on the so-called data sharing services that will help determine the future of industrial data markets. In order to create a fair and flourishing data market, two things are important in relation to data sharing services. One, no loopholes in the law. There must be a level playing field for large tech platforms and small tech companies, with equal rules for all players. Two: no bundling of services. Large tech platforms should not make the use of their data sharing services for consumers dependent on the use of other services on those tech platforms. Is the Dutch government prepared to put pressure on the Council and insist that there are no loopholes in the data governance regulation, and to ensure that large tech platforms cannot include consumers by combining data markets with other data services? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the RRF, because the committee meeting that was supposed to be about that did not go through today. Many countries are already working on this. We've talked about it before. For example, countries are engaged in loading infrastructures. In the budget of Economic Affairs we read about the official preparations. I was wondering if we could receive these official preparations. I also wonder, especially since it is all taking so long with the RRF, whether the amount we are getting is going to be used to pay for existing investments or whether it is actually going to be used to ensure that we can implement new innovations in the areas of climate, digitalisation, education and the cultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u248	Thank you. Mr De Jong has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u249	I hear Mr Dassen talking about the start-ups, the scale-ups and the difficulty with financing. We have also discussed this before in the committee debate. The previous Secretary of State also discussed this in detail. My question to Mr Dassen is: what exactly do you expect from the Minister? What exactly do you want to do with that funding gap you're sketching?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u250	One of the challenges facing start-ups is that they have to deliver a profitable business case in order to be eligible for funding. But sometimes you have to deal with innovations that are not necessarily profitable. I think we should also look in the Netherlands at how we can finance such innovations. We need to finance not only innovations that are already in place to become profitable, but also innovations that are still at the stage of doing so. We also hear a lot that there are many bumps and thresholds when applying for funding. Often it takes a lot of time and effort to apply for funding or you have to deal with such a high minimum amount of funding that you are not actually eligible for it. These are some of the things that we can really improve on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u251	I am glad that Mr Dassen mentioned this once again, because this has actually been discussed in the last committee debate on start-ups. The problems you're describing are well known. I'm also very curious as to what the reaction to that is from field-K. At least I hope to be able to work with you on solutions, because early funding is simply very important. We have a lot of knowledge and skills in the Netherlands when it comes to start-ups and scale-ups. It's important to work towards that. I have one more question for Mr Dassen. When it comes to start-ups and scale-ups, we see a difference from abroad. What's the difference? A lot of start-ups are taken over by foreign parties here, but the other way around that happens much less. Dutch start-ups, scale-ups or tech companies take over much less companies from abroad. I am curious to see how Mr Dassen looks at this. We must ensure that the knowledge and skills and earning capacity can remain in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u252	I think we should definitely see how we can make sure that we can help Dutch start-ups and scale-ups to explore abroad. I am not only talking about business across borders, but also about possible takeovers abroad. So I totally agree with that. To return to your earlier remark, I would like to take the gauntlet to see with you how we can shape the pre-financing together. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u253	Mr Dassen also mentioned the shortage of technical staff. I think he himself mentioned the number of 25,000. We need to break some taboos. What's Volt's vision? How are we going to train and make available the technical staff we need for the transitions, for digitisation and for start-ups in the coming years? Does Volt have any ideas about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u254	There are, of course, several programmes that we would like to strengthen, such as the current STEAM programme. We would like to improve this in order to ensure that training is in line with the technical future. I think Mr Amhaouch recognizes from work visits that MBO students often wonder where they end up. Sometimes an office job sounds attractive, but they could also end up with a company like ASML, a company in the top environment of innovation and development. I think we should take that image much better to the MBOs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u255	Thank you to Mr Dassen. I call Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the congratulations, the welcome and so on to the colleagues from GroenLinks and the VVD. Today we are discussing the budget of EZK. I would like to start very briefly with the Economic Affairs section. The news brings us to tonight's press conference. New measures have been announced. We were wondering whether this would lead to more support for, for example, the gyms, where things are reasonably panicked. It's a hard blow. I think this also applies to caterers and organizers of festivals. Are you going to help them? Are you going to help them? Or is that too premature? Maybe a little light can be shined on that after all. I'm just thinking about checking out the CoronaCheck app. That's what the gyms are gonna have to use people for, when they don't have them right now. The first is the topical and urgent debate. I would like to dwell on the budget. It is, of course, about Economic Affairs and Climate. These are two colossals who have a lot in common and are discussed in conjunction. That is right, because they are tied together with hands and feet. As JA21 we sometimes ask the question: are we talking about the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Netherlands or the Ministry of Economic Affairs, or Finance, of Europe? We sometimes ask this question because it is all determined in a European context. Today, we read in De Telegraaf, which was also one of the requests for a debate in today's organisation of work that the Netherlands can receive from the corona fund 6 billion, provided that the mortgage interest relief is met. Those are the pieces you'd rather not read in the morning. JA21 has a lot of trouble with this. So we'd like to know if that's true. Is this message correct and is there indeed a fifth party at the formation table, namely Europe? That is the first question I would like to ask on the basis of that message. Mr. Chairman. My group is also concerned about the economic impact of climate policy in the Netherlands. It has been said before, but we know that the influence of the Netherlands on the global climate is and remains very small. What we do or do not do in the Netherlands therefore does not lead to any noticeable difference in temperature development. What is very noticeable are the consequences for the ordinary Dutch. Because with the Climate Act and the Climate Agreement in hand, the Netherlands is transformed into a wind turbine park, probably the size of the entire province of Utrecht. The costs are also very high. We know from the removal of natural gas from a house that it is calculated on average at about €40,000 per house, according to the Economic Institute for Construction, of which more than half can no longer be recovered. What about the energy bill that is getting higher and higher for households? The cabinet will come up with compensation. Hail for that, that's fine. But it ignores the cause of the energy bill. That is, after all, the towering energy tax to enforce lower consumption and the storage of renewable energy. Then people with that money see a subsidy for a wind turbine in their backyard. Now, thanks to Commissioner Timmermans with Fit for 55, that account seems to be getting even higher. We talked about it. This package can lead to a further increase in the energy bill and fuel price to around €200 per household. Here you see the core of the problem that JA21 has with climate policy. That's the huge bill we're paying for it. That is what I am pleased to see in this debate on the left. That's just the loser of the trial. But we point out that this leads to serious costs for the average household in our country. Mr. Chairman. Just a minute about those wind turbines. In committee, I asked the Secretary of State: why do you continue to stomp wind farms from the ground while you are also carrying out research into the harmful effects of wind turbines? So that looks a bit like a doctor amputating, while he still has to be briefed on which leg it is. You didn't think that was a problem, because so many studies of effects had already been carried out. But last week, I read in the Dutch National Government, which is a specialist journal, which you also know, that RIVM's research into the health effects of wind turbines, which shows that these risks are well-seen, appears to have been covered with information from wind lobby publications. So no less than twenty such publications from the wind industry end up in RIVM reports, without the RIVM giving them any openness. And then Professor Van Hoof of the University of Twente says that in twelve cases there was a serious conflict of interest. So these are studies written or paid for by the wind lobby and minimise the health effects. We therefore consider that to be a serious matter. We also know from research by the LUMC that neighbors of wind turbines simply suffer from sleeping problems. People with heart problems are more likely to have a stroke or a heart attack if they live in the vicinity of wind turbines. 100 doctors have joined forces in Windalarm, which also ring the bell. They have already made critical comments on the findings of the RIVM. So my question to Secretary of State Yeşilgöz is: how serious do you think that is? What's your reaction? Do you share the view that this is very serious and that RIVM is precisely a party that should be above all appearances? Are you prepared to stop all developments around new wind farms as a result? These harmful effects of wind turbines are not limited to humans. We know the Norwegian figures showing that one wind turbine kills about twenty birds a year. But marine life is also seriously affected. Recently, research by Deltares showed that the entire food chain in the North Sea is being disrupted as a result of wind turbines at sea. This has a major impact on, for example, the fish population. This is also a green policy. These are also issues affected by climate policy. There are consequences. Do you know this investigation? How do you reconcile this research with the advice of the Steering Group on Extragive to generate 45 terawatts at sea for the needs of industry, in addition to the 35 terawatts on land in the context of the RES? Why is it perceptible to us as if this could be done without any problems, when it seriously affects marine life, regardless of any other drawbacks? Mr. Chairman. While we are sacrificing our prosperity on the green altar, China is still going through its terrible course. I read an excellent interview with British economist Rupert Darwall this weekend. He specializes in the history of climate conferences. It's very readable. Have you read it? Not yet, okay? To the question of who is the winner of the Paris Climate Agreement, Darwall answers in full: China, big time. I'm going to continue in Dutch. He says, translated: "Everyone is focusing on China's promise that it is heading towards a peak in emissions, but the construction of coal power plants is going on and on. The problem is that the West believes that China is seriously involved in the process. But it is based on flagrant violations of the rules. The cheater wins." I'd like a response. How do you look at that when something like that is said by someone who has reasonably specialised in that phenomenon? Without fleeing in answers about joint responsibilities, agreements and the future of our children, can you give a concrete indication of the point of closing coal power stations here, while 600 are being built up there? Mr Kops and I often agree in this connection. This is the question of questions, isn't it? How is this compatible? I'd like a response. For JA21 there is a very important alternative if we have the end of fossil in sight. That's nuclear power, atomic energy. Scenario studies are being conducted instead of going through them. We see a French lobby to add nuclear energy to taxonomy in Brussels. That is not supported at first. In short, the enthusiasm isn't really dripping off. My group does. I've been to Borssele, perhaps just like colleagues of yours. It made me happy. I see that the Secretary of State has become happy too, yes. You've been there a week for me. They were also very happy, because you were happy again. But the point is, it's the future. 'Cause for 10 billion, you're building two new nuclear power plants. They've actually already calculated the plot. That's just there to do. I think that Borssele's support area is big, too. You really don't have to organize a lot of neighborhood nights for that. So you can power 1.3 million households on an area of two football fields. I just said you should put 4,500 wind turbines on the total surface of the province of Utrecht for the same amount of electricity. Nuclear waste It has already been mentioned as being neatly stored there in a bunker. I don't remember if it was in an orange or yellow box. Orange. E=mc. It's safe there. They also say: you can land a plane on it; nothing happens at all. There is room for a massively increased production of nuclear waste for decades. The underground final storage doesn't have to be ready for another 100 years, while we don't really know what to do with all these huge wicks, the wind turbine blades. Actually, it's apple egg, you'd say. That's where the future lies. It is ironic that it is always about support for that nuclear waste, and I hear that in the debate again, when I hear less about the support for wind turbines, and especially about the mountains of those blades. In short, JA21 is clear: the existing nuclear reactor in Borssele must remain open and there must be at least two new ones. I'd like a response. Then I'm going to see the Minister, who, by the way, really stays off his phone all night. I just want to say that. I followed him all night. He didn't check his phone. That's right. That can be said at this time, can't it? Not only is he attentive, but he's not interested. Then I come to the Minister with a question about the entrepreneurs. Maybe he's gonna check his phone now. At JA21, we think that the VVD has not necessarily served the entrepreneurs fantasticly over the past ten years. We see a nursery of new rules and laws that have come. SMEs, in particular, are affected and have been informed of this to our group. They figured it out. The regulatory burden for SMEs has increased by 5 billion to a total of 20 billion euros a year, mind you. It drives people crazy. It drives these employers crazy. Think of the twenty legal requirements that Sira Consulting has calculated before you can hire an employee. Nor do I find it surprising that 70% of entrepreneurs do not want to recruit new staff, because of all this red tape. This is what SMEs tell us. Still apart from the jungle of rules and conditions, it is a noose around the neck of the economy if you actually make them very difficult to undertake in that way. Question to the Minister: do you share the view that the forthcoming cabinet should really do something about this and set a tough target? You just have to set a goal: we're just gonna take that much off. You have to say: the regulatory burden is getting so much less for SMEs, for example 20%; boom! That's what Peter Bex of Sira says in The Financial Daily. Otherwise, we will consider a second-term motion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the aid packages. I've been talking about corona for a while. We may not have always made the same choices as the cabinet, but we have paid tribute to the speed with which the aid packages were triggered, as I said to your predecessor after the crisis broke out. I think the way we got through that crisis in that respect is good. Many entrepreneurs have made use of it, but from 1 October the repayment of the debts started. We have a question about that. It'll take five years. With many entrepreneurs that debt hangs around the neck like a millstone, like a sword of Damocles. Is the Minister prepared to investigate how this debt now affects entrepreneurs? Can we, for example, provide more air with a different way of dealing with these debts and provide security of existence? Mr President, I will conclude. JA21 makes fundamentally different choices on a number of points than this cabinet. We will therefore continue to work every day against the current too one-sided climate policy. JA21 deals with lower burdens, fewer rules and more freedom for entrepreneurs. JA21 goes for a government that knows what to do, but also knows what not to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u257	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u258	Mr Eerdmans and I often discuss the climate position of JA21 in committee debates on climate and energy. In any case, climate change is not denied. In particular, it is a question of whether the Netherlands can make a real contribution in relation to the great China. In my opinion, we simply differ on the contribution that a small country can make through innovations. As far as the energy mix is concerned, it is also clear to me that in many respects we have a similar energy mix in mind, with nuclear energy and being more critical of wind on land. Let's take a look at the industry. I can't wait to see how my colleague Eerdmans looks at that. We are now talking quite widely in the Chamber about green industrial policy. That can also be a future earning ability and we reduce CO. Is this also a form of climate policy that JA21 could support or on which JA21 would at least like to contribute in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u259	Yes. The first is that we say that we do not want to change the climate. You have to adapt to the climate. That is the core of JA21's starting point. We are realistic in what we see coming to the world and how the world changes. You really don't have to doubt in our minds that we see that man plays a part in that. However, we see a difference when it comes to whether we in the Netherlands are going to change the climate. That is not what we are doing. Nor can we, because we are too minimal for that. That doesn't change the fact that you're going into other sources of energy. It is a good thing that companies are very keen on this. In that respect, I have already told you that we share that. I'm from Rotterdam. The harbour block is, of course, one big engine for innovation. Castelein and others are working very hard on that, so I am very much in favour of that. But we are watching over the wallet of the Dutch taxpayer in terms of what the government is doing and what the people are knocking out of their wallets. Then you're talking about the operations "off the gas," which we're very critical of. We are talking about a new energy vision. Nuclear energy must prevail. At the same time, I find it very, very fine when people choose to change themselves. If they like to put a solar panel on their roof, that's totally fine. But we guard against the problem of wind turbine and solar fields in the Netherlands, because that doesn't get us anywhere and b is a very ugly prospect for the layout of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u260	I want to get it more concrete anyway. On Thursday we have the second term. Then we will also come up with proposals from the VVD, also to make green industrial policy more concrete, whether it be hydrogen, the opening up of Chemelot in the area of infrastructure around sustainability, but also other issues. Is JA21 going to look at that constructively? Or do you say in advance that we are not participating in such proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u261	"Constructive right" is our middle name. That's clear. That's why we're here. So "at your service," I'd say. We'd like to come by and definitely want to think along. We are a realistic but critical party. We are known for our constructive attitude, here and outside. So I'll see you soon. We'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u262	This brings you to the end of your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u263	Thank you. Then I wish the cabinet good luck...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u264	...the answer. He'll be here Thursday. But we are not yet at the end of the first term of office. I call Mr Bishop SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u265	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to join those colleagues who have complimented Mr Van Strien on his initiative. I also have a great deal of appreciation for this, as I have already said in my personal congratulations. As a colleague, I would also like to say on behalf of my colleague, Mr Stoffer, because I am replacing him here because of a flu. Mr Stoffer is currently at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u266	I can hear you thinking, but no, it's a real flu. He's been tested negative, so don't worry. Dear people, in the meantime, my clock is ticking. Let me just point out to the President! Mr. Chairman. The title of the previous coalition agreement was: Trust in the future. If you're asking citizens now if they have faith in the future, I'm not talking about the question "do you have faith in the government?', because there have also been some shocking figures about this, and you will hear that there are concerns about the high gas bill, about climate change and about the whole climate in the Netherlands. Entrepreneurs have concerns, among other things, about the regulatory burden, about the corona effects, about cyber risks. They also wonder, either personally as a household or as a company: how am I going to engage in this energy transition? Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of work to be done. In our opinion, the basis of the transition and of trust must be to work for trust and support. The population must be included in the processes. That's a slow process. Sometimes you're gonna want to take really quick steps to get home, but that's not gonna work, really. We will have to take the different population groups into the processes in a responsible way. Climate and Climate and Energy exploration generate a lot of discussion. The government wants billions of euros extra for sustainable energy production, but there you already have such a question: where is the back-up for regional grid operators to strengthen the energy grid? Also listen to the criticism of the design of the SDE++. The Court wants system costs of fluctuating energy sources, such as wind farms, no longer to be ignored. Room and Planning Bureau also advocate a separate budget for sustainable heat. These options now have to be reviewed, while reducing network investment and conversion losses. Mr. Chairman. More and more energy cooperatives also focus on the use of environmental heat, such as aquathermie. That, too, deserves an incentive. This way you can take all kinds of initiatives, involve people and make them part of their own process. In addition to the SDE++, hedging of financial risks is required. Does the Secretary of State ensure that heat projects are also entitled to the energy co-operative development fund? Last year, despite the budget increase to 92 million euros, the Cooperative Energy Grant Scheme had been transferred in a short period of time. There was a great deal of interest in it and yet the amount for the coming year is back at EUR 37 million, the starting amount last year. We don't get it. And that while these projects do not have the disadvantages of large solar parks, fit well in the net and excite entire residential areas. This is how you involve people in the transition, because you cannot force them as a government, unless you have dictatorial powers. None of us do. The specific question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to use the additional SDE money to raise this budget ceiling. Then there's agriculture and horticulture. When it comes to energy, too, the accusing finger often goes to our food producers. Then I'll look at V-K. As the planning agency writes, the high ODE levy on electricity electrification and emission reduction in greenhouse horticulture hinders. We've pointed that out before. The electricity charge in the third disc should be structurally significantly reduced. It is a good thing that the cabinet is spending extra money on delivering CO to this sector. Several waste power plants are working on projects for this purpose. However, the main bottleneck is the CO levy. For CO storage an exemption applies, but not for CO utilisation. We need to take another look at that. Is the Secretary of State willing to change this? I see opportunities for simultaneously tackling nitrogen and methane emissions in agriculture and producing biogas. That's three birds with one stone. The concrete question to the cabinet is whether they are also on the retina in the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the line pressure. Entrepreneurs play an important role not only in the energy transition but throughout society. They deserve back support, space and predictable policies. Industry sees the regulatory burden increase and advocates strengthening the SME test and the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review. I couldn't agree more. How's the cabinet gonna pick this up? Entrepreneurs, among other things, are opposed to the adoption of technical standards by NEN Standards Committees. Innovations are sometimes blocked and small market players feel disadvantaged. A bottleneck is that companies have to pay for participation in standard committees. In other European countries there is financial support for this; not here. This hinders the balanced composition of standards committees. Is the Minister prepared to look into this and arrange funding for it? Then there is the financing of SMEs. Healthy SMEs still find it difficult to obtain funding between a quarter million and 5 million euros. The Entrepreneurship Committee calls for a fund to strengthen own funds. My question to the Minister is: what are the opportunities for start-up funding from the Growth Fund? A point about the Digital Trust Center. Cybercrime costs business billions of euros a year. This is in stark contrast to the budget cut for the Digital Trust Center of 2.5 million euros. They shouldn't be doing less but more? I ask the Minister to bring the Digital Trust Center to full power to inform companies about cyber threats. Mr. Chairman. Just a little more. We believe that 19 million for dealing with complex earthquake problems in Groningen farms is absolutely inadequate. I would like to ask the Minister what the longer-term perspective is for this. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday was Reform Day, a day when Protestants commemorate how the Bible was removed from the dust and touched hearts in the sixteenth century. A modern word for reform is "transition." You can't save a policy paper or it's in there. It is true that we need to take action to make our energy supply and environmental management more sustainable, among other things. The message of Reform Day is: do not opt for coercion, but for conviction. Look not primarily at institutions, but at citizens and at entrepreneurs. Do not opt for the 24/7 economy, but for Sunday rest. Or: Keep the eye up; then we may have confidence in the future. That is why the title of the SGP election programme was in the last elections: In confidence. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u267	Thank you. Mr Boucke has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u268	Mr Bishops and I had a little debate earlier. I was looking for where we can find each other. I think I found it. Mr Bishops spoke about the Cooperative Energy Grant Scheme. He indicated that we should continue successful arrangements, especially for the sake of acceptance. In my speech, perhaps Mr Bishops missed that at the time, I myself made a plea for it, and I also indicated that I would like to come up with a proposal or an amendment to raise it so that we can continue this successful arrangement. I can count on the support of Mr Bishop on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u269	We are always prepared to look favourably at points where we may be able to move together. I did not refer so much to Mr Boucke's proposals as to the undefined term 'political leadership'. What we find each other on is that we are looking for support and instruments that make people interested and move. If that's what you mean by political leadership and if D66 wants to fill it in that way, it's not that hard for us to come to an agreement. So let's talk about that specific amendment and see if we can make it a good thing together that we can make everyone here in the Chamber happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u270	This is the beginning of a nice collaboration between D66 and the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u271	Well, we've done that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u272	I know, I know. However, I would like to put one final question to Mr Bishops. In my speech, I also tried to point out that, as far as we are concerned, political leadership is always linked to the content. In my case, as a climate spokesman, I pointed out that we must show leadership on climate. This means setting ambitious targets and ensuring that they include a package of measures or actions, in mobility, in the built environment, but also in industry, so that we meet the goals. My question to Mr Bishops is: what are you going to do about climate change in the coming years to show that leadership? I am asking you very specifically. What goals do you pursue? What measures do you propose? How are you going to show leadership on climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u273	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u274	You may, by the way, leave out the last s of my name. I appreciate you giving me such a solemn name, but without the last s. Thank you. That is a question that is rightly asked to me. Or not really right, because that was not exactly where it was at the time in that little interrupting debate. With us, leadership is that you know you can't do it on your own, that you need international cooperation, that you need to approach it in its entirety and that you need to work towards an energy mix, especially to reduce dependence on others. You must also have the courage to take steps to subsidise research that may lead to new energy sources. Thorium has gone over the table a few times, and of course hydrogen has gone over the table. You need to take steps in that. The big trick, the most important tool I have to say, is getting society with you. You do this by bringing all kinds of innovations into the reach of citizens. You don't do that by setting up large wind farms or sunbathing grounds, but you do because of those energy corporations. That may be small-scale, but if that expands like an oil stain, then you're out of a lot of discussions and objection procedures. You just get a positive attitude from people who say: okay, this gets us something too. It is also good for nature and the environment. You have to work from a clear vision, involve people and thus achieve democratic decision-making. For me, that is the core of the leadership that is needed here. You shouldn't impose it from above, like: we want this, we want that, we want sister and we want this. That won't work in the long run. Mr. Chairman. I think I've explained it enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u276	I thank you as much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u277	Mr Azarkan van DENK has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u278	Mr President, thank you. Let me also join with the compliments to Mr Van Strien for his maiden speech. It was a good story. I would also like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State. It's the first time they've done an economic and climate budget for both of them. We almost forgot, but last year there was a whole other team. So I welcome both of them. Mr. Chairman. What is the economic situation? On paper, that looks good. In two years' time, there is 7.5% economic growth. Unemployment is very low, but 3.5%. There aren't many bankruptcies, they're barely there. We're seeing a nice lack of funding. It's not that bad. Fortunately, we do not have the horror scenario of the scenarios that were in sight in 2020. The cabinet is also very satisfied with this, but it forgets to mention that this was financed by the taxpayer. That's the honest story. I've heard that a few times today. There are 80 billion in the support packages. As a result of tonight's stories and the press conference, I am also concerned about what this means. I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. If you have 7.5% economic growth in two years, you can expect something of it in your wallet as a citizen. But then you'll come out cheated. Because that's not the case. In fact, we saw in the Prince's Daypieces that the purchasing power was 0,0% or 0,1%. We also know that these purchasing power calculations are rarely made. They are usually followed by the purchasing power hangover. But we saw it very quickly this time, because because of the high energy prices it dropped 0.1% to -1.6%. That means we have 7.5% economic growth in two years. But for our citizens, that meant -1.6% on average. Fortunately, we saw last week's repair package. That led to this being watered down, but of course we still see that citizens can simply buy less than last year and next year less than this year, at least if you look at what they have to spend. Mr. Chairman. I am also saying something about inflation. It's been 20 years since we've been dealing with huge inflation. Inflation is a little bit like the corona infections. Once inflation starts, it is just very difficult to stop. At Prinsjesdag we assumed an inflation rate of 2% for 2021 and 2022, but in September prices were already 2.7% higher. At European level, we assumed 3.4%, but in October it was 4.1%. So the prices are getting out of hand. Everything becomes much more expensive: gas, energy, petrol, groceries, care premium, toys, airline tickets, building materials and even Netflix. What isn't? House prices are also skyrocketing. I'd like to ask the Minister how he looks at this high inflation? Is this also a matter of concern to the cabinet? I see the Minister taking action, ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said about the climate, so it is also good to put Mr Blok to work. I would like to know the impact on Dutch competitiveness, but also on consumer spending and perhaps on economic growth. Does this mean that consumers are going to spend less or that they are going to spend more? We saw an extremely high rise in gas prices in September and October, even up to the level above €160 per megawatt hour. That's never been shown before. Our citizens are already aware of the consequences. The first power company, with 90,000 connections, is bankrupt. People have already paid in the time when they have used little energy, namely between March and about October. Right in October, the company goes bankrupt. This means that a number of citizens will not get their money back. I wonder what the role of the government is in this, perhaps through the ACM. Does the Minister see a role for himself in this to see how he can protect citizens? I would also like to know from the Minister what is going on in that force field. How many more power companies are on the verge of falling over? What measures are being taken to combat this? Mr. Chairman. It is of course very nice that we talk about the climate. I'll get to that later. However, I note that entrepreneurs and especially SMEs are very concerned about the future of the next month. That really has to do with the support packages. They are worrying on three points in particular. It concerns the refund of the NOW, the refund of the TVL and deferred taxes. However, I would like to remind you that, as far as taxation is concerned, the government assumes that in October 2022 we are so far away that Corona is behind us and that no further delay can be made. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister whether that is still realistic. Mr. Chairman. What part of the total 80 billion of corona aid will eventually have to be repaid? Is it true that this is about 20 billion? We have, of course, seen that a lot of entrepreneurs have not met the agreement to deliver the costs through the RVO. They're just too late. There's a delay for that now. What is the expectation now? A month? I'd like a response from the Minister. Then, of course, we still have a number of branches to deal with. I mention the travel industry, but also the catering industry. They're largely bankrupt. They have too many negative abilities. How are they going to survive that tsunami of refunds? Mr. Chairman. It has been recalled before: are these rising corona figures again affecting new aid packages? Does the cabinet consider the reopening of the NOW, the TVL, the Tozo, the TONK and all other packages with one new abbreviation after the other? Mr. Chairman. The climate. There has, of course, been a wide-ranging debate on climate and energy policy in the past few weeks, but also in the committees. I have the pleasure of presiding over that often. Much has been said about COP26, which hopefully comes to a good result next week. I call Fit for 55, the PBL overdrafts, the National Energy Exploratory and the Climate and Energy Exploratory. It is, of course, a serious problem. That can't be denied anymore. We see drought, forest fires, extreme wind and rain. They're all signs on the wall. It's been told here a number of times, but that's what you get when you're one of the last speakers. In South Limburg and Leersum, of course, we have seen floods and extreme wind coughs. That makes it very tangible. One of the central questions is: how are we going to pay for that energy transition? In the medium and long term, too, there will be a new tank with costs. It's caused by that energy transition. The calculations of these costs still change, but it is certain that the account will be fairly high. We have seen that a number of years ago the EIB indicated the need for 435 billion for the built-up environment alone. We have also seen the adjustments to the energy infrastructure. I've been working lately. You can see that it's urgent: a lot of power stations don't get it processed anymore. It's going to cost about €71 billion. That means hundreds of billions of euros. Mr. Chairman. We have, of course, also seen that with the Climate Law and the Climate Note, we still do not have realistic targets that can be achieved. The social costs involved are high. This means that you have to invest between €20,000 and €50,000 per house. The question is whether that can be paid for by everyone. What is the state's contribution to this? I think we should also look closely at the usefulness and need of forced isolation of all 8 million homes in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The problem is, of course, that the European Union contributes only about 10% to global warming. That means that other parties have to participate. Of course we must show leadership in this, but there is no point if the other 90% does not make sufficient efforts. We see in the Paris Convention and the annual COP conferences that parties have so far failed to create a global mechanism to bring credibility to all countries in the world. Of course, that's a huge task. But that also means that there can be a moment when the conclusion must be drawn that global warming cannot be stopped from within the EU alone. And that means: emphasis on climate adaptation. It means that we really need to look at raising the sea and river dikes, dams and locks, greening roofs and gardens, and building water reservoirs. Climate policy must also be realistic in particular. The costs must also be distributed fairly. For DENK, the starting point is climate justice and climate realism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u279	Thank you to Mr Azarkan. Finally, Mr Van Haga has the floor this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u280	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is responsible for the eighteenth economy of this world. The cabinet is responsible for 2 million entrepreneurs, who provide more than 4 million jobs and earn two thirds of our income. But instead of applause, a nasty Marxist wind blows through the Netherlands. There is no room for ambition, growth and innovation, but there has been a dislike of entrepreneurs, and thus a disapproval of success. The account of each government-induced crisis is deposited with Dutch industry: the account of the credit crisis, the corona crisis, the nitrogen crisis, the housing crisis and now the climate crisis. As a result, confidence in the government and our directors has fallen to a low point. It is important that the government is reliable. This means that rules should not change continuously, that an entrepreneur can invest for longer periods and that there is also the possibility to harvest. This means that both the administrative burden and the financial burden will not become so high that entrepreneurs simply stop out of despair and frustration. This also means that there must be a fair playing field, and that is not the case at present. Chinese companies can quietly storm our market with state aid, foreign Internet companies like locusts eat up our economy, while our own companies can no longer get funding from our own banks because of the Wwft. And this cabinet is there and looking at it. According to SMEs in the Netherlands, the increase in regulatory pressure costs 1.15 billion a year. The Dutch government has become a Kafkaesque waterhead, which has completely lost sight of who really works and who really pays taxes. Therefore, the following questions to the Minister. What has the Ministry of EZK done in the past year to reduce the burden, to reduce regulatory pressure and bureaucracy, to improve funding opportunities and to combat false competition from China? Recently, Mr Palland's own-initiative paper on family businesses was discussed. Again the question to the Minister: is he really not concerned about the fact that the company succession scheme, abbreviated the BOR, is the worst of all our neighbouring EU countries? For BVNL, the solution is very simple: simply remove the inheritance and gift tax completely. These taxes are the model of jealousy and undermine solidarity between generations. By the way, this cabinet is grooving in jealousy taxes. I call the dga tax, the home forfait, the villataks, the ozb, the box-3 tax that got out of hand and the fact that the dga itself was not eligible for any corona support. And that while the tax burden in the Netherlands is already among the highest in the world. Within the OECD countries, we are in a sad tenth place with a tax burden of as much as 39%. Can the Minister indicate how many companies and exactly which companies have moved abroad in the past year? Mr. Chairman. In the past employers were still somewhat protected by employers' organisations. Now VNO-NCW has long been a colourful collection of left-wing woke bureaucrats who had elevated inclusivity and climate to the highest goal, but the recent statement by VNO-NCW that she does like QR codes on the workplace is truly repulsive. If you're really gonna go after the government and her ventriloquist dolls at the Security Council without any support, you're gonna lose all authority as far as I'm concerned. I hope that entrepreneurs do not participate in this harmful nonsense, but I would like to know from the Minister: how much damage will the QR code cause on the workplace to missed productive hours? What about at the gyms? What about the museums? What about the amusement parks? Is this calculated as well as at the time the damage of the lockdown, in which the cabinet destroyed net 520,000 healthy years of life? If so, can we look forward to this report soon, or should we wobble it again, as usual? Mr. Chairman. The Economic Affairs and Climate budget is perhaps a good time to ask why these are not actually two separate ministries. Economics is about our earning ability and climate is a cost, where one almost religiously throws money to prevent the world from perishing. We don't need calculations anymore, so we subsidise without thinking biomass plants, wind farms, solar fields and the completely absurd capture of CO, CCS. Real solutions, such as nuclear power stations and the thorium plants mentioned above, remain completely out of the picture. We make our homes natural gas-free and stop production in Groningen instead of producing and compensating the Groningers properly. In the name of the self-invented nitrogen problem, non-working nitrogen models shut down the construction and threaten to expropriate farmers. You'll only be the 14th generation farmer and face a political official who has the power to destroy your life. So-called for the climate, but bad for the environment, and ultimately also bad for our economy, for employment and for our prosperity. Finally, Mr President. We need a small, reliable government that ensures a stable and fair playing field. We should be at the forefront of this process by allowing the establishment climate to be better here than in other EU countries. We should be at the forefront by nurturing our gas infrastructure and remaining a natural gas country over the next ten years. We should be at the forefront of the energy transition by, for example, opening the first thorium plant. Leading in the interests of the Netherlands! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u281	There is a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u282	Mr Van Haga always does his best for entrepreneurs and has extremely little speaking time, so I give him a little more time. I would like to ask you what else you would have liked to say. We still have a few interruptions left, so I'd like to give them to you. So my first question is: what did you forget to say or what did you not have time for? I have another question about VDL. I was running out of time myself. Thank you for quoting China, because that was also in my speech, but I couldn't make it anymore: false competition from China. Maybe we can pull this together with a motion. Unbridled things are allowed. If you want to buy a European product there, you pay your blue, while they're tearing up that cheap, carcinogenic mess on the market. I'd like to hang out with you in that. I have a good plan. Perhaps the minister could be the director in that. We have the best car designers. They're everywhere. Renault is the best, with Audi, with BMW, all Dutch everywhere. We have the best automotive training in engineering. I call IVA Driebergen, no matter what I've done, commercial. We have TU Delft. Hydrogen, according to all car experts, is likely to become the future for emission-free driving. I think that together with the Chamber and the Minister, we should bring all these parties together to see if we can put an affordable Dutch product on the market, as a government vehicle but also for Jan with the hat, so that everyone can get an affordable hydrogen-powered car. It's for the future, but we need to get started on that right now. And don't forget my first interruption. You can go ahead and say what you'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u283	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Graus. I hope that Mr Van Haga will be able to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u284	Speaking time sponsored by the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u285	Thank you. This interruption was longer than my own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u286	But I would like to thank Mr Graus for this. Mr Stoffer has done it before. As a splitter, you don't normally get speaking time, but that's not really the case here. I have simply been given generous speaking time and the President has also allowed me a minute to get over it. My colleague Ephraim will have to return this later, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u287	We moved on to the China file together last year. I think that's when we filed a motion on VDL together. Let's not have too bad a story here. The Netherlands has an incredible advantage in many areas. We have fantastic engineering universities. I am really pleased that I have seen a number of engineers here today. I apologize to my brother of the CDA sahbi sadiki....................................................................................................................................................... I just forgot to mention it. Sorry, Mustafa. I really said everything. Now, if I'm going to say something about China, I'm going to repeat the whole China note I wrote at the VVD. We can discuss this separately. It was a good time. I think we should end this evening. Mr. Graus, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u288	Thank you to Mr Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-02-tweedekamer-20.u289	We will continue this debate on Thursday and then we will listen to the rulers. I'm closing the meeting.
