ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, as well as the MPs and viewers at home. I would like to agree with the Members that we should make four questions or comments to each other and six to the Cabinet. And please keep the interruptions short and powerful. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In these dark days before Christmas we would like to look forward to a cozy, together Christmas. That's gonna be different. We will have to put our hands on it together and make the most of it in the coming period, no matter how frustrating that may be for everyone, for young people, for the elderly, but above all for those entrepreneurs who see the hard work go up in smoke. A lot of people didn't see this coming. Mr. Chairman. The desperation and misery that the entrepreneurs now have to deal with, came well into play at EenVandaag with the entrepreneur Baukje Haarsma from Leeuwarden. The recently squeezed support package was nice, but it wasn't enough. Because if you have to close fourteen days of the last quarter 2021 and the first fourteen days of the first quarter 2022, then in some cases you will not be eligible for support if you look at it quarterly. The package we have just presented is an improvement in our view, but we are still dealing with start-ups and poignant cases that are just outside. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? It cannot be that entrepreneurs are the child of the account every time and that we do not support generously. Entrepreneurs put their pensions in place and often have no income themselves. Mr. Chairman. Then the boosters. We understand that the Omikron variant could not be taken into account in September, October or November, but we started too late anyway. We understand it's a lot of work for the G.D.D., but the pace has to go up. The army is being deployed more, and that's good. Why don't we stop waiting 15 minutes? Why all the red tape? Can't we do it later? And we get too many signals that people don't get through it, that the appointment line is unreachable and that the site for the appointments is sometimes flat. We also get signals from people who want to help, but don't get to work. There are general practitioners who would like to help, but who can't. There are people who work at the GGD, but who can't continue because of hassle around temporary and permanent contracts. Fix that is my call, especially since the motto is boosters, boosters, boosters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u4	Why did the VVD support the shop closure and the disposal of all stocks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u5	Supported? I don't quite understand what Mrs. Agema means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u6	I didn't hear you say you didn't support it. So why do you support closing the shops?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u7	Because I saw, this morning at the technical briefing but also before, that we are faced with a huge risk of very high levels of infection caused by omikron and that we need to take some drastic measures. I would have preferred not to take these measures, but we do support the fact that they are being taken now, so as to relieve the burden of care for the future and to ensure that we can resist this wave again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u8	There's no evidence that shop closures work. However, there is evidence that, for example, mouth caps work, that not meeting each other works and that very good ventilation works. But there's no evidence that shop closures work, at least, I didn't see that. In addition, I wonder how long the VVD will continue to close shops instead of structurally increasing intensive care capacity and hospital capacity. That must be confirmed by Mr Kuipers this morning. How many shop closures and how many lockdowns will the VVD support? When does the VVD start doing what it has to do: investing in healthcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u9	Maybe this first. I think it's clear that if you reduce people's contacts and movements, there will be less transmission of the virus. With all the reductions in contacts and movements, I think you can indicate that. Then when it comes to ic capacity. I want to raise that, of course. Over the past two years, the cabinet has made 500 million extra available on the scale plan. Is that what we're dealing with? No, definitely not. I will come back to that later in my story, because we will have to prepare for future winters and adapt the long-term policy to the fact that we have to live with this virus for a number of years to come. I certainly do not exclude any sector, not retailing, not catering and schools at all. But I think we have a responsibility and sometimes we have to take a difficult decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u10	The VVD has, of course, dropped its responsibility terribly; already in the years before the crisis when it comes to investing in healthcare, and all over the past two years. There is no structural investment in intensivecare capacity. There are more sectors in which structural investment is needed, and the coalition agreement does not stand out. On the contrary, we see more general agreements and more cuts in health care. My question to the VVD is once again: when will the VVD repent and will it make structural investments in care and stop using such panic measures? There's no evidence for closing stores. There's evidence that mouth caps work, there's evidence that ventilation works, there's evidence that it works when we don't meet at all. But we see, for example, in the Apple mobility data and in the Google mobility data that reducing movements does not work in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u11	I think the measures have only entered into force on Saturday. I assume that's what we'll be seeing in those dates in the next few days. And then the other story. In recent years and for the coming period, we consider it important to reduce the increase in healthcare costs. In the coming years there will be real additional investment. If you look at the series contained in the coalition agreement and the final reversal as you call it, it will eventually be realized in 2053. This is a movement that we want to set in motion to provide appropriate care, to ensure that not everything happens in the hospital, but that you can also be chronically ill at home; that also the general practitioner and the first line can do a number of things. I think that's better for the patient, and that's a movement we want to get going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u12	What an incredibly weak story. There is no investment in structurally increasing intensive care capacity, there is no investment in hospital care. The main agreement for next year with a zero volume growth limit stands. In the coalition agreement, a new broad agreement is agreed. There's another 1.5 billion out of care, and the highest batter will come to the hospitals. There's no money reserved for catching up. The Minister of VWS refers to the insurers, but of course they are going to raise that again in the premiums. There's nothing at all. There is nothing in the coalition agreement for a structural increase in intensive care capacity, not for hospitals, nor for general practitioners, nor for home care. Nothing at all. How often is the VVD going to lock up the country, close shops and close schools before the VVD realizes that there is a need for structural investment in healthcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u13	I think Mrs Agema should tell the whole story. If you look at the rising trend of what we all invest in care, it will still go up, including the proposals as they stand in the coalition agreement. I understand the need to invest in ic capacity in the future too. There is an amount for pandemic preparedness, and that includes, as far as we are concerned, the ic. I also think you should look at a flexible shell at the ICUs, where you can exchange more people so you can scale up. Again, I've said it before, it's no fun to be on ice. You can also see that in other countries people are running at the borders of the amount of ic capacity. Then they still have to take action. I think we should look at what is needed in the coming years for this winter, which has also been done over the past period by investing 500 million in the scheme. But you didn't do that one-two-three, because you're gonna have to train people, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you. There are a number of follow-up interruptions. You've been through your interruptions. Mr Van Haga first, then Mr van der Staaij and then Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u15	That whole book of measures, the temporary increases, reads a bit like a Kafka novel. It's full of very strange rules and absurd contradictions. The absurdity doesn't really have any boundaries. I'll submit a few to the VVD. If you want to eat in a road restaurant along the main road network, you can, but if that road restaurant is a little off the main network, you can't. Then only take-away meals are allowed. For top athletes, the dressing rooms are open. For amateur sportsmen, they have to stay closed. Amateur sportsmen of 17 years and younger are allowed to play outdoors in a club context. 18-year-old amateur athletes can't do that. Can you still follow it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u16	I'm sure I can follow. There are, of course, always, as we have seen over the past period, sometimes things that are not comparable to each other, but I think that a number of practical solutions have also been looked at. If you're on your way and that must be urgent, the advice is of course to stay home as much as possible. Can you compare that to other stores? Yeah, you can. But I also think it is logical that we should look at practical solutions of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u17	Tanking is of course quite another thing than having dinner in a road restaurant. Take another example. An outdoor playground may be open if there is no profit. What kind of absurd measure is that? A non-profit outdoor playground may be open. Who is going to maintain that and why has this absurd measure been introduced? Why is that distinction made? I understand perfectly if a measure is put in place for something that is effective, proportionate, but makes a distinction between profit and non-profit, I do not understand. Can Mrs De Vries explain what that is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u18	I think that we have been talking about sports and movement very often here in debates lately. So I think it's a good thing that children can normally go to a playground of a community association. I know that Mr Van Haga would not want to take any action at all. That could be a choice. You can make that choice. It wouldn't be my choice. Then you try to look a little bit at what still makes sense and what can. There will always be things that may be difficult to explain. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u19	That we do not want any measures at all is indeed fine. It is now a question of the measures that lie ahead. These measures are absurd and illogical. I wonder why we are going to bully entrepreneurs by, for example, closing commercial playgrounds and just leaving non-commercial playgrounds open. That doesn't make any sense. That can't be explained. Neither does Mrs De Vries in her answer. I agree with Mrs Agema. In the end, it's just the failure of this cabinet. It's the failure of this coalition. It's the failure of scaling up the ic capacity. That didn't happen. We've been two years. There's not a speck of a solution. That's how we get these kind of absurd documents that you're gonna have to go all the way through. They've probably been put together by a lot of officials with the best intentions, but they don't make sense anymore. No one understands this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u20	I do not think there are any easy solutions anymore. We do, however, insist that we sometimes have to make some difficult decisions. We're not running away from that. I don't think it would have worked out at all if we had done what the Van Haga Group would have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u21	I hear entrepreneurs say: we understand that under these circumstances we should not get people hut in the shopping streets, but we would be so helped if you made shopping by appointment possible for that big bookstore, that clothing store or that furniture store. Does the VVD support the plea to ask the cabinet to look very closely at whether there is no more possibility there than just open or closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u22	As soon as there is room for that, I would really like to look at what we might be able to fine tune in that area, but I think that the uncertainty is still too great to say. In addition to the shops, there are many other sectors and industries where we might also want to offer a little more space. I do not really see room for that on the basis of the figures that are now available. I do hope that the cabinet will continue to monitor how it is now with omikron. Maybe it's going to be okay and maybe we can give some space to certain sectors? Yes, you could think of such a solution. When I hear all the experts like this, again this morning in the technical briefing, I notice that there are still far too many uncertainties to give some space, however much I would like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u23	But is it just a matter of "there's no room for it"? Or is it a matter of 'we're not prepared for that' and is it right to see if we can fine-tune it now? Isn't it too easy to think "we're done with the whole vaccination campaign and now we don't have to think anymore"? Now we're actually taking last year's lockdown measures out of the closet. My question is: would it not be wise to look more closely at how to bring down contacts, with "buying by appointment" as an option, without contributing to a huge increase in the number of infections? I mean, there's still plenty of opportunities for that, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u24	I see a lot of opportunities. I am pleased that we have learned from the previous measures and have now taken the click-and-collect option directly. I find the uncertainty of what is coming towards us very high and see little room for that at the moment. The pictures don't look good when you see how skyhigh the number of infections, hospitalizations and ic-recordings go. I would like to give all sectors a little more space, but I think we should implement this package for the moment. I hope that the cabinet will regularly see if some relief can be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u25	When it comes to cutting back on care in the coming years, the coalition pretends to be a long-term story, but that is not the case. The cuts are booked. Next year, hospitals will be on the zero line anyway, but for then, the new cabinet, the new coalition, wants to conclude a austerity agreement to save EUR 1.3 billion on care. I'm sure most of that, just like last time, will come back to the hospitals. Those cuts aren't far away. They are going to run this period and must be completed by 2026. First of all, why doesn't Mrs De Vries tell us the honest story about these cuts? Secondly, how does she manage to cut back on hospital care at this time when we have so many extra people in hospitals? Why does she do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u26	I would like to tell the honest story, but the honest story is that we want to set in motion a route for more appropriate care in the right place. For that you may need less the hospital and more the first line or possibilities in people's homes. I don't know if it'll make people any better if we keep them in the hospital. Of course, ic, absolutely, and for that resources are reserved under the heading "pandemic preparedness'. I think maybe we're in it differently than you, who says, "I'd rather keep it all in the hospital." That's not what the VVD wants. We prefer to organise the care as close to the people as possible, if possible at home, for example for chronic patients where the monitoring takes place at home, so that they no longer have to go to the hospital continuously to have a check done, or in the first line. You should tell that story when you talk about the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u27	Now Mrs De Vries pretends that 300 million, the pandemic preparedness, some of which should go to the ic, is a reservation. But that amount must be raised by the austerity agreement in 2023. So what you give with one hand, you take away with the other. There's been a whole disease. You say: we prefer that care with the general practitioner, the first line or somewhere else. But will you look around? It's the GPs up to here and in the nursing homes the pressure is enormous. If you're talking about taking care away from the hospitals, where are you taking those sick people, Mrs. De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u29	There's no place at all. You will have to come up with a solution for the coming time to treat all those corona patients and all that catching-up care in hospitals. You haven't even come up with a solution yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u30	Mrs. De Vries. And please speak through the chairman, so no "ge-u" and "ge-u" you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u31	In my view, there are a number of other issues about the corona crisis in the coalition agreement, such as the flexible shell and the healthcare reserve that we want to make. That's a start already. We believe that this could fit in with the long-term perspective to ensure that we are prepared for the future. If there are any other good ideas, we can talk about that. We really need to talk more about long-term policies, because I agree with everyone. I think the cabinet is already working to present plans for this early next year. We will really have to look at how we learn to live with this virus, what different scenarios there are and what solutions there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals, then Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks and then Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u33	Mrs De Vries mentioned the support packages for entrepreneurs. We now see that small entrepreneurs, but alsozzp'ers, are getting back on track. The Animal Party proposed a solidarity levy last time, because on the other hand we see that large companies benefit from such a lockdown. Look at the Internet stores. My question is: what would Mrs De Vries think of the proposal to ask the cabinet again for a solidarity levy, which would allow us to distribute profits more fairly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u34	I'm not sure what that solves, because big companies will get hit too. Smaller companies may be doing well, but they are also getting a lot of hits. I think that, with the letter sent to the Chamber this morning, there is indeed attention to the problem that Mrs Teunissen refers to. This is how thezzp'ers look at the Bbz again. This is an abbreviation of Decision on self-employed assistance. We're going to die in the abbreviations. That is what we are now paying attention to, because these measures and this lockdown are going to hit a lot of entrepreneurs hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u35	That enlargement of the Bbz would of course be very nice. He's not here yet. However, it is quite unfair that shopkeepers now have to close down andzzp'ers are forced back into trouble. On the other hand, large companies benefit greatly from this lockdown. Not a little bit: sales sometimes increase by 70% of what normally comes in. My question is: why, on top of enlargement, should we not make it fairer for everyone in this lockdown and introduce a solidarity levy on top of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u36	I think we will agree on the fact that we need good support packages for entrepreneurs. I have just indicated that the package that has been pushed up is, in our view, even too thin. The cabinet sent a letter this morning with an improvement, as far as I am concerned, absolutely an improvement. I have asked a number of questions about start-ups. For some time now, we have felt that it would be an extra loss. There are a number of poignant cases, such as the one I mentioned in Leeuwarden. I'd like to know what the cabinet is going to do about that. But I don't know if you're gonna solve that with a solidarity levy. I think we should support them generously. We are trying to do as much as we can right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mrs De Vries talks about good safety nets for entrepreneurs, good regulations. Now, of course, there are entrepreneurs who are not covered by a scheme. For example, it concernszzp'ers and the cultural and creative sector, but also restaurant owners who were just closed in the period for corona because of a renovation or a change of ownership. My question is: should there not also be a safety net for this group, for the people who are not covered by anything now and who have had almost no income for almost two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u38	I'd really like that. I've been asking about it now. I mentioned the harrowing cases. There are indeed a number that are just between them and are not eligible for anything. These are, for example, start-ups and people who, for example, have taken over a business. I would like to have an arrangement for that, absolutely. I also see the practical objections, because that has to be looked at almost one-on-one. But I'd like to. It is not for nothing that I have called attention to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u39	Thank you very much for Mrs De Vries' attention. Of course, it's not just something that's going on right now. Several groups have asked for this in the last year and a half. With the new lockdown, the emergency is even higher. I would like to say to Mrs De Vries that it is of course nice to draw attention to it and to submit it to the cabinet, but that it would also help if it were to be given a clear ruling in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u40	That can be done, but I also find it complicated to make a statement in the Chamber that cannot be carried out. I know that my colleague, Thierry Aartsen, is constantly pressing for improvements to the aid packages in the debates on the aid packages, including on this point. Unfortunately, the cabinet has not yet been able to find a solution to this problem. I hope it will be there in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u41	Nowhere in the world are currently such strict measures as in the Netherlands. It is, of course, important for compliance with the measures to be based on acceptance and trust. Recent figures show that confidence in this cabinet's corona approach has fallen to 15%. Could Mrs De Vries explain what that is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u42	I think we're just so tired of all these measures. I understand that very well, because I feel the same way myself. We had the idea that we could come a long way with vaccination. However, the practice is that this virus is very erratic and sometimes it is difficult to control it. So I understand perfectly well that people are just tired of it. They prefer to celebrate Christmas with their neighbors, where they are no longer attached to the 1.5 meters and to the limitation of the numbers. I understand that incredibly well. I think that's where the low confidence in the corona policy comes from too. You have to ask yourself if you shouldn't do something. That may be the solution that DENK chooses. I would not like to do that, because I think that we in the Chamber have a great responsibility and have to take this kind of difficult decision, even though the people and entrepreneurs in the country find it extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u43	Doing nothing is not an option. In my speeches during corona debates, I have said this enough. I would like to challenge Mrs De Vries to spare one interruption to ask me the question: what would DENK then do? But, of course, trust in the government's approach is extremely low at the moment. I think it's too easy when they say, "We're tired of it." I think people were tired of it a year ago, so that's the easy answer. When we look at the measures that are currently being taken, we see that the Netherlands is the strictest country in the world. No country in the world is currently taking such firm measures as the Netherlands. That doesn't happen anywhere in the world. Could it possibly also be that confidence is so low?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u44	I understand that the harder the measures are, the less pleasant people find it and the less likely it is that they say: I have a lot of confidence in this. After all, they would have preferred to see it differently. I'll share that. Only, the question is: do you have to take less measures, when you see what's coming towards you? Shouldn't you act, or should you postpone that action? I wouldn't be for that. I think that we are going to turn people's minds and perhaps later they will say: if only these measures had been taken sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u45	I suggest we take the measures that we know are working. At the moment we see that a lot of Dutch people in the border regions choose to go to Belgium, and not even only in the border regions. In recent news reports, we have been able to see what madness currently prevails in Antwerp with Dutch people taking the trip to Antwerp. The Dutch also go to German border regions. If we take strict measures of this kind, we will achieve precisely the opposite of what this cabinet is actually trying to achieve, namely that there are fewer movements. We see that people are flocking to Antwerp and the German border regions. Let me ask you again: are the measures we are currently taking so targeted, so efficient? The population is hit hard, which is why we are actually forcing people to cross the border. Does Mrs De Vries think that these measures will work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u46	If I thought they were not going to work, I would not support the proposed measures. I really do see the problem in the border regions. Absolutely. Would this mean that we should take exactly the same measures as Belgium and Germany? I think it would not be good in the Netherlands and in the care, given the number of infections. I want to make the following appeal to people: boys, just use your common sense; think for a second. The appeal of the cabinet is explicit: stay home as much as possible. I think we'll get out of this mess sooner. Even though I understand that it's very tempting to cross that border if you live near it. I would therefore like to ask for some solidarity with the Belgians and Germans, who are then taken there from the Netherlands in a manner of speaking. I wouldn't like that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u48	What about the booster planning? What about the plans for boosters after this winter, for example with an omikron bomber? How is everything prepared to ensure that the GGD can manage everything in 2022 and 2023? How do we ensure that the booster is taken by everyone who has been vaccinated? And when can 18-minners who have previously been vaccinated for medical reasons get a booster? Mr. Chairman. Care is under pressure from the delta variant. Now the Omikron variant is added. What consequences can this have for the care, despite the lockdown? What are the scenarios in this winter with regard to care demand, both for hospitals and ic's as well as for the first line and home care? How does the Minister look at the extra capacity for the ic's in the coming winter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u49	Maybe it's okay if you finish your speech before I allow an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u50	Mr President, that is possible, of course. We also need to look beyond this lockdown. If it can be justified again, we want to offer more space as soon as possible. We must have a long-term policy for this, and we must have the tools in the toolbox, such as 2G. That is not the case at the moment and we do not want to be late. I hope that other parties will realise that, and I hope that we will be able to decide on it immediately after Christmas. However difficult it may be, if we have a choice between restricting everyone or restricting unvaccinated people a little more, then we choose to spare those who have vaccinated. What new instruments does the cabinet want to look at? Can long-term policies also be accelerated? As far as the VVD is concerned, a pandemic must also look at the well-being of people and the economy, at their own responsibility and rights, but also at duties. We also need to look at solid, visible enforcement. What we saw again this weekend in Wijster, is really lab-cacky. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I hope that we do not use all our energy to stand up to each other and fight each other. Let's stop that energy at an older neighbor's house or visit that single relative once during this period. Let's look forward to seeing each other in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. There is an interruption by Mrs Gündoğan of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u52	First of all. I agree with the last part of Mrs De Vries's words. Having said that, I think it is high time to learn from what the Netherlands is doing. On page 38 of the technical briefing, Mrs De Vries is probably well known, it says that the Netherlands has three months, lately less, too many infections and is leading Europe. I have tabled motion after motion to come up with a long-term policy and to focus on the low number of infections. We wouldn't have had to be in so much trouble right now. How does Mrs De Vries look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u53	I think it's always good to look back and learn lessons for the future. However, I find it always complicated that the knowledge of today is looked at. Of course we knew there would be virus mutants. The question is whether you could have predicted such a variant as omikron, with so many different elements in the virus. You can choose to maintain a lot of measures for a very long time, but then I find it hard to explain for the sake of the welfare of people and our entrepreneurs if the infections and the hospital and ic occupation do not really give rise to this. I do agree with Mrs Gündoğan that we need to look at the long-term policy. I hope for an acceleration from the cabinet, although I understand that there is also enormous pressure to get things done that are needed in the short term. I think we really need it for this winter, but certainly also for future winters and beyond, for future pandemics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u54	Then I assume that Mrs De Vries is just as keen to learn from this wave and from previous waves and that she, like me, is keen to get the interim report from the OVV so that we can finally learn lessons from the past. Does Mrs De Vries want to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u55	Yeah, I think we've had that discussion here before. I don't think we're the client of the OVV. That's what I think was complicated in the past. I think we should have a good and thorough report on the lessons. If that can be done more quickly, I would be in favour of it, but I am sure that we should learn from the past. It is not for nothing that I have tabled a motion with a very large number of parties to launch a parliamentary inquiry, to really learn from what has happened. Nor is it the case that we just need the OVV report to learn some lessons from what has happened recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u56	That parliamentary survey and the OVV report are still waiting for us. You could then go back to the classical epidemiological story, told by Professor Frits Rosendal among others. The cabinet does the opposite of what all epidemiologists say, namely: you need to relax slowly. That didn't happen at the end of September. It was easy to relax. They also say: you need to come up with tougher measures quickly. Especially when you're an entrepreneur, it's not to be digested that the fun stores are open at Schiphol. I'm not talking about the sandwich shop, I'm talking about the perfume and liquor stores. As an entrepreneur you now threaten to fall between shore and ship and go bankrupt, as we could also see on TV yesterday. None of that can be digested. It is time for us to quickly learn and listen to the epidemiologists and their experiences. I would like Mrs De Vries to take advantage of this situation to think about it over Christmas, hopefully to stand on Volt's side and make more work of that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u57	I do not believe that epidemiologists and immunologists are not being listened to. There are a lot of experts on the Outbreak Management Team. Beyond that, we hear a lot of experts bringing other issues to the fore. We also had a call yesterday with a number of people from Israel. I think we can all learn from that. I think epidemiologists are being listened to, but there are differences of opinion between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u58	I am concerned about the lessons that Mrs De Vries and the VVD have learned from the past few months. Many different proposals have been made, particularly from the left side of the Chamber, to intervene earlier, rather to see whether meetings should or should not continue, whether or not to use mouth masks and whether or not to provide stricter homework advice. At the time all this was pushed aside, partly by the VVD. Now that the cabinet is pressing the panic button very hard, Mrs De Vries makes it quite normal. But of course it's not normal. Nor is it normal in European terms. Other countries are taking less far-reaching measures because they are not against the wall, such as this cabinet. There is no place in care, the booster campaign is too late and measures have been taken too late. That's why we're standing with our backs against the wall. Does Mrs De Vries know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u59	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u60	I note that Mrs De Vries has not been learning for a year and a half. We are now back in a situation where you can only press the panic button, when we could have started two months ago. I would like to ask Mrs De Vries whether she sees this and whether she also thinks that this should be included in our strategy for the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u61	I want to pick up a lot of things in the long-term strategy, but I think the SP is a little short on me. Indeed, I indicated a number of times ago, one or two debates, that if I looked back to September, for example, I would have preferred to hold on to some of the basic measures for a longer period. In the previous debate, I was critical of the booster strategy and the moment we started it. As a VVD, we discussed the booster for the first time in July. Afterwards we indicated several times: make sure you are ready for that. They just weren't in the starting blocks. That's what I reported. We absolutely must learn from that. I'm gonna take a look at the SP, too. The SP did not support the Temporary Law measures covid-19. You can now say very boldly: you should have taken tougher measures, but without that law there would not have been a legal basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u62	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u63	An interesting diversion, but this really has nothing to do with it. I'm going back to the question. Mrs De Vries is very concerned about the shopkeepers. I share those concerns, but I also keep the VVD in mind that the blunt lockdown we now have is partly the result of the strategy pursued. I'm not just saying that. The OMT says we need to buy time, because the care capacity is inadequate and the booster campaign is lagging behind. Van Ranst, the Belgian Van Dissel, says: we are probably going to take less far-reaching measures in Belgium, because we have more room in the care and we are much further on with that booster campaign. I would like to know the following from Mrs De Vries. If she is standing up for the entrepreneurs and finds it very sad, very tragic that all these things are now closed again, does she think that the lesson is that earlier intervention might have prevented this kind of rude measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u64	I don't know if you could have prevented all the measures. I agree with the SP that the booster campaign has been launched too late and has been too slow in the beginning. The use of the Lower House was necessary to increase the pressure on it. Luckily, that was done. They're taking everything out of the closet right now. I have asked a number of questions about this, because I think we should see if we can make more progress. But I also find it a bit easy if you just say: we could have seen everything coming. I think you have to make decisions in this pandemic, but I also think in a lot of other pandemics, fortunately I haven't been there before, sometimes on the basis of less information, and that you look at what can be done. That is also the approach we are choosing, that your measures do not continue to be in the air unnecessarily long. I think that is true of many countries. Israel, for example, has a high vaccination rate and much has been boosted, but Israel too is closing the borders when it comes to omikron. I don't think you can always provide for everything there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u65	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Chicken, because she just got up. But now I understand from her that that was a sham. Okay. I would like to thank Mrs De Vries and give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u66	Mr. Chairman. When the Netherlands becomes world news, we are usually very proud. To a salvage company of ours that liberates the Suez Canal. To our top scientists, like the Leideners who developed the Janssen vaccine. Or our top athletes, Sifan Hassan, Max Verstappen and of course Dick Jaspers. But now our country is world famous for a very different reason. Because because of Omikron, we are the first in Europe to be in a total lockdown. The New York Times wrote that the Netherlands normally struggles so well organized to control the virus, more than other prosperous countries. Let me say first of all that my group also understands that we should be in lockdown at the moment. I'm glad there are such generous packages of support. But I think of the people who say: I've been following all the rules for two years, I've been vaccinated twice and if necessary, I'll get that booster, but why do I have to do this? Why is this country completely locked up for me now? That's a good question. Actually, we say to them: sorry, you're at home because too many others didn't let themselves be vaccinated. Because the Netherlands started boostering too late and getting the test capacity in order. And because politics is afraid to talk about alternatives, such as 2G, to keep things open as long as possible, while other countries have been using this for a long time. Then you can still eat out in Germany, to the theatre or the Christmas market. There you can see that the big parties dare to make that choice, from the Liberals to the Greens. Lockdowns are a tear valley. We see this in the eyes of the entrepreneur who has to close his business again, but also in the eyes of the student and the theatre maker. The question is simple: are we going to sit down and wait for the birds to whistle again, or are we going to make this lockdown land open again? As far as we are concerned, we are going to work, with ambition and with courage, because we can do a lot during a lockdown. I would like to mention three points. First of all, the schools. Are we using this longer closure to make classrooms really safer? Not by letting the schools pick it out themselves, but by saying: after Christmas there is a CO meter in each classroom and soon all classes will get self-tests, instead of just groups 6, 7 and 8. Secondly, the boosters. One professional after another still says in an e-mail: I would like to help, but I keep running into that bureaucratic wall. It is good that this is getting better now, but I would ask the Minister to do everything in his power to make it possible for the registration of general practitioners to be able to contribute to the maximum. I also keep reading that G.D.D.s are getting fired because otherwise they're gonna have to get a permanent contract, while the call centers collapse. How about this? Can we now agree that after the booster campaign many of the new GGD's remain, to test or do a BCO, so that we regain the view of the virus? And can we look at Israel better now, because omikron can ask us to use a booster in the nursing homes, for example? Then care. Care personnel are asking about the use of FFP2 masks. Because of Omikron, this kind of protection is all the more important. Will the Netherlands now take that step, at least for those caregivers who want to? And can we agree that we are also preparing for the South Africa scenario? That there might be a lot more people in the hospital, but that there would be less flowing to the ic and that the nursing departments would be completely full? Don't emergency hospitals offer the solution? And what do we do if it stays that hospitals are mainly full of people who consciously choose not to be protected from corona? I am very curious to hear a reaction from the cabinet to the latter, but also from fellow chamber members. Because there is a quiet majority in the Netherlands that, together with the entrepreneurs, the KNVB, the pop stages and the cultural sector, is asking for alternatives. They ask for the opportunity to open with 2G as soon as possible, as in Italy, Sweden, Germany, the Czech Republic, Austria, Switzerland, Estonia, Ireland and France. They ask that for their staff and for the welfare of young people and the elderly, so that we do not become the champion of the longest lockdown, but we get the world news again with real top performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u68	Mr Paternotte mentions a lot of things I agree with: boosters, safe masks and ventilation in schools. I also know Mr Paternotte as someone who is constantly very critical of cabinet policy and who often raises his finger first and says: it must be done faster and it can be done differently. Therefore, I would have expected a little more vision on how we deal with corona in the longer term, because Corona will remain with us for a number of years. That is why I have the following question. I read in the NRC this morning that he said that the negotiations on the cabinet formation did not really reflect on the corona approach for very long. My question to him is: is he involved in this? If not, why not? And why has there actually been so little talk about corona, when we have seen him coming for a long time, too, that corona will be with us for quite a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u69	I am very much looking forward to that long-term debate. But I only had four minutes of speaking time here, of course. We recently put our ideas together under the title "Less Virus." I read in the daily newspaper this morning that you also have a plan. I haven't been able to read it yet, but I'm going to do it with great pleasure, because I think it's very important that all parties come up with their ideas. That long term is important and the preparation for it is now beginning. I have therefore also tabled the motion for two debates back in order to prepare boosters and put the ventilation in order in schools. I do not agree with your question about the negotiations. The agreement refers not only to pandemic preparedness, which is a major issue, but also to the decision to make ic capacity more flexible and resilient. In many places in the agreement there is a reference to corona and the lessons that are drawn from it. But when it comes to measures such as those I mentioned earlier, of course I mentioned 2G explicitly, but there are more difficult measures that we have to take together, and that is not enough for the coalition alone. We cannot have a situation in which coalition and opposition are just opposite each other. Luckily, Corona never did. I believe, for example, that the Corona Act was negotiated with you, but also with GroenLinks and I also believe that the SGP was negotiated at the time. The Corona Access Cards Act could only get through with the support of opposition parties, including indeed the Labour Party. This is important not only for the Netherlands, but also for the political reality. So yes, you can write that down in a coalition agreement, and there's a lot about corona in the coalition agreement too, but on a lot of points, you don't just have to look at the coalition, but we all have to feel that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u70	I get a very long answer to questions I haven't asked. I'll take it back to the next one. You had it recorded in the NRC this morning that very little was actually said about corona in the negotiations. My question is whether that is not illogical, since we know that we will still be dealing with corona in the coming years and that that will require much more fundamental choices than only answers to questions in the short term such as: how do we deal with boosters and testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u71	I have the impression that Mrs. Chicken is quoting a quote from herself. I didn't say there wasn't much talking about corona. There is, of course, constant talk of corona because it controls our country so enormously. That's why the $300 million is in there for pandemic preparedness. We know that we really need to do other things to be prepared for virus mutations, future viruses and pandemics. That is why it also says that we need to make ic capacity more flexible and resilient and there are all kinds of care measures directly related to the corona crisis. There have also been many lessons learned from this corona crisis in many places in the agreement. So I don't agree with Mrs. Chicken. Maybe that's why she says, "I didn't ask that question." I do not agree with your interpretation of what would be in the NRC. I know that you think there should be more in the agreement, but I think that is why we have said that there should be a debate on the long term and that we should hold hearings on this. I would very much like more parties to be involved in thinking about solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u72	From Mr Paternotte's mouth it is recorded: "Not much has been said about corona in the coalition negotiations. In fact, the ink wasn't dry yet or Omikron was there." While Omikron was already there at the end of November. I would like to conclude, for the sake of convenience, that Mr Paternotte is not so involved in the negotiations on corona policy and that I am therefore getting a bit of a zigzag answer. Let me ask you another question. Doesn't it ask a lot more than just the scaling-up of care and ventilation? Should we not also look much more at how we organise our society, how we deal with entrepreneurs who may need to stop now, who may need to be retrained, and at seasons that may need to be redesigned, bigger events that we may not be able to organise in winter? Shouldn't that have been given more attention in the coalition agreement too, because it can be truly disruptive for society in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u73	What I said was, "The ink wasn't dry yet or a lockdown started." I don't think you heard me say that Omikron wasn't there at the time. That's why you see these developments go very quickly. Mrs. Kuik just mentioned all kinds of interesting points. I can deal with all of them. We have also written a lot about it in our own plan, indeed also about ventilation and make sure that the air in all the spaces in which people come together is much better so that the virus goes less around. You're talking about events that have to go to summer. Well, I've seen some very interesting suggestions from Mayor Depla and Mayor Dijksma from Utrecht. Yeah, that's the kind of thing you should talk about. It's not for nothing that it's mayors who come with it. I would like entrepreneurs to think about this kind of thing as well. Now, if you're gonna say, as I've heard someone do, that Christmas vacation has to be longer and summer vacation shorter, you're gonna have to talk to the field of education about that. In my view, that is the task we are now faced with. And if you say that all this has to be decided by the coalition, I think we're doing the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u74	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u75	I'm rounding up. What I've been terribly missing for two years is a long-term strategy. I really expected, in view of the serious infringement of society, of the serious infringement of entrepreneurs, of the serious infringement of youth, which was a full chapter on this and not three paragraphs. I would have expected Mr Paternotte, who is always the first to stand at the front with his finger up, to have contributed to this. I really think that's a missed opportunity. We will, of course, put that together in a different way, but I really felt that the coalition agreement was the first time to write down those signs for the future, and that just didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u76	I wonder what the definition of the Labour Party is of a new administrative culture, when the Chamber says 'we want to have a long-term debate with each other and we are going to plan hearings for two days' and when parties come up with their ideas. You've also come up with a plan. I can't wait to see what's in there. I'm gonna read it later. Then the new governance culture is: "No, I don't like that. I believe that the coalition must determine everything and write it down with each other in the greatest detail in a coalition agreement on the main lines, in an epidemic that is constantly developing and that constantly surprises us."? That seems to me to be a strange definition of the new administrative culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u77	Thank you. I shall go first to Mrs Teunissen, then to Mr Van der Staaij and then to Mrs Van der Plas. Mrs Teunissen, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u78	Mr President, thank you. At the very beginning of his speech, Mr Paternotte said that a lot of people have been doing their utmost for two years to comply with the corona measures. You're right. But at least there is one company in the Netherlands that thinks it can afford an exceptional position and that is Schiphol. We have seen before that Schiphol did not want to comply with the 1.5 meter measure last year. That's what we intervened on. Now it's time again. Now there are exceptions for Schiphol for that 1.5 meter measure, but also for the shops, the non-essential shops: bag shops, make-up, perfume. They can just stay open. Staff at Schiphol are quite rightly concerned about the risk of contamination. Schiphol is a place where a lot of people come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u79	You want a response from Mr Paternotte to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u80	Yes. My question is: what does Mr Paternotte think of that and whether we should not get rid of Schiphol's exceptional position?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u81	I get that feeling about these people, like corona doesn't exist anymore after you get past customs. That travellers who switch should be able to eat something because they don't have a kitchen at Schiphol Airport where they can prepare it, that makes sense. That's why you've got the catering business there. You don't want everyone sitting together on those benches with bread out of a baggie. Why, indeed, should you be at Schiphol, at this time, when the country is all in lockdown and all shops are closed, watches, perfumes and very expensive whisky, which seems very good to me, can all sell? I think that's a very strange signal and I don't think it's necessary. So I would ask the cabinet to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u82	Mrs Teunissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u83	I am very pleased to hear that Mr Paternotte also wants to get rid of that exception. I'd like to move in with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u84	In Mr Paternotte's speech, I hear some things about 2G that I do not agree with at all. But my interruption is about things that I very much agree with. They were also in Mr Paternotte's speech. Then I'll take the point of ventilating. "Ventilating, ventilation, ventilation" was already in the plan of D66. If schools are such an important fireplace, they're just the sober facts, shouldn't we have a lot more commitment to getting that right a long time ago? I also hear Mr Paternotte say it, but what are we really going to do to get that done as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u85	Thank you for reading our plan. It is always nice when Parliament's nestor has done so. I agree with you. Last time we had a little debate here in which Minister Slob was also present. Then I asked him: why haven't we got this in the Netherlands yet? He said, "Well, schools can do that." In itself, I am always very much in agreement with the principle that schools themselves should have the broad one to implement education, but this is, of course, a safety measure, which can be based on science. Then I think it is very good that they have said in Belgium: in each classroom there is a CO meter to monitor air quality. That's what I want here. That's why I asked the cabinet that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u86	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u87	Very good. Thank you also for the support for a motion by Mr Bishop who also asked the cabinet for an acceleration. Because we're talking about boosters, but we just need a booster around those ventilation facilities. We really need to speed that up. My question to D66 is next. Do you also see the point that there is actually too much bureaucracy, that this task of the municipality and all kinds of other things stand in the way, and that we should just try to get through it unconventionally, unorthodoxly? How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u88	Unorthodox? Let me add something first. I would have liked to mention the miracle of Staphorst, those air cleaners. There is now, of course, an investigation by TU Delft, among others. This also happens in Bilzen in Belgium, I think. But if we see that that actually works fantastic, and you get that impression on the basis of those beautiful first stories of course, we have to use them immediately and respond to them on time. Then there is the unorthodox approach to boosters. I really liked the way those general practitioners said yesterday: we can put up 30,000 shots. At first it didn't seem right, but this morning it was possible. Turns out that was a misunderstanding. This is really good, because if the GGD region and the GPs say together that we can do it, we have to do it. This is why I asked you to do that. There are quite a lot of general practitioners who want to do this. Then they say, "Yes, but what about the registration? It was difficult in the spring." Then make sure those general practitioners can do that very easily. It was said this morning that you need to download an app and then it takes a while to enter it. Make the appointment that the doctor downloads that app and introduces the vaccination. Then you're done with that problem. A lot of people step over the threshold at the GP much sooner than in other places. I therefore very much agree with Mr Van der Staaij's unorthodox proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u89	There are still a number of interruptions. First, Mrs Van der Plas of BBB, then Mr Kuzu of DENK and then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u90	I have heard Mr Paternotte say a lot, but the lockdowns are simply because the care is not in order, because there are not enough beds, because there is not enough care staff, because there is not enough care in width. That's why we're in lockdowns. I do not hear Mr Paternotte say that. He is eagerly shaking no, but that is of course the case. Keep the pressure on care low and protect the vulnerable; that is why we are taking the corona measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u92	Why does Mr Paternotte acknowledge that extremely important piece of this whole coronapandemic and coronaellen not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u93	Is Mrs Van der Plas really trying to say that the lockdown that has now been declared is only due to a lack of care capacity? I'm just thinking about it. You've also seen...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u94	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u95	Mrs Van der Plas, I say through the chairman, has actually seen that RIVM said that if we stay in evening lockdown at the end of January, maybe 4,000 people need ic-care at the same time? And that's just for corona, isn't it? That'll add up to 500 more people. If even one healthcare professional in the Netherlands thinks that at the end of January we could take care of 4,000 corona patients on the ic, can artificially ventilate 4,000 people, often in coma, on such a bed... There's no one in the care that thinks that. So if you're saying that we wouldn't need lockdowns, you're actually saying that we could also lift that night lockdown if we had enough care capacity. Well, then it's gonna be even more. So this is total bullshit. I also think that we should not tell people that, because if science gives us such a clear picture of what is to come and we are therefore intervening, then let us not pretend that these measures are totally unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u96	Mr Paternotte has heard me say at all that this lockdown is not necessary. I didn't say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u97	If the care capacity was in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u98	No, you can interrupt me now, but I am speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u99	Mrs van der Plas has the floor. And I'd like both of you to go through the chairman's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u100	And through the chairman. Apologies. Mr Paternotte did not hear me say that at all. The number of infections is an estimate. When Mr Paternotte was at WNL and the technical briefing started here, we also heard that it is just estimates, that there is still a lot of uncertainty and that the omikron variant might not be able to provide so many additional hospitalizations. That there's a lockdown as a precaution, because we don't know, I get it. I hate it, but I understand that. We've been chasing the facts for so long. We just shouldn't do that right now. But of course it is important that we have been in this pandemic for two years now, because care is still not in order, because hospitals cannot cope with care. We also saw that this morning, while he was at WNL. We've seen that there's still a lot of delayed care. Isn't that just true? Mr Paternotte is not going to deny that here, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u101	I responded to the fact that Mrs Van der Plas just said that lockdowns are not necessary if the care capacity is in order. That's just not right with this virus. I think this lockdown is the example of that. I'm not saying there's no trouble in the care. Of course there are. There is not for nothing in the coalition agreement something about this resilient ic capacity, that the system needs to become more flexible and that there is indeed a major problem in terms of catching up. I would like to see better cooperation between hospitals in this area, because it is very different from one region to another where catching-up care is still possible and where it is not. But I'm glad to hear that Mrs. Van der Plas understands very well why this lockdown is needed as a precaution. But let's not pretend that the healthcare capacity is the only answer, as if that's what it's all about. People like to say that. For example, Mr Kuzu referred to Belgium as a country where things go better. Do you realize that they have a vaccination obligation in many professions in Belgium, that they ask €20 for an admission test in Belgium and that many other policy choices have been made there. Do you realize they work with 2G in Germany? So yes, it's fine to compare us to abroad, but let's tell the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u102	The lockdowns are needed. That's what we've been told. Why do we have the corona measures? That's to protect the vulnerable and keep the pressure on care low. Or has that changed? Has anything changed? Did we put anything in there? I now understand from Mr Paternotte's words that there are other reasons for having a lockdown. That's because maybe not everyone has been vaccinated yet. Maybe that's because people can't get sick anymore. That is a bit what I understand between the lines of Mr Paternotte. But this is still why the corona measures are in place, isn't it? Or has that changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u103	No, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u104	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u105	Then I do not understand why Mr Paternotte, in response to my first interruption and also in response to my second and third interruption, denies that there is simply a lack of care and that pressure on care should remain low.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u106	Yes. In the theoretical situation that you can put 10,000 people on the ic, it is indeed not about the care capacity. But I share what you said earlier: if we say that we are solving the crisis by putting as many people on life support as possible, then I think that is a terrible picture. Because on the ic they lie with a catheter in their bladder, with an infusion in their arm, with a tube in their trachea and need to be given a huge ditch pills every day. People get poked all the way. And if they get rid of the ic, it means to most people that they'll never be the same again. So absolutely. I'll tell you every day it's the best thing we can do to keep people off the ic. The easiest way to achieve that is to have you vaccinated and get that booster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u107	Thank you. Then there is the last interruption by Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u108	Since it is my last interruption, I would like to comment on the previous point. Mr Paternotte must of course also say that they have twice as much ic capacity in Belgium. But that's not what my question is about. That's what he didn't mention. My question is about the false contradiction that Mr Paternotte again engaged in by saying that 2G and a lockdown are opposite each other. So if you had 2G, you'd need less lockdowns. While our own OMT indicates that 2G is no way to prevent virus spread. And virus spread eventually also means that people end up on an ic. I know that Mr Paternotte is fascinated by other countries. Then, for example, I look at Israel, the frontrunner in the vaccination rate. That's where they've completed the booster campaign, and that's where they're talking about the fourth shot. I would therefore like to ask Mr Paternotte how he looks at this. And will he please stop the false contradiction between 2G on one side and lockdowns on the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u109	I said there's more to it than that. Indeed, other countries have started boosters before, and that is quite important. There are countries that have better ventilation conditions. There are countries that test a lot. I heard this morning the comparison with Denmark, where there would be many more infections. But in Denmark, the percentage positive in the tests is 1.5%, because they test incredibly much, much more than we do. We have now said that we are doing so through these self-tests. The OMT says: 2G is not the way to bring down infections now. Of course you'd better do a lockdown. But it is a way to prevent something that is open quickly leading to more hospitalizations. That is why it is an option: to be able to open up faster later. That is why so many countries in Europe are now using this tool, often in conjunction with a test being carried out. After all, you also want to reduce the chance that people take the virus inside. You are asking a question about Israel. I think, "Let's just follow science." It's a new virus. We know the vaccine has done fantastic things. It will probably have to be adapted to omikron. It's a kind of chess game where we always have to think a few steps ahead. Indeed, we have Israel as a good example to see what is happening there. And if we see now that for some vulnerable people in the nursing homes a fourth shot is needed, then we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u110	Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group, also the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u111	In addition to Mr Kuzu, I am still surprised that D66 is as committed to vaccination as the Holy Grail doesn't say anything about expanding the ic-capacity, and then finally makes a fervent plea for 2G. That means that people who do tests no longer have access. Those are the only ones guaranteed to be free of corona. Young people don't come to the ICU or the hospital at all. We had a little debate on this last time, and that was made clear again this morning in the technical briefing. Vaccines can be as contagious as unvaccinated. Wouldn't you agree with me that by arguing for 2G, you are introducing a huge sham safety? It is also discriminatory, but let us take the first point. You must also see this false safety, I say through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u112	Sorry, but before I start reacting to Mr Van Haga I'm really going to do it anyway I want to say something. Young people don't even show up with corona at all, said Mr Van Haga just now. I spoke to a doctor yesterday about a 27-year-old boy who had been in intensive care for five weeks and survived. In the Erasmus MC a few weeks ago, they said that more than 32 pregnant women came into intensive care, that children had to be brought too early and that a lot of children were still born due to a corona infection. If we keep telling stories like this here, it could cause casualties. Mr Van Haga has often said that Ivermectin is the solution. I saw this week the story of a woman who had bought Ivermectin for a lot of money and ended up in the hospital. That medicine is not at all suitable for many people to use in a given dose and it certainly doesn't help with corona. I think it is very important that we all here, as serious parties, do our best to tell the truth about this virus. Yes, young people have a much smaller chance of getting into hospital, but that chance is not zero, and certainly not in pregnant women who are very much at risk. Then there is the question of the contradiction. There are a lot of countries that are making this choice now, and of course they are not doing it for nothing. We look abroad very often, even when we point out the booster campaign, ventilation or other things that we can really learn from. Of course, it makes sense on this point. We have this lockdown to a very high degree because unvaccinated people are at such risk of getting into the hospital. Their chances are much greater and therefore the pressure on care is so high. So if you can with 2G, and perhaps at risky places with an extra test, prevent unvaccinated people from entering those risk settings, that is obviously a way of opening it up to other people sooner. I think that's a responsibility, too. We often talk about freedom of choice here, and I think it is important, but we also have a responsibility to the quiet majority of Dutch people who are all trying to comply with the rules, who have been vaccinated twice and also like to get the booster. I would like to say to them that the Netherlands can open up to them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u113	Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks. Yes, it was your last interruption, but you'll have another input in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u114	Mr Paternotte came with a lot of countries that would have 2G. 2G is also a long-cherished wish of D66. But as the staff picked out a few weeks ago, most European countries do not have 2G and in some places they switch to 2G-plus. My question to Mr Paternotte is: now that we know that the current vaccines offer less protection against the omikron variant, do you still support that view, or should we look at other ways of ensuring that society can be opened up in a safe way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u115	I always think it is very important that you constantly look at the effect of a variant on the vaccines and what that means for the use of the corona pass. That must be done at all times. I'm interested in whether you're willing to take this step if that means we can open faster. If the vaccine protects slightly less against infection but certainly with that booster still very well against hospitalisation, then preventing hospitalisation is the main support of 2G. 2G-plus use them in Germany for risky settings, and I fully agree with you that this possibility should also be provided. Especially in the situation now, 2G is not the way to open a disco. Most countries don't use 2G, but I think it's sliding. France chose it this week. I might make it a little simpler, but Sweden, for example, does not use 2G but 1G. By that, they only mean access for vaccinees, so no more when you're recovered. That is partly because they see that the omikron variant still infects many people again with the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u117	So yes, at the moment there is still a small majority of countries that do not choose to do so, but if you can name the countries where admission tests are free, then you will be done with that list very quickly. We also find that a form of 2G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u118	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u119	My point is above all that I hope that Mr Paternotte will continue to open up now that we know that the current vaccines are less protective of the omikron variant. Then I would ask Mr Paternotte to keep looking at the testing. If this can be used in a safe way, precisely to gradually reopen society and certainly not as a crisis response measure, then I hope that we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u120	Those tests are less likely to take the virus inside, as Mr. Van Haga just mentioned. The omikron variant may well change the situation that the chance of a vaccinee taking the virus inside is less. But those vaccines protect you from getting very sick yourself and getting into the hospital. Omikron doesn't change much in that regard. With those boosters, you're almost returning the level of protection to what we had. We absolutely have to ask this question, but what I am saying is that we are prepared to take this step if it makes it possible to open up faster. I see that many other countries manage, for example, to stay open with 2G-plus for longer now. We do not want to put the longest lockdown in Europe on the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u121	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I would like to inform you that Mrs Simons and Mr Omtzigt have signed off on this sitting. In addition, Mr Jansen is today the speaker for Forum for Democracy instead of Mr Van Houwelingen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A hard lockdown, the strictest in Europe. Shut it down again. Our hospitals aren't gonna be okay. Even a fifth wave isn't gonna last. Did the government get spooked? Are they going to invest in care now? No, they're blinded by cost-of-care hatred. Minister De Jonge charged us during the previous debate that if you have 1,000 ic-beds and the reproduction number is 1.2, you need 1,200 ic-beds four days later. Although the sum is correct, it is a reasoning that costs lives. Because our ic-capacity is so low, life-saving operations have been delayed for a long time and necessary treatments have been cancelled. Colleague Hijink used the metaphor of the wave and the dike last week. Also for this fifth wave the dike is not raised. The dike increase makes it longer before panic breaks out, that you no longer need to intervene and perhaps not at all if the dike is higher than the wave. You can also save more people with a higher dike if the wave hits the dike. The button must be in the minds of the decision-makers in that regard. Investing in care is essential, otherwise we stay behind a much too low dike, waiting for another wave. Otherwise, businesses will continue to be closed in the busiest week of the year and care will continue to run on its last legs. A parliamentary working group should consider our future with corona. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Paternotte. I was pleased that Mr Van Dissel came to explain why at the press conference. He did that in understandable language. However, I still miss a mea culpa from the Prime Minister and the Minister, not only for not wanting to invest in our care, but also for the booster. The third shot for older people and at-risk groups is coming on steam, but it's too late. Be honest about that, including the planning. Not all 60-plussers will get their booster this year, even though they have been promised. About 2.5 million will get him, but there are 4.3 million over 60s. The cabinet says to buy time with the booster itself, but before that time buy all the Netherlands must bleed, children, parents, entrepreneurs, everyone. Package night, Formula 1 final, Christmas and New Year all wouldn't have had to lie under a black veil if the booster had been given on time. Whatever I'm missing in communicating about why is at the heart of the matter as to how you get infected. This virus most often jumps over when people meet and then talk to each other. If the infection pressure is as high as it is now, it's better not to meet, nowhere. Call, e-mail, make a video call, have a walking coffee if you see each other anyway. It's safe outside. See each other inside, wear a mouth cap. Above all else, ventilate. Be alert to those who are older or at risk, but do not lose sight of the human dimension. We call for a hardness clause for entrepreneurs who are re-closed by the government and can dispose of their stocks, but ultimately are not adequately compensated. We saw the new letter this morning. With the TVL, the loss threshold goes from 30% to 20% and with the NOW the turnover loss rate from 80% to 90%, but many entrepreneurs who are shut down by the government are no longer able to do so. Something has to be done. With a hardness clause, the premium affair would not have gotten out of hand. We would therefore like a response from the cabinet to this proposal. We also propose to keep the supermarkets open until 10 p.m. With a view to Christmas shopping, spreading customers is of great importance. By the way, all shops can stay open and open until 10 p.m. Non-breathing each other's breath, wearing a mouth cap and ventilating are proven to be effective. Closings aren't. Then build up the care. This is not only about physical capacity, but also about investing in people. The vast majority of care costs go to salaries. If you hate the cost of care, you hate the income of people who pull us through wave after wave. They deserved a good reward for it. If you don't give it up, this isn't the last wave and not the last lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u123	Thank you, Mrs Agema. There is a question from Mr Paternotte, D66. First Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. No, Mrs. Van den Berg got up to give her input. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u124	It's actually kind of a question out of wonder. Mrs Agema and I disagree on many things, but she takes the virus very seriously and comes up with a lot of justified comments about what we have to do now, what we have to do and about the concerns she has about this variant and what it can do with people and with care. This is what I noticed. Ever since the election, I've been doing the corona debates, and I've been running into Geert Wilders every time. Since November, that has not been the case and Mrs. Agema has been there every time. I wonder if that has anything to do with the fact that last summer Mr Wilders proposed to this Chamber three times to lift all the corona measures and almost yelled at these ministers: the corona crisis is over; lift all the measures; I guarantee you that it will not come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u125	No. Geert Wilders was of course right about the measures. If you are asking where Mr Wilders is, you should have asked where Mrs Kaag is. While Mr Wilders was still doing all the debates here as chairman of the group, she was nowhere to be found and neither was Mr Jetten. Of the larger parties, there was not one group chairman. It is even more surprising that all those group chairmen have given up so quickly. As far as measures and summers are concerned, I think it is wrong that we have had to deal with fairly restrictive measures for two summers, while the pressure on infection in the summer is extremely low. The seasonal influence on corona is very large. So I think that in the summer, all summer long, all measures should be lifted. At least in the last two summers we should have been free citizens and we weren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u126	In September, Mr Wilders said that we had to lift all the measures. Right after that, the run-up to the wave we're in now began. Mr Wilders has been doing the Corona debates with all Members of Parliament who are political group specialists, like you. He disappeared early November. I wonder how you look back at the fact that until September the PVV said time and time again that the corona crisis is over, no measures are needed and a little attention should be paid to ventilation, and you now come up with all kinds of questions, proposals and views that are very good and that show that you are taking the virus seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u127	That is quite wrong, because the proposals I make are exactly the same as those Mr Wilders has always made. You are trying to ask the same question twice, and the answer is, of course, exactly the same. Mr Wilders has been the only chairman of the group for a long time. Where was Kaag or Jetten? Where was Mrs. Hermans? Where's Mrs. Ploumen? Where's Mr. Heerma? Where are they? They weren't there all the time. Mr Wilders and I always say the same thing, even in all the other debates we have had on corona. Again, in September, the situation was very different. We have been subjected to fairly restrictive measures throughout the summer, which we should not have done. What happens in September? That's when your corona entry card was entered. Anyone with a corona pass felt safe in the hospitality, but it wasn't. Like the older people in Sappemer who had a clover coat day and were all vaccinated twice, were not safe. Many infections and a dead person were ultimately the result of that day. Former roommates had a getaway and thought they were safe with two vaccinations and a corona pass, but were not safe. In Italy, a party took place two weeks ago for ICU staff and doctors. They too proved to be not safe with three shots and all a test: 70 out of 172 people have become infected. The corona access card has provided people with false security and has resulted in a huge increase in the number of infections. The response was too late and then we proposed the boosters. They were dissuaded and you voted against it. Now you again, Mr. Paternotte!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u128	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just before Christmas, it's all locked up again. A sudden lockdown is the last thing we imagined at Christmas. Given the uncertainty of omikron, we understand the decision. The lockdown is for everyone, but especially for entrepreneurs, their staff and their families, a huge disappointment and hardcore. The story and despair of the catering entrepreneurs in Leeuwarden at EenVandaag speak volumes and go into your toes. We would like to draw attention to start-ups and poignant cases. The rack is out, not only financially, but also mentally. There's got to be perspective. Mr. Chairman. Last week, therefore, I indicated that it is a good thing that a medium-term plan is being worked on. The current path of lockdowns and support packages is unsustainable, not only financially, but also socially, mentally and socially. For the CDA, the following seven principles should be included. First of all... Centering the corona care. Second. Permanent vaccination of vulnerable people. Third. Support that public interests can be more important than individual interests. Fourth. Accept that not everything in life is makeable. Fifth. Adjusting behavior, as always testing and staying at home in case of complaints, but also taking more responsibility to stay healthy. Sixth. Using technological possibilities, such as air cleaners. Seventh. Possibly temporary, but structural, adjustments such as a mask in the OV during certain seasons. Mr. Chairman. For now, I have some loose ends. I think it is right that at least click-and-collect should be allowed to continue as an option. Let us do this particularly with local entrepreneurs. And then a few more questions. Will the Minister implement the motion submitted by the CDA with the PvdA on structural consultation with social partners on how to tackle the corona crisis? And how's he gonna do it? Is the Minister prepared to consider for the future whether the distinction between essential and non-essential from the point of view of public health might need to be defined differently? Think of sports and bookshops. Because bookshops and sports closed, but liquor stores and coffee shops open, the CDA does find it special. The same question with regard to hairdressers. A hairdresser visit is important for many people, often even for their state of mind. I'd like a response from the Minister. Medical contact professions may be exercised. Are these only those professions that are covered by the Health Insurance Act or also by supplementary insurance? In other words, what about the chiropractor and the osteopath? To what extent is there consultation with Belgium and Germany? Entrepreneurs in the border region feel double caught. Will the Minister carry out the motion of my colleagues Amhaouch and Palland on the occasion of the Euregion Council? Can the Minister state the latest state of play on the expected timetable of the 2G bill? If 2G appears to be effective and if the figures develop favourably, 2G can help to open some sectors earlier. But then we'll have to have that tool in the basket. Finally, Mr President. Pope Francis will give the blessing urbi et orbi on Christmas. Literally translated: for the city and for the ring. The city is of course Vatican City in Rome. The ring stands for the ring of countries, or the world. We must continue to realise that the only way to combat corona is to continue to fight it together and continue to work for the whole world. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate, I asked the cabinet to come up with a story that convinces people, a message that takes people into account in the harsh measures that are being taken. Now six million people, even more so, watched the press conference last Saturday. They saw Jaap van Dissel there. Mrs. Agema thought it was a clear story, but frankly, I thought it was pretty complicated. I've been wondering if this is the clear story, the bite-ready chunks that will convince the people. I ask the cabinet why it is not possible to inform the people clearly after a year and a half, to take them in this lockdown but also in the direction of getting out again. Can the cabinet not see that this is very much needed, now that confidence in policy and in this cabinet is lower than ever? The OMT opinion makes it very clear that the new lockdown is needed to buy time for the booster campaign and to improve the starting position of care. That is a very painful description for the SP of the situation we are in. Because the OMT, like Marc van Ranst, the Belgian Jaap van Dissel, says that the measures are necessary because the booster campaign is too slow and because we have such large deficits in care. The SP thinks that many Dutch people understand the uncertainties we are facing. But understanding is becoming increasingly difficult if the cabinet does not look prepared for variants such as omikron, for which so often has been warned. Understanding is also difficult if the cabinet has ignored all proposals in the Chamber to take swift action. The concept is also rapidly reduced if, after 1.5 years of demands for more investment in healthcare, the new cabinet is going to cut back on care, allowing the caregivers to take the hits again. This is not only fierce for these care providers themselves, but also for all those entrepreneurs, the shopkeepers, who are now faced with debts, supplies and problems, for the restaurant owners who no longer see the future and all the others who are out of savings. Can the Prime Minister respond to that? Are we not increasingly screwed up by the policy pursued? Will these entrepreneurs be fully compensated or will it become even more difficult for the self-employed? How does the enormous damage in society and the economy relate to investment in care, sport and prevention, testing policy, source and contact research, ventilation in schools and industry? After all, all this is not in order. Does the Cabinet recognise that this must be the long-term story, that we need to have all these things in order to prevent lockdowns? Does the Cabinet recognise that you need a strategy to keep an eye on the virus, that you need to intervene quickly, that care can take much more and that all sectors are designed so that there can be much more? Mr. Chairman. In England we also see the consequences of omikron on the caregivers. They get infected a lot. The spread is fast. What is the Cabinet going to do to protect our caregivers from the omikron variant? Can the Minister promise that all caregivers will be given the FFP2 masks they need and that the supplies we still have will be opened and taken to care? The SP also wants to know how to further accelerate the booster campaign. We are still receiving many reports from healthcare professionals and volunteers who would like to help, but who are not being helped or who are not getting the vaccines delivered. Let me be very clear: the thousands of people who put the stakes at the GGD and elsewhere every day deserve a very big compliment for the enormous hard work they do. They perform a great achievement, especially when you consider that politics is not always making it easy for them. However, you would also say that these people should now be able to get all the help that is being offered. So I would like to ask the Cabinet: what is the Cabinet going to do to support all these well-intentioned general practitioners, but also the many volunteers and others who want to help, so that we can have vaccinated and boosted as many people as possible before Christmas, especially for old and new people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u132	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u133	Mr. Chairman. It is extremely sad that we are now in a lockdown again. Unfortunately, it is necessary, but it hits everyone extremely hard. It is therefore a good thing that the support packages are expanded again, but the uncertainty forzzp'ers, flexworkers and mid-wal-and-ship entrepreneurs remains enormous. Mr. Chairman. There is a great deal of concern for the future in the short term. I wonder what kind of short-term solution we can get out of this. I'm also curious what the cabinet will do if it fails. What measures can we expect? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the short term, we will also have to look at the long term. In the last two years, everyone's worked their asses off. It is understandable that everyone is more than tired. However, I have to say that two years after the start of the crisis we are on a dead end. The unnecessary bureaucratic and slow booster campaign, the total lack of perspective for entrepreneurs, education and care workers, the baffling communication, however well it is intended, are some examples of this. The Netherlands can no longer afford to continue on the same footing. It's time for fresh energy and new insights. The Labour Party would therefore like to see a special minister for corona and society, who not only looks at the medical aspects, but also looks at the needs of society as a whole and is also directing them. Because Corona will stay with us for the next few years. Decision-making must be out of the crisis situation and move towards a long-term structural approach. The OMT needs a different role. There needs to be more participation of behavioral experts, communication professionals and people from education, care, culture and youth work. Now bear in mind that Corona will be with us in the coming years. This probably means that every year there will be a booster campaign. That means testing for work or school should become normal. This means that we need to use high-quality mouth caps. Keeping the schools open is everyone's priority, but how are we gonna handle it? When does every school and every nursing home have fresh air, as this should have been done before the corona crisis? How is the cabinet going to scale up the ic's and keep care workers? When will the separate covid units be ready? How are we going to guarantee non-covid care in the short and long term for people waiting for surgery? How will the cabinet address the further division and poverty of, for example, small entrepreneurs? Are events becoming a kind of seasonal work? Are we going to retrain or adapt people to that? Is the corona communication being redesigned? Criticism and disinformation now prevail. Ministers don't even have time to react to other times. So in short, there is a need for factual and informative communication on all kinds of channels. The Chamber must, of course, also change with it. Too often hours of corona debates deal with small changes to lockdown packages, but there are no major long-term discussions. I don't want to close anything, but I do want to have the belief that what we want to establish with each other is happening. I would not want to do ten more subjects in four minutes, as I do now. Perhaps with rapporteurs we can ask the cabinet very deeply, we can hear experts and organise social debates, for which we do not have time at all. This lockdown must be a wake-up call for the Cabinet and for ourselves as a Chamber. I'm often very critical of the corona approach, but I'm also optimistic that things can be different. However, it must be done now. It is precisely now that we must seize the momentum to do something radically different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u134	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u135	Mrs Kuik often criticises the cabinet, and sometimes rightly so, I think. She herself often has good ideas about corona, so when her party and GroenLinks sat in that gazebo for weeks and concluded an agreement, I actually expected a little bit that I would read something about corona. It was 15 points but not a word about corona. You get the impression that the two parties didn't get along. What does that say now when PvdA and GroenLinks, two parties close together, have written nothing about the long-term approach to corona?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u136	It is good to know that Mrs Westerveld and I will be tabling a motion on this approach today. That is the way to deal with the criticism, which may well be justified. At the same time, I would also hope that such a proposal will be adopted by the coalition, because you have just outlined that it is time for a new governance culture. So believe in it and do not be cynical and critical about it. That is what I am going to do, and I expect broad support for our proposal, including from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u137	I also read Mrs Kuik's sharp criticism of the coalition agreement and therefore of the PvdA. This was mainly about the lack of texts on a long-term vision of corona. That makes me think that I would very much like to go wide with the Chamber and have a broad debate. That is why, like Mr Paternotte, I went to see what was written about it in the opposition agreement. There was nothing in there. Then I can go you-bake, but that's not constructive at all. Besides, how do we get through this dark time? I can also see it as a good intention to have a good conversation with each other and not just propose to blow up what the cabinet, perhaps quietly, does by saying'maybe we should consider vaccination obligation'. We could also, together with an IMT and the Social Planning Bureau, see what is needed in the long term. With a broader intervention with employers and employees, we can take those steps if corona remains among us. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Kuik the following. If she looks back on her agreement, does she see that opportunity and would she like to take that step instead of just telling us what the route is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u138	For a moment, I thought Mrs Bikker was advocating a vaccination requirement, but that's gonna be a slip of the tongue, so I'm gonna ignore that. Let's do it another way. I am not interested in what is or is not in the coalition agreement. I only find it remarkable that we have had a conversation with each other over the last few months and had to read in the newspaper this morning that this was hardly the case. I think that this is going to be the theme for the coming years and that it requires a fundamental approach. I am critical because I have repeatedly asked for an evaluation so that we can shape that long-term policy. Every time we make proposals, for example by telling the cabinet that we should start boostering earlier because it is necessary, or to vaccinate children with vulnerable health, it takes a lot of pushing and pulling to make decisions. We say that we need a long-term perspective on education, how we organise work and how we scale up care. We all ask that, but then it stays pretty quiet two years after the crisis. When I see that everyone is more than tired, extinct, and we're actually going through with the same string, I worry. So I am critical and at the same time I constantly make my own proposals for doing things differently. I have also said earlier that you will have to take tough measures, because there are tough times ahead. I don't feel so attracted to that. I would like to look at that outstretched hand, but I also have to see that there is reflection and learning and that things are going to be fundamentally different in the future. If we continue on the same path, I know one thing for sure: not only do people get tired, but then the whole society becomes despondent from lack of perspective. That is what I would like to raise. That means you need a fundamentally different approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u139	Then we understand each other and then we have a good conversation. It's about how we get through this with the whole society. That was my slight reference to the troika which, in a cabinet letter, pleads for the examination of a vaccination obligation. I am not in favour of this, because I think there are better measures, which do not undermine fundamental rights and which help us through this together. It is precisely then that it matters that we stick together and make constructive proposals, as I have done. I look forward to that. Let us also conclude an interruption in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u140	Okay. Then it is clear that the coalition parties are rather divided about how they want to deal with some fundamental issues, as we already knew. It doesn't matter. I think it's kind of a crazy angle. I want us to act very quickly now and that we don't get stuck in a speedy link here or one less speedy link. Eventually you won't make it in the next few years. We need to get out of crisis decision-making. It has to be changed, with other people. You have to take into account that the boostering and testing will continue. That's what we call together. We've been calling that out for over a year, but actually, not that much is changing. My second question is what makes this coalition going to make sure that some of the things we find together also become fundamentally different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u141	Thank you. I'll see if Mrs. Bikker needs to respond. No? Then I will go to Mrs Den Haan, from the Den Haan Group. She was a little earlier. Or do you agree, Mrs Den Haan, that Mrs Van den Berg is going a little earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u142	Thank you to Mrs Den Haan. I just wanted to respond to the point that apparently the coalition is divided, or whatever, and that she hasn't talked about this. On points on which you reasonably agree, you don't have to negotiate for so long. I think we all agree that we need to take on pandemic preparedness. What Mrs Kuik says, I also mentioned in my speech on behalf of the CDA. That is that we should also look at the structural elements and perhaps make very different choices. I'm just glad that Mrs. Kuik wants to look at society that way. In that sense, as a CDA, we fully agree with the PvdA: we have to do this together. We also tabled the motion on the social partners together. We need to work with employers and trade unions to see how we can tackle this structuralally. That's what I wanted to say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u143	We are in complete agreement on that "together." That's not my criticism. My criticism is that, two years after the start of the pandemic, we are on a dead end. My concern is that we will only continue to talk and that a fundamentally different approach will not be adopted, with new insights. I'm not talking about months. This has to be done in the coming month to make sure you get through these years. I don't see that happening yet. That's why I expected a little more from the coalition agreement. I didn't expect it to be boarded up, but I just expected a little more of it. If it's not in there, I expect it to happen in the next few weeks. If that is not the case, I fear the worst for all those entrepreneurs and for all those children who can't go to school. One small example. After that, I'm really gonna stop, Mr. Chairman. The press conference said that we need a plan of action for young people and for those who are now lonely. Well, that plan should have been there by now, 'cause they're at home now. They're depressed now, they don't know what to do with their time, they can't play sports, they can't go to the club and they can't do anything. Such a plan must therefore be prepared in advance. That's just one example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u144	Thank you. I'm gonna stop you right now. Mrs Van den Berg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u145	I think we are very much in agreement. I also argued last time that we should look much more closely at the medium and long term. That's what gives people a grip. People shouldn't feel attacked every time by what's going to happen. In my view, the Minister announced in December or late November that he would come to the Chamber with two proposals on this matter. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u146	A little critical, though. That plan was promised to us before the previous debate. That it's busy, I totally get it, but this shows exactly what the problem is. We're just putting out fires. Sometimes that's a little more successful than usual. I don't think boostering is a successful fire. We're always running behind the facts. I don't blame anyone personally, but if we all keep doing it the way we did it, that problem will remain the same in the coming months. We really can't afford that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u147	Thank you. Finally, Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u148	Yeah, I think that's a famous statement from Einstein: if you do what you've always done, you get what you've always got. So I think we should also take the lessons of the past few years. I think that was why the Minister said he would come forward with his proposals a little later, because he also wanted to bring the latest information on omikron.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u149	Yes, but we also said that we should start boostering. The delta variant also showed that the immunity went down slightly and the amount of antibodies went down slightly. This was called for on 3 November. That only lasted, that only lasted, and that only lasted. Then Omikron gave an extra reason. Even then it took longer than it had to be. And that's exactly what happens all the time. Because people live very much in the here and now and are too busy with all kinds of things, they just don't get away from looking at what is needed now, what needs to be organized and who needs to organize it. As a result, we do not need to create peace and space for the long term. A year ago, we also asked for a firm evaluation, to learn lessons. They do that in many countries. This has never really been taken seriously here in the Netherlands. We were almost laughed away. Well, these are the consequences we're seeing now. We could have moved on now and we could have had a perspective. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u150	Thank you. Mrs Den Haan, from the Den Haan Group, and then Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u151	I hear Mrs. Chicken asking for a corona minister. Now I think we have nineteen Corona Ministers in the House of Representatives, next to Minister De Jonge. But I also hear you say that you are in favour of a medium- and long-term strategy. We've all been doing that for a while in the House of Representatives. I think the Minister has promised to come up with that plan somewhere in February rather than before Christmas holidays. But I'm very much in favour of that, too. Would that not be in favour of the appointment of someone responsible for implementation, outside politics, so that we can discuss the main issues here, together with the Minister for Health?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u152	I am always very much in favour of ministers being assisted by highly qualified people and helping in the implementation, but at the same time someone has to answer here in the Chamber. I think Corona will still be with us for at least the next five years. Then let someone assume that responsibility, without having to deal with all kinds of other care tasks, so that they can look at society with a broader perspective. This means something for employment. That means something for education. That means something for how we're going to avoid further division. This means something for the way we deal with young people and young people. So I am very much in favour of experts, but I would like to leave the political responsibility with us in particular. I believe, on the contrary, that in recent times we have been a little too far removed from political responsibility, including in the way in which we have consistently dealt with the OMT. The OMT is giving an opinion, and we're following it. That made sense for a long time, but I can't do that anymore. It is precisely time for political choices. So I find your idea sympathetic, but a little less logical. I believe in more political responsibility rather than laying down responsibility in a place where you can lay down the implementation, but not the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u153	But that is exactly my point. You should leave the execution out of politics. That is not the case now. In fact, we are not talking about the political responsibility we stand for, namely for the broad lines of policy and for laws and regulations, including around corona. We are constantly talking about political responsibility for implementation, for small things. That should be different, which means that we, as well as the Minister for Health, will be assigned to the medium- and long-term strategy. I think there is only one question that is important: how do we go into the future? What's 2022 gonna look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u154	Yes. You know, I think it's a little searching with each other. I call for the release of one minister to take responsibility for all the corona issues that exist, to monitor them and to invest them properly. However, I would argue that RIVM and OMT should be less dependent on RIVM and OMT, as we have done for a long time. I think it is time to take more political responsibility. That therefore calls for a cabinet that has room to think about it, and that calls for a Chamber that organises itself differently, rather than having this kind of debate. We would have had more room to really have a conversation with each other instead of looking for exactly what we agree on and what we do not agree on. Because I think we are very close together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u155	I get the feeling that Mrs. Kikkie says: we're turning it into a coalition opposition thingy. I would really regret that, because I know Mrs Kuik as someone who comes up with proposals and who actually thinks about the whole corona policy. I would be sorry if the aftertaste of this discussion is "I have a coalition opposition thing," because I think Corona is too important to put it in such a game.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u156	If that's your aftertaste, I've done something wrong. I want to work together; that's what I said. I'm optimistic about that. I've done that in the past. I have made several proposals about both vaccination and boosters as well as the coronapas, because I want to keep an open eye on how we are going to keep this society alive. At the same time, I have also noticed that we often got zero on the record when I said: take room for evaluation now, take a step back, show learning ability and see what else you can do. If I said that tougher measures were needed, it was not always thankful. I certainly feel the need and opportunity to further shape the corona policy together, because that is what needs to be done. At the same time, I do expect that there will be a cabinet with ministers who do not close the door in advance, but who look at the opposition with an open eye and not only at proposals they need, but also at proposals the opposition makes and which it thinks are sensible for society, and that they really will be raised together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How do we prevent a new lockdown? That's what we were wondering about at GroenLinks a year ago. That's why, together with scientists, we wrote an initiative paper on how to contain a virus with very regular and low-threshold tests; a temporary test society. And although in the Netherlands this strategy was only reacted lukewarmly, several countries enthusiastically started a test society, for example Denmark and Portugal. Testing has become part of everyday life there to prevent infections. Our country lacks such a dot on the horizon. Ever since the first corona outbreak, we've been running after the crisis. That is the hope of people and the hopelessness makes them despondent. I'm receiving dozens of messages from people who are mentally vulnerable and afraid of loneliness. I'm receiving messages from desperatezzp'ers in the cultural sector who have to call off another performance. We all know examples of entrepreneurs who have to close their cases again. Mr. Chairman. I also see that this lockdown is hard on the rulers. I appreciate the fact that this time, however difficult that decision must be, there has been a precautionary action. But I am also calling for a new approach today. I hope the cabinet is prepared to do so. Because where the cabinet every time in metaphors dismisses the virus like it's a game we have to win, a puzzle that has to be laid, a tunnel with light at the end or a marathon where we have to pull one last sprint, the harsh reality is of course another. To stay in sports metaphors: we're a team that doesn't know exactly how many games to play and that doesn't exactly know the opponent either. We will have to learn to live with this uncertainty. But a good coach takes that time to refine the technique, improve the condition and above all ensure that the solidarity does not disappear. Because if we lose each other in this pandemic, we'll see the lasting effects of it. Mr. Chairman. With this lockdown, we buy time. But what are we gonna do with that? Yes, we need to booster as we speak, but the World Health Organisation also insists that more is needed. I ask the Cabinet not to bet on one horse and to make the long-term a priority right now. I'm making a move for this. Now make real work of scaling up care capacity. Why not return bonus for former caregivers? Why don't we take care of our people in health care? Now make real work of testing by further scaling up the capacity and bringing test locations closer to home. And where is the call for every Dutchman to be tested, especially with the new Omikron variant? Now make real work of the potential of mouth nose masks, for example by making FFP2 mouth caps mandatory. Now make real work of clear communication and ways to make sure that even more people are going to take that vaccine. Why don't you get a shot at testing for access? Now work on a new decision-making process. Why do we still stick to the order that decisions are taken first in the Catshuis, without minutes, and that the Chamber is not allowed to discuss them until after the decision has been made? How do we ensure that science and institutions are not manned by politics? (NL) Mr President, last but not least, make real work of a proper compensation scheme forzzp'ers, entrepreneurs and flex workers. Because many people are now losing heart and many people are now also financially sinking through the ice due to a lack of a safety net. Let's make sure that courage stays in our society. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u159	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u160	Mrs Westerveld mentioned the entrepreneurs, the cultural sector: all kinds of people for whom the lockdown is extremely heavy. Quite right. We shouldn't be too simple about that. It is also precisely the pop stages, the cultural sector and the arts '92 that have summoned us: don't throw that 2G in the trash, but use it to give us the chance to open earlier. I would like to ask Mrs Westerveld, because she is still thinking about it, whether she is looking at Germany, Austria and Sweden, where the Greens are in charge. All three countries have opted for 2G, Sweden even for 1G and Austria and Germany even for vaccination. Is she looking at such large steps, perhaps not going a little further than other masks or a slightly different process like a few examples from her own input? Is she in touch with that? She's been talking to them, too. That's the question I want to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u161	I expected this question. Of course, the majority of European countries do not have a 2G and in many places where they have a 2G policy they go to 2G-plus, especially with an uncertain omikron variant. Mr Paternotte asked: do you look at that? Yes, of course. There is a reason why we have submitted a comprehensive list of questions to the laws on, for example, 2G. We are asking about the justification, about effectiveness and also about efficiency. Because if you want to take this kind of far-reaching action, there must be a very good basis for that. We have not yet seen it convincingly. I believe that we should not rush to adopt a number of laws if we are not convinced of their effectiveness and of their proper justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u162	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. This was your last interruption, Mr. Paternotte. You've had your last interruption, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u163	My question was whether Mrs Westerveld consulted the Greens in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u164	You shouldn't say anything outside the microphone again. Mrs Westerveld is talking about her own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u165	Like Mr Paternotte, we are looking at a lot of other countries. That's what the Paternotte saw in my input. We also mention Denmark and Portugal, for example. Of course, different countries are difficult to compare. That was also what Mr Paternotte said in his contribution to the European Union because other measures are being taken everywhere, but we are looking at all these countries. We are looking at what works and what does not, and that is precisely why we have put a very long list of written questions in these laws. That's because we want to know what's going on with that justification, because we want to know what works and what doesn't, and because we want to learn from it. I think we should do that with each other. Our thinking shouldn't stop. We need to learn lessons from what other countries are doing to get through the corona crisis with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u166	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For everyone, the strict lockdown is heavy. For everyone who had been looking forward to a warm Christmas, for everyone who is lonely, for the employees in care, for the entrepreneurs, for the people in the cultural sector, and not least for the pupils and students who are now banned from school for the third time. The Party for Animals is very concerned about the short and long-term consequences of successive lockdowns for the mental well-being of young people. Is there sufficient visibility, I ask the cabinet, on how vulnerable young people are going? Can the Minister explain what effect he expects from the youth support package he has announced? It is unfair for one company to benefit from the lockdown, while the other goes under. Zzp'ers and SME entrepreneurs are having a hard time, while internet stores are having a heyday. Does the Minister still believe that a solidarity levy is not appropriate? Last year the Animal Party made this proposal. I am thinking of putting forward once again a proposal for a solidarity levy. Mr. Chairman. Omikron would not have been preventable, but we could have been much better off by now, with fewer hospital staff and better equipped care staff. Delta's approach was too long overdue, despite the fact that parties here in the Chamber warned for too many relaxations and had already called for the closure of certain non-essential sectors. Now Omikron is on the rise, while the hospital staff is still high and the staff are still walking on their toes. It is becoming increasingly clear that the capacity of care is lagging behind dramatically. What is the cabinet doing to accelerate capacity expansion in healthcare? I agree with the questions that GroenLinks asked about this. Mr. Chairman. At the press conference, the cabinet tried to show that we're all in the same boat together. The whole of the Netherlands is locked. The whole of the Netherlands? No, not all of Holland. Somewhere in North Holland an enclave is out of all power resisting the corona measures. That enclave is Schiphol. As we read in Noord-Holland News, you can buy bags, games, make-up and perfume at Schiphol Airport. Employees are very concerned about this. The Netherlands is at home, while shops, schools and restaurants are closed, but the unsuspecting traveler arriving at Schiphol will undoubtedly think that the Netherlands has completely eliminated corona. Nothing could be further from the truth. What, according to the Minister, justifies non-essential shops at Schiphol Airport that are open? And why should the catering industry at Schiphol Airport stay open? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the travel advice. We're asking people right now not to walk down the street with more than two people. At the same time we allow 300 people hut on each other in an airplane. Once again, we see that the cabinet does not accept all the advice of the OMT. The OMT advises not to travel for holiday purposes. Why does the cabinet not follow the OMT advice on holiday? And what are the risks of not following this OMT advice? Mr. Chairman. Finally, my group is deeply concerned about reports that the lockdown is less sporty, while scientists have been warning about the physical and mental consequences of lack of exercise since the start of the corona crisis. Just in a pandemic, people need to work out. But a society in which people get enough movement seems to be a key element for this cabinet rather than a starting point. What is the Cabinet going to do to promote sports in the lockdown? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u168	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are actually having this debate at a time when there is still a great deal of uncertainty, but waiting is not an option. There is still much unknown about the omikron variant and the infection is much higher; that much is certain. Much remains to be made clear about the burden of disease and the protection of vaccines. This was made clear by the cabinet in the press conference. But this uncertainty calls most for action now, for top acceleration of the boosters, but also for realism for the follow-up. There's not one route, one easy solution, to get out of here. It's gonna take more than that. Vaccinating helps, but it's not the whole answer. We also see this in the countries around us with a high vaccination rate. That is why my first appeal to the cabinet: do not jump into the trap of one solution. Keep investing in all these things: in testing capacity, in innovation related to medicines, air filtering, ventilation and protection for employees. And just invest in getting together, with the employers, with the unions, with the VNG. They, too, want to work on solutions for a long time to come through this time. That is why I ask the cabinet to take their sounds, their letters, positively as well. What is the intention of this cabinet to guarantee both public health and fundamental rights as effectively as possible? Focus on this on a long-term route, together with, for example, the SCP. Form an IMT instead of an OMT or next to an OMT. Looks at what works for the whole society. And yes, chairman, vaccination is absolutely an answer. Not the whole answer, but an important part. That is why I am asking people who have doubts about whether they have made the decision not to be vaccinated, to reconsider that in these reflective days, to think about whether they are going to stay there, whether that is sensible. For it is not only a decision about yourself; it is also about the people around you. I'm standing right there! I'm standing right there! Oh, for everyone's freedom to make that choice. And I will continue to do so. But the other way around, I think that this freedom is appropriate to ask yourself whether it is a good choice. That is a responsibility that we all stand for. That's why I'm calling. Mr. Chairman. For now, it is a good thing that the cabinet rapidly and decisively expands the support packages. These are the NOW for employees, the TVL for fixed charges and the Bbz for self-employed persons. At the same time, due to the long duration of the corona crisis, we are increasingly dealing with poignant cases, with entrepreneurs who were, for example, pregnant during the reference period, growing or have not yet started. We have drawn attention to this on several occasions from various groups. I see that steps are being taken, but I also see that these entrepreneurs have to wait, and so we also have to wait until the next quarter for more clarity, while this very group often faces the water. I say this with great respect to all those working on it, including many officials, day and night. But come to cabinet and also municipalities! Look to those distressing cases and trade mercifully, so that looking ahead to the future also applies to them. Mr. Chairman. Last week, our motion on testing was passed. That involved self-testing around the holidays. It is very nice that the cabinet is now encouraging this with a media campaign. I would say: not only for the holidays, but also after those holidays, if you meet your job again, for example. Let's hope that lockdown is over at some point, and it's over as soon as possible. So I say to the cabinet: please continue to promote testing after the important festive encounters in small circles. Mr. Chairman. The OMT examines whether the omikron variant requires other guidelines in the care of personal protective equipment. In the meantime, however, care workers continue to knock on our door with the announcement that they do not yet have sufficient protective masks such as FFP2 if they wish to use them, although this is stated in the directives. With the uncertainty surrounding omikron in mind, I would really like to ask the cabinet once again to insist that there are enough of these masks available. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank the cabinet for rapidly making it a new package with municipalities for the social and mental well-being of young people. But I would also like to ask that please keep your finger on the wrist, just when we see that the gloom strikes, for example, suicide prevention is really very important and there is discussion about the financial future of this line. So there's extra support there if it's necessary? Mr. Chairman. It's dark days around Christmas. And they're unmistakable, too. But at the same time we can be there for each other, we can bring light. The Christmas Gospel shows that the most beautiful thing: a very small stable, a very small baby, and what a light it brought! I think that we can all, perhaps with our own application, take an absolute example of this and let it shine light and be a blessing to each other. I wish you a very nice Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u170	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. She has traded with Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week several Wob-pieces came to the table via Newsuur. This brought back to the table the discussion on the strategy that the outgoing cabinet has pursued and may still be pursuing in the fight against this pandemic, with the question of whether or not group immunity has been deliberately pursued and whether or not a strategy can be discussed at all. There is no such thing as clarity. Volt therefore asks the cabinet once again: what has the strategy really been? Society has the right to public access to documents and to sound information. Therefore, in the context of this new governance culture, Volt is in favour of making the interim results of the OVV report public. I'd like to know what we have to do to get it. Mr. Chairman. The booster campaign. It's a good thing the Cabinet uses the lockdown to run down lost time. I'd like to get a response from the Minister on the following. Volt calls on the cabinet to include general practitioners, pharmacists and military in this booster campaign and to quickly remove unnecessary rules that delay the campaign. We are now, as it were, more affected by bureaucracy than by the pandemic. Mr. Chairman. Then the booster campaign in relation to vaccinating the world. Last week, we read in a letter of inquiry that the booster campaign has timed the donations to COVAX. The importance of rapid boosters is enormous, but we must not forget that it is omikron, a mutation from southern Africa, which has now brought us into this situation. How does the Minister ensure that we continue to support both boosters and other countries quickly? And how can the cabinet make an extra effort to build infrastructure in recipient countries? We know that it is often not in order. Mr. Chairman. Before I go further on the future strategy, a short but important point: the FFP2 masks. German research shows that they protect significantly better than fabric caps or other mouth nose masks. Yet we still see these fabrics masks everywhere. What's the Cabinet doing with this? How does the cabinet weigh that German investigation? Mr. Chairman. I started my speech on the strategy and I want to talk now about the strategy to be implemented. There is such a need, from the ESC, from VNO-NCW and the trade unions, from entrepreneurs who sit in their reserves and watch their savings evaporate, from students who are back home and from our care workers. I therefore ask the cabinet where it wants to stand on 14 January and what the strategy will be from then on. What perspective does the cabinet offer for after 14 January? What scenarios does the cabinet see, following the WRR and the KNAW, ready for this? What exactly is the cabinet going to send for? Still on hospital capacity? Or does the cabinet want to stick more strictly to the precautionary principle and to control infections? And if the cabinet is going to send for infections, how many infections, especially now that omikron doesn't seem less sickening than delta? What about the long-term strategy? What vision is this strategy based on? In other words, what kind of society does the cabinet want to work towards with this strategy? Can the Minister give us a picture of that society? I would particularly like to hear this from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has declared a lockdown, and it just couldn't be otherwise. The fact that the Netherlands has now been the first country to take this decision is precisely the result of the lack of a clear strategy, with a care sector that, more than in other countries, was ready for a lockdown weeks ago. Does the Minister agree? Finally, Mr President. Volt hopes that the cabinet will use this lockdown to set up a clear strategy, to set a course in which human suffering is at the heart of the matter, to work out how the cabinet will cope with the crisis in different scenarios and to take into account the prevention of and the onset of delayed care. In short, a strategy that controls as little contamination as possible and thereby a strategy that guides the avoidance of unexpectedly having to make painful choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u172	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Whether you believe that corona is very dangerous or not and whether you believe that the vaccines work or are dangerous, everyone in the Netherlands feels that many things of the policy pursued are not right and illogical, inconsistent, often contradictory and inexplicable. When Prime Minister Rutte was asked why the supermarkets had to close at 8 p.m., he said: I wouldn't know, but we did so last time. Van Dissel also gave such an answer when he was asked why the third shot would be protected. He said, "The short answer: we don't know that yet" and then there was some half-vague argument that no one could tie a rope to. I hear a lot of people around me who have taken those first two shots, like a lot of people here, and who now have something like: yes, why should we take that third shot with this kind of support, or actually without support? That's right. There are a lot of people who have decided not to take that third shot, especially because of this kind of thing. That's very good. Hopefully this is the moment when a lot of people wake up massively. Because this is never gonna go away. There will always be new rounds of pricking and pricking and pricking and this policy has nothing to do with public health. That must be clear at some point. Let me give you some examples. It's always the conversations you have with each other why this or why that happens. No one gets it. Why does the catering industry always have to close if according to the RIVM itself there are hardly any infections? Why is there so much panic about that omikron variant when everything indicates that it's milder, that the symptoms that are there are sore throats, headaches and a clogged nose? Why do shops get shut down in the old days and people go shopping clustered and you, if you believe in the danger of this virus, get people closer together? And why hasn't the ic capacity been increased for two years? Why was a plan rejected by the Ministry in September to realize 100 extra ic-beds? I thought we were taking care of it. Why do we now have more hospitalizations and more infections than last year, when according to the Minister 85% of the population would have been pricked? Why does Van Dissel say this morning in the technical briefing that the Jansen vaccine remains the most effective, but does the Minister choose not to use that vaccine as a booster? We don't believe in the effectiveness of those vaccines at all, but you do. This is completely inexplicable, isn't it? It's all really weird, isn't it? Let's see what's happened over the past two years. You can't explain all this, can you? Is this government completely incompetent and unable to make a logical assessment, or is there something else going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u174	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs De Vries, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u175	It's a lot of words about what can't be explained or should have been. What I cannot explain is that Forum apparently organises an illegal Christmas market. Personally, I think that is quite an insult to all the entrepreneurs who have just closed down, and I do not understand how you can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u176	I think it's a shame that the VVD forced all those entrepreneurs to close down, because that's how it is. Those entrepreneurs do not choose to close, they are closed by your party and D66 and the CDA and the Christian Union and all the other parties involved. Now, that's a ruse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u177	Then I really wonder why Forum apparently thinks they're above the law and above the rules. You cannot agree at all with the rules that are being made here in this Parliament, but apparently you do not care at all. I do not think that is fair to all those entrepreneurs who follow the rules properly. If the mayor asks me not to let this go on, then I think it's a shame of the enforcer not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u178	You can find that a ruse...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u179	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u180	Mrs De Vries may find it offensive, but once again, your policy prevents these people from opening up. We call on everyone to remain open. All these entrepreneurs should just celebrate life, all people should just be able to do what they want, because it doesn't make any sense what we're doing. We're talking about a flu virus. It has the same mortality as the flu, it has the same burden on the care as the flu and it takes place in the same season as the flu, October-April. All the characteristics are the same, the symptoms are the same. We're just talking about a flu virus that's elevated to some kind of pandemic, whereas it's been below the epidemic line since May last year. It doesn't make any sense what we're doing right now, does it? Of course, these people must not comply with the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u181	I'd like to spend another interruption on it. Forum simply calls for lawlessness, let me conclude that that is what it is. However, as regards the statement that it is as bad as a flu virus, I have often said to Forum: for a flu virus we have never had to take any action. We vaccinate the vulnerable every year and for the rest life goes on pretty well. I find the comparison that corona is the same as flu extremely bad, and I would call for it to be withdrawn. If we did nothing, the burden of disease and the number of deaths would be much higher than what we are doing now to protect the vulnerable and keep care open. I would like to call once again for Forum to stop this kind of nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u182	So it's a flu virus. It's a variant of a flu virus. A coronavirus is a type of flu virus. It is similar to a heavy flu, if you look at the number of deaths and the occupation on the care. Also in previous years we have been against code black. This is, of course, due to the structural scaling down of the care that has taken place under these cabinets. So we've been through this a lot, including the influenza virus. We can see it now with this corona virus. In that respect, it is not very different. Anyone can recognize that, too. The last time I saw you, you recognized it in the Chamber. The mortality of this virus is simply the same as that of a strong flu virus. Also the number of deaths that have fallen in heavy flu seasons is identical to the corona seasons now, but we count them and in flu viruses we traditionally count them per season. But if you add it up, you'll get the same numbers. Then you say that perhaps that is the case, and that is what you may acknowledge, but that is because we have taken measures. But that is a completely unsubstantiated thesis. In fact, there are numerous scientific papers that do statistical research into different locations, cross-national, which show that they are not. In America, different states have different policies. Florida, which is just open, has fewer infections than Vermont, which is completely punctured and where everyone is at home in a lockdown. It is simply clear that these measures have no or hardly or even counterproductive effect, as a British study showed, on the number of deaths and infections. This is unsubstantiated. Well, at least you can support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u183	Thank you. I would like to make one more point. Just in the interrupting debate, it looked like you were pushing people into an unlawful act. I assume that is not the case. That would also be contrary to our Rules of Procedure. I hope that is a misunderstanding and that you can rectify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u184	We call for civil disobedience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u185	But that is something else, I hope, otherwise I will take a real offense than you are against the law and against the rules that we have democratically agreed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u186	Yes, the law is as it is and hopefully we can change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u187	Thank you. That's a good answer, I think. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u188	Why do you think that the only time the Democracy Forum can predict what will happen, that we will be right again and again? Why do you think we knew before the summer that there was going to be another lockdown, when half of you and the Netherlands were convinced that it was over by now that we had poked everyone? No, that wasn't over. That's not how it works. There's just going to be lockdowns again. We're just back in the next flu season. It was a conspiracy theory. Now we're back in the middle of it. I know so many people who thought before the summer: I'll take that shot, because then we'll be done with it. Those people are now stunned that we're back in a lockdown, when it was obvious that it was going to happen again. So I would also like to appeal to those people and also to all of you. Those people have systematically believed in this government. They've put their hopes on people who've deceived them. Soon they'll be called up again for a third shot. Think for yourself. You probably thought it would be done with two shots last time, but you didn't. Every time the same story: last another three weeks; last another month; we're almost out; a few more stings. It's not gonna stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u189	I'd like you to finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u190	Yes. So it doesn't stop. We just have to choose to stop this. We must choose to lift the measures and start living again. That's why I call on all people. Wake up. Don't get those shots. Give your friends and family an extra big hug. Celebrate Christmas and life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u191	Does Mr Jansen think that OMT believes in conspiracy theories?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u192	I don't know exactly what's going on in those people. I just tried to have a little chat with Jaap van Dissel and that wasn't possible. He was acting really weird and angry when we were just trying to talk facts. He did not want to respond to numerous papers making statistical analyses of these measures. I'd like to send those papers, too. You may have seen them, too. They show that those lockdowns, the mouth caps and social distancing have little or no effect on the spread of the virus. At least he wasn't open to that at all. He even got a little bossy about it. I thought it was really weird. I thought it was a little uncomfortable, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u193	The reason I am asking that question is because Mr Jansen is now saying that the Forum for Democracy was the only group that warned against a lockdown in autumn of this year and that no one else saw it coming. Now I happen to know that in the spring, just before the summer, the OMT was already talking about the so-called autumn effect and that we should be very aware of it. If we did not anticipate it enough, serious measures might have to be taken again. That is why my group has already called for different scenarios to be developed to prevent a new lockdown. You bring it as if it were then dismissed as a conspiracy theory. I believe that the OMT itself has pointed it out and my group, like other groups, has brought it up. Do we believe in these conspiracy theories? Does the OMT believe in these conspiracy theories? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u194	I should take note of the coverage of that time, but I remember that at the time the voting was as follows: we need to take all kinds of measures now, or else... It is not at all about the measures, which was precisely the point of just getting rid of it, because it is just a seasonal flu that comes back every year, and that was dismissed as a conspiracy theory. Maybe that's where the nuance comes in. The fact that this is a recurring seasonal virus was continuously dismissed as conspiracy theory. They said if we stick enough shots now, it's over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u195	Thank you, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u197	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. Mrs. Kuik said "respect" and I think we all have that for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u198	Yeah, about wearing my heels, but I have to admit, they're under my bench and I'm wearing sneakers for the rest of the time. I appreciate it, thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Do not panic based on the peak of the day. Not a week after I made this call, we're in a lockdown. I open with the heart cry of a morning magazine: "The lives of more than seventeen million Dutch people are held hostage because our healthcare system is blocked if there are not already 2,400 corona patients in hospitals. Therefore, make real work of increasing ic capacity or building corona hospitals. Break the bureaucracy and deal with poaching. It is a shame that we are always the slowest boy in the class with vaccination and we have about the least number of ic-beds per 10,000 inhabitants throughout Western Europe." It's been taken from my heart. A great deal of misunderstanding has already been expressed about the mess we've been in, so I'm gonna leave it at that. For my contribution, I focus on three important points: the schools, the entrepreneurs and the vaccination campaign. The schools are closed. I would just like to point out once again that sitting at home hits particularly vulnerable students hard. Fortunately, this Chamber agrees that closing schools is an emergency hold. The primary schools in the municipality of Staphorst have installed air filters in the classrooms, which filter aerosols from the air. Eindhoven University of Technology monitors the air quality on the effect of this air treatment. For JA21 it is worthwhile to run a pilot with these schools in collaboration with the university. If they are allowed to open after the regular Christmas holidays, the lockdown can check whether these air filters have an effect without long interruption. Is the Minister prepared to give the green light for a possible pilot with these schools and to make the necessary resources available for that purpose? My group also calls for attention to be paid to entrepreneurs. One day, thousands of SMEs andzzp'ers are falling on the roof to hear the Prime Minister say that there is no more support, because a lockdown would be an entrepreneurial risk. That's not what JA21 wants. On the other day, the cabinet appears to be coming up with a new support package. But this is a tissue for bleeding. It is about entrepreneurs who, in another difficult year, have made every effort to keep their business, their business, their shop up and running. Entrepreneurs have put their savings into it, stuck up to their necks in debt and face new uncertainty due to unpredictable measures and rules that cannot be followed. Can the Minister explain why the government does not offer room for providing sensible customization, such as receiving from customers by appointment? Then there's the vaccination campaign. Like ic-chief Armand Girbes of UMC Amsterdam, I also don't understand why the government uses so little imagination and improvisation power to fully engage in the booster campaign. There are school buildings empty and there are plenty of volunteers who want to prick. Our group, too, continues to get a lot of reports on tough procedures. During this morning's briefing, it was denied that unnecessary bureaucracy is moving forward. That's what I'm hoping for. Can the Minister guarantee that at the end of January the vulnerable groups in particular received their booster? Finally, there is the over-death rate. A motion was passed unanimously on the study of the excess mortality rates. There is public concern about the causes: corona, heart attack or even vaccine side effects. Of course, the latter does not help to get scared non-stickers across the line. We would like to see this uncertainty put an end to it in the short term. It is therefore important that a thorough investigation should be carried out as soon as possible. How and when will the Minister implement this motion? Finally, I would like to end with a call from former President Donald Trump of the United States: get that booster!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u199	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u200	Madam President. In these dark days before Christmas, beautiful songs often sound and beautiful lyrics are quoted about light in darkness, about Jesus, the child of Christmas, as the light of the world. That is also what I believe wholeheartedly. But last Saturday it struck me that someone put their finger on not such beautiful texts by the biblical prophet Joel. He said, "When I read that, I had to think about our time." It says, "The land mourns, the joy is doomed." Very recognizable, that withering of joy. Still in a lockdown. It's hard on all of us, but it's very hard on some of us. I would like to draw your attention to this today. Think on the one hand of care workers, who are asked a great deal, but also of so many young people in the country who are suffering from depressed feelings, loneliness or simply despair. You read that back in reports and you see alarming numbers. A quarter of young people are mentally unhealthy. More than half of the students suffer from psychological or emotional exhaustion problems. It's crucial for young people, for students to keep meeting. My question is: are the municipalities really going to have the space and the incentive to shape that meeting? There has been a lot of investment in boas, but is there also an increase in investment in youth workers? Is there really so little known about the effectiveness of measures that we once again limit group size on the street to just two people? This makes meeting young people in the outdoors virtually impossible. Entrepreneurs are hit hard again, now they have to hang the sign "closed" in front of the window. Last time, the shop was closed until April. We cannot leave entrepreneurs without perspective at home for so long. The SGP calls for proportionate refinement of the rules. We say, at least make shopping possible by appointment for the retail trade, consider a maximum number of visitors per square meter. I refer to the advice of the Security Council. Now that care is already in the red, there is a new variant that breaks right through the supposed immunity. About Omikron is still much unknown. I assume, so I ask the cabinet, that as soon as we know more, a new weighing moment will follow and that will not be awaited until 14 January. It is clear that the corona virus remains among us for a longer period of time. The SGP has often said that we must therefore take measures that are as effective as possible, cause as little damage as possible and can last as long as possible. I should like to briefly highlight three points today, which in our view also require that booster, which is an additional incentive, which drives us forward. One. Good ventilation. Get good ventilation and air purification at all schools as soon as possible. Make extra budget available for this. Delete the compulsory co-financing. Get national direction. If we can booster the whole country in a month and a half, then should we be able to boost the ventilation in schools at the same time? Two. Make FFP2 mouth caps available for the whole care as soon as possible. The Ministry has stock. Get those things out of the boxes. Three. Work towards a sustainable increase in care capacity, taking into account an annual corona wave, new virus variants and reduced vaccine activity. There too, the extra incentive with more direction is really needed. Finally, Mr President. With omikron we ended up in a scenario that the cabinet had previously not taken into account. The booster shot appears to be the new life buoy, but it is unclear to what extent and for how long it is effective against infections and hospitalisations. So we can't just stare at this. We need a longer-term plan. How do we want to live with Corona? This is a task for the cabinet, but also for the House of Representatives. Let us have this fundamental debate soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u201	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u202	Thank you, Mr President. At the end of 2021 it was announced that the Netherlands will lock again. Nowhere in the world are tougher measures than in the Netherlands. What a misery for our entrepreneurs who are now forced to close their business again. What a tragedy for our young people who will once again suffer from educational disadvantages, loneliness, depression and burn-outs. What a drama for all those people who were looking forward to Christmas and old and new, to be together again with family and friends. What a tragedy for the Netherlands, which is the victim of ruthless policies of the Demissionary Prime Minister and the Demissionary Minister of VWS. Mr. Chairman. What's the reason for this? The rise of the omikron variant. In the past year we have seen a number of variants pass by. When the alpha variant, better known as the British variant, appeared in January 2021, the Netherlands was scared with almost 170,000 new infections per day. Then came the beta variant, also called the South African variant. Once again, there was panic. We had to get a no-fly order. In part of the Chamber there was an illusion that we could keep this variant out of the door. Nothing else turned out to be true. Then came the Brazilian variant. This was later called the gamma variant. The OMT expected this variant to be 49% more contagious. But this variant was defeated by the Indian variant in no time. This one is better known as the delta variant. This variant was still 40% to 60% more contagious and therefore even more dangerous. When the delta variant appeared, we were in April 2021. Mr. Chairman. We have skipped a number of Greek letters, but now we are in the omikron variant. You can already guess: this variant is even more contagious and therefore even more dangerous than all other variants. Mr. Chairman. The rhetoric to create panic and fear in society has now become a grayened record. It is now waiting for the next variant. When we are at the last letter of the Greek alphabet, the so-called zèta variant, we probably don't know much about it yet. However, we know that this variant is even more contagious and even more dangerous. When that's over, we'll probably switch to the Arab alphabet, and then we'll really have the dolls dancing. Mr. Chairman. The outgoing Prime Minister and, unfortunately, our future Prime Minister now has a great credibility problem. Confidence in the corona approach is only 15%. This is the kind of numbers you should be talking to yourself about. What went wrong? Where did I make a mistake? Then nothing fits but self-reflection and listen to the criticism from the Chamber. Once again, I see that both directors prefer to look on their cell phones. Mr. Chairman. This Prime Minister and this VWS minister have failed. In order to conceal their failure, they tried to save the last bit of their credibility at the last press conference by calling Van Dissel. It didn't get any better, as Van Dissel's message was that there is so much uncertainty that we actually know little and that the models would be based too much on assumptions. But, Mr President, let me make one thing clear. My group understands very well that corona exists and that we have to arm ourselves against it. Doing nothing is not an option. We must dare to make the fundamental choice. But please stop sowing fear and panic, because every time the numbers get up or threaten to get up, we can panic the country and see which group we can blame again. Whether or not that's the choice of DENK we can accept that we have to learn to live with the coronavirus and we work on scaling up the ic-capacity and start boostering the vulnerable groups in time, on a voluntary basis. Where is the long-term strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u203	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am well aware of how hard this lockdown is for all those entrepreneurs who need it right from this period. They're gonna get another huge blow. The Corona Support Packages go on until the first quarter of next year, but I fear that this is not enough to cope with all the misery. I trust that the support packages will last as long as necessary. However, I would like to appeal to the Cabinet to compensate entrepreneurs for all the unsustainable stocks bought for Christmas. I would also like, like Mr Theunissen, to ask the cabinet to look at a form of solidarity tax for companies that have benefited heavily from the corona virus. Then the booster campaign: too late, not well anticipated and no tight direction on the implementation. Only 300 of the 35,000 non-mobile home residents have been boosted. Will it be possible to get this vulnerable group and the residents of health care institutions out of medical service by the end of this year? The Minister still states that all 60-plusers can receive a booster shot by January. After all, more and more time slots are added. In the technical briefing, however, we heard this morning that there is not enough staff at the GGD to man the call centers. Amazing, because we've known forever that this force is needed. Older people aren't always dignitary and have to sit on the phone for hours to get poked earlier. How quickly is the total occupation of the GGD in order? Then a list of all kinds of questions. The Minister has promised to look into whether job seekers who want to do volunteer work in healthcare can do so without UWV's obstructive rules. How's that going? In the previous Corona debate, I asked about the state of play regarding the use of antiviral medicines. How far along is that? Then the people who are under 60 years of age with vulnerable health. The Dutch Patient Federation is receiving a lot of reports that these people are very worried about whether they will receive the promised text message with the invitation for the booster shot on Thursday. Where can they report if this is not the case? The amount of overdue care that has arisen is considerable. I'm very worried about that. People have to wait too long for heart surgery, kidney surgery or, for example, removal of a tumor. This is going to cause enormous economic damage, but also major health damage and a greatly reduced quality of life. In my view, that's even worse. More people will die in the medium and long term. I really think that we should have a debate on this with each other in the short term. There is a recovery plan for catching up, which was updated in November. It states that urgent care must continue for as long as possible. There is also limited care catching up, but the overdue care is only rising. Can the Minister tell me how many overdue operations there are at the moment? Has the recovery plan been adapted in the context of omikron? Is it taken into account that the flow to rehabilitation care, nursing care and home care should also be possible? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to know one more thing about the Minister. I have already asked for a medium- and long-term corona strategy before the summer. What does 2022 look like? Are there any scenarios in place? Are there any roadmaps ready to prevent us from encountering immense implementation problems again? Christmas is coming. Fortunately I see many people around me who make it extra cozy at home and row with the belts they have. But we must also realise that there are a lot of people who are alone, who are not healthy or who have financial problems. Let us make them feel supported at Christmas. Send me a ticket, bring some goodies or whatever. A small gesture is of great importance right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u205	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u206	Thank you. Mr President, residents, and this time special entrepreneurs, of the Netherlands. Behind every non-essential store is a person, a face, a human. A human being who does something very common, namely working for his pennies and supporting his or her family. There is no such thing as a non-essential store. Mr. Chairman. That said, another lockdown. It's hard, but it's true. Again, I hear people, even in this room, giving up on the unvaccinated. It's their fault. No, it's not their fault. It's our fault. In a country where there are plenty of hospital beds, families, friends, neighbours and colleagues do not have to fight each other out. In a country where there is structuralally sufficient care staff, families, friends, neighbours and colleagues do not have to fight each other out. In a country where the government invests structurally in care, in full width, families, friends, neighbors and colleagues don't have to fight each other out. In a country where care is in order, we do not have to blame others. Even now that the vast majority of the Netherlands have been vaccinated, there is still a healthcare attack. That's what happened when no one was vaccinated. That care infarct was there at times and lately also in the many years before, when there was no covid at all. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate, I already asked and I am going to ask again. When do the outgoing minister and the outgoing prime minister say: "Dear people in the Netherlands. We have driven you into a lockdown again, because we have still not been able to make the care in the Netherlands pandemicproof. Because we've made sure we still don't have eyes on the virus. Because this summer we failed to press vaccinated people to the heart that a green check mark was not a v of freedom, but a v of responsibility. Because then we forgot to emphasise the basic measures. And because we started boosters way too late. Please, just hang in there, and then we're gonna get to work really hard to get the Netherlands back on its feet, in all areas." Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot here about the lack of logic of many measures. I'll add another one. Grandpa and/or Grandma should not see more than four children or grandchildren for a few hours this Christmas. They can spend a few hours on a plane to Spain with two hundred others on packed terraces and in crowded streets with thousands of strangers shopping and eating. Can the outgoing minister explain the logic to the grandfathers and grandmothers in the Netherlands? Why wasn't someone called not to go on vacation like last year? That was advised by the OMT on December 18th. Finally, Mr President. In spite of everything, I would like to wish the people of the Netherlands a very merry Christmas. I sincerely hope you have your loved ones around you. I hope you're together instead of playing it apart. Mr. Chairman. I'm also part of the government I've been talking about before. Although the cabinet is responsible for implementing the measures, I too have not been able to ensure that this Christmas light came rather than a dark shadow. Maybe that was because of the wrong choices I made myself earlier this year. Therefore, I would like to apologize to you. I am sorry that we have not put things in order here and that you in the Netherlands are punished every time with these murky measures. I sincerely hope that 2022 will be a better year for you and for us than 2021 was. Above all, I hope that we in The Hague can make a major contribution to this, in all respects, starting with a long-term vision in which care, health, well-being and looking back are at the forefront of each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u207	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Then we'll suspend for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u208	Mr. Chairman. The panic lockdown set last Saturday is unnecessary, visionless and very damaging. Our free society is destroyed by scared bureaucrats who don't look at the facts. They block solutions, ignore medical and economic collateral damage and are not prepared to weigh the risks in a normal way. It's ruled on the basis of fear and panic. That's unacceptable. It is a fact that there are not enough ic-beds. Marcel Levi has been pleading for scaling up for a long time. The doctor Lucas Paanakker has even started a citizens' initiative for this, which is strongly supported on our website www.bvnl.nl. It is a fact that this policy of the cabinet is causing more deaths. How many years of life will be destroyed this time? More or less than 520,000 from the previous lockdown? And it is a fact that the omikron variant is no justification for this harsh panic lockdown, which brings the catering industry, the hairdressers, the retail trade, the florists and the rest of SMEs to the brink of the abyss. Can the Prime Minister imagine what it's like to have all the shopping done as an entrepreneur, then to hear that everything can go into the trash? Freedom is not without obligation, no, but neither is maladministration. BVNL awaits the parliamentary survey. After that, we rely on a harsh judge's verdict. Can the Prime Minister explain to me what exactly changed between Tuesday's press conference and Saturday's press conference? The fact is that mass vaccination is not the solution. The vaccination of healthy young people has hardly any effect on the ic occupation and the vaccination of children is downright criminal. Can the Minister explain to me again why he wants to vaccinate children with all the violence? Mr. Chairman. It is a fact that the QR pass leads to discrimination and false security. Can the Prime Minister explain what protection the QR pass still offers, now that vaccinations no longer work and AstraZeneca no longer protects against omikron at all? We have no problem with the corona virus, but with failing drivers. We are lucky that it is not a war, or a real crisis, because with these people at the helm we have lost our lives in vain. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u209	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about 45 minutes to prepare for the response. I'm suspending the meeting until 3:35 p.m. I'd like to ask the directors to answer the questions directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u210	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. For the first term of office, I shall be the first to give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u211	In the division of roles, after Hugo de Jonge, Stef Blok, the minister of EZK, will discuss all kinds of questions about support and support packages. After me comes Hugo de Jonge, who will answer the questions about VWS and the ventilation in education. I'll do the other questions myself. I'm not going to repeat the press conference. We're gonna get to the questions in a minute. But let me just say one sentence: in Europe we are all pretty much in the same boat. At 12.45 p.m., there was a report that the German RIVM advised to introduce maximum contact restrictions ab sofort. So you can see that all of Europe is currently struggling with the omikron variant. I'd like to do it this way, Mr. Chairman. Some questions have been asked about the strategy. Hugo de Jonge will go into that, but I will say a few things myself. I would also like to address a number of questions about the position of young people and vulnerable people. And then there is a series of "other questions." I'll start with the strategy. As you know, these are: monitoring the virus to the maximum and thus keeping the care open to other care that needs to be provided, protecting vulnerable people, and ensuring that we keep an eye on the virus. This means that we are trying to stamp out new outbreaks through source and contact research as soon as possible. A long-term vision is under way. It is planned for the end of January. In it we look at a number of things: how do we keep a longer-term view of the virus and what is needed periodically for contact-limiting measures? Lockdowns are not entirely excluded, but we can try to avoid the risks as much as possible. The second is, what can we do to arm ourselves against the virus? Then, of course, vaccination is important. We are pleased with the signs that an update of the vaccine is under way towards the end of the first quarter, beginning of the second quarter. Against this background, there is also the watch flaming, consisting of the instruments of corona access tickets, 2G, 3G and, of course, the basic measures. The third point is that we need to better organise care and society on living with the virus. This also means the scaling up and down of care capacity across the full width. These are certainly the ic's, but of course also the nursing home care, home care and the general practitioners. Those three lines, Hugo de Jonge, will continue to address this issue in such a way that the long-term strategy is designed. If I may summarize that domestic, it comes down to the following. One. If the infections are somewhat under control, there is the watchflame to prevent it from flickering. But once again, new variants like omikron are unfortunately not completely excluded.It's still erratic, and they'll probably break through; that's what you see all over the world now. Two. Vaccines, testing and tracing, in order to keep things under control as well as possible in the longer term. Against this background, I would like to start with the questions that have been asked about the position of vulnerable young people. Research carried out by the CBS shows...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u212	I'm just interrupting to ask if you're done with the strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u213	Yes. Hugo de Jonge goes into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u214	I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV and then to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u215	A letter was sent to us just before the debate. That letter was called "Offers for optimising care capacity and the emergency order omikron'. For a moment I was very surprised and thought: now it's going to happen. Anyway, that letter says that the cabinet is going to set up an expert team and a task force. Of course, I am not opposed to that at all, but I think it is time we got hoof or calf. It is important for the Prime Minister to tell us now that he is going to invest in increasing capacity in intensive care, that zero percent of hospitals' volume growth limits will be dropped next year, and that, when it comes to new basic agreements on which he writes in his new coalition agreement, he is going to turn his back. And also that, when it comes to catching up, the bill is not placed on the sign of the insurers, with whom it ends up in the care premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u216	Now everything's getting mixed up. The coalition agreement does not cut back on care, not a dime. There is a lot of extra money going to healthcare, but we are putting a brake on it because we also want to continue spending money on safety, education and other matters. Furthermore, there is an enormous amount of work going on. Hugo de Jonge will really go into this later on, along two lines, namely the booster campaign itself and also in the care sector. What should happen if forecasts remain poor? We assume with the lockdown that we have a good chance to come out somewhat reasonable, but you don't know that for sure. That is why we are working terribly hard to ensure that we are also able to meet a further demand for care, hospital beds and ic-beds in the short term. That's for the shorter term. For the longer term, as I have just outlined, one of the traces of our long-term strategy is: what needs to be flexible ic capacity, but also the wider care capacity to deal with pandemics?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u217	We can all have semantic discussions about whether or not healthcare is being cut, but we all know what has happened in recent years: 19 intensive cares away, in the five years before the crisis 914 ic nurses away. If we had, it would have been better. Wherever I am concerned, whatever discussions we can have about the coalition agreement and whatever kind of plus and whatever kind of mince, it is very concrete: when it comes to the coalition agreement, there is no investment in ic capacity. Last week, my group chairman tabled a motion here to at least increase the ic capacity to the average in Europe. That motion has been dissuaded, and it has been rejected. It is not in the cabinet's future plans either. I also specifically ask about the 0% volume growth limit for hospitals next year, for 2022. It's still in the books. New basic agreements are in the books, are in the new coalition agreement. They're supposed to be worth 1.5 billion. So the hospitals are gonna turn in more. Then I'll take care of the catch-up. Minister De Jonge says the insurers have to solve that. They're gonna put that in the bounty, of course. I would like a concrete answer to these three parts of the Minister. Don't beat around the bush. No semantic discussion about whether or not healthcare is being cut back, according to him. I would like to hear from the Minister what he is going to do with the structural increase in ic capacity to at least the European level. What's he gonna do with the volume growth limit for the hospitals next year? What will he do with the new key agreements for hospitals in the coalition agreement? And what's he gonna do with catching up? Is he prepared not to deposit that account with the insurers and the contributors?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u218	There will be no cuts in care, I say again. What we need to achieve is to keep the enormous increase in costs under control and to slow down somewhat, but then there will still be a lot of extra money going to healthcare. In the coming years extra money will go to healthcare anyway, for example in the coalition agreement 300 million extra...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u219	Mr President, I asked very specifically to invest in ic capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u220	I'd still like a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u221	I'm not getting a concrete answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u222	I hadn't even started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u223	Investing in ic capacity, removing 0% volume growth for hospitals next year, abandoning new basic agreements for hospitals and, in the case of catching-up care, not putting the bill with insurers, because then the premium will go up. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u224	The Prime Minister had just not finished his reply. So I'm gonna give him a chance to do that, and then you can respond to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u225	I hadn't even started. Mrs Agema has now repeated her questions three times, but that does not speed up the answer. And I always try to do it as quickly as possible, because I serve her, so she knows, always immediately. First of all, care is not being cut back. That's what she keeps saying. That is not the case, but we must work together to ensure that we control the increase in costs. A lot of money will be invested in pandemic preparedness in the coming years. This also includes the flexibility of scaling up of ic capacity, so we are working on this. Then you can grow the ic capacity with what is needed at some point. Getting to some sort of European average is a crazy idea anyway, because that would mean that many ICU beds are empty and you don't get staff for that. Moreover, you have to look at how other countries have set it up. In Germany you have a lot of ic-beds, but there you have a lot less medium-carebeds as we have them in the Netherlands. So there are also major differences between these health care systems. So let us not make this comparison with other countries too quickly. It is true that, on average, we have less ic capacity than neighbouring countries. That is not the reason why we are now going into lockdown, because, as I have just outlined, the Germans have also been advised to proceed to maximum contact protection, as soon as possible. Then the second point, the catching-up care. It's crucial. This will be the subject of discussions with hospitals and insurers along the normal lines in the near future. Furthermore, for the longer term, the cabinet is indeed looking for a slight reduction in the cost increase along two tracks. That is what we are talking about; that is what we are talking about. I think that's a sensible route too. Secondly, we are looking at how to create more freedom of choice in care for the elderly by making more distinction between living and care. That's gonna take a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u226	I would like to ask the Prime Minister to clarify this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u227	No, that's all still to be worked out. Mrs. Agema knows that. But there are no cuts. I can really assure her that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u228	It's unbelievable. The Prime Minister has just declared a hard lockdown and comes up with this lame story. Flexible scaling is exactly the same as what has been done so far. There's flexible scaling, but the surgeries are going down accordingly. There are people who will not get surgery or treatment again in a flexible scale. At some point, there are corona patients in operating rooms. That's what flexible scaling is. And in the end, the Prime Minister will shut the country down again. Flexible scaling up, what he does in the coalition agreement and what he wants to keep doing, he just says he wants to keep doing it, so it doesn't work. Structurally more intensive care beds should be provided, at least the European average. I hear him here again saying he's not gonna do that. Then there's the volume growth restriction. Hospitals are at 0% next year. I hear the Prime Minister here saying that he will continue to do so. He continues to say that there is a need for broad agreement. Then he's gonna take out another 1.5 billion by means of new basic agreements. He's gonna talk about catching up. No, the Prime Minister must now tell us what happens to the cost of catching up, because that is no longer possible. He can't keep announcing lockdown on lockdown. He can't lock the country every time the wave threatens to cross the dike. Why doesn't the Prime Minister see that he has to invest in care, invest in structurally more intensive care beds, invest structuralally in hospitals and ensure that the corona account doesn't end up on the payer's bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u229	In the coming years, we will invest many billions in healthcare. The coalition agreement even makes a lot of extra money for the care. I say we're making 300 million euros for pandemic preparedness. That is precisely what is intended to be able to scale up in the event of serious health crises in such a way that, of course, it is not at the expense of the rest of the care, because we have had to do so over the last two years, over the last 21 months. Because of the pressure on the ICUs, we had to scale down other care. This is happening throughout Europe, and it is not desirable. That's why we're investing 300 million in the coming years to prevent that. That's why so much extra money goes to health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u230	One more question about scaling up the ic-care. When can you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u231	So 300 million will be allocated over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u232	When can you be more specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u233	That will have to be worked out by the new cabinet. That's all for the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u234	As far as he is concerned, the Prime Minister has just indicated the elements of a long-term strategy. The CDA just mentioned seven points. One essential point I miss in the Prime Minister's speech is the word 'technology'. More than 50 years ago, we landed on the moon with less technology than there is in your iPhone right now. So I am always very optimistic about the technological possibilities. But I totally miss that in the argument. I hope we're gonna look into that. So I'd like to get a confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u235	Absolutely. I also think that we simply need technological innovations, in addition to cost savings, because you are far from getting all the vacancies filled with just people. Part of that will have to be done with new technology. I'm talking about those three tracks. Firstly, keep an eye on the virus, including occasional anti-contact measures. That's not to be ruled out, I'm afraid, if something like this happens to Omikron. Secondly, better weaponize us against the virus. That also has to do with vaccinations. And finally, across the whole spectrum, we can scale up care capacity where it is needed. Especially in that third track, technology will play a crucial role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u236	The Prime Minister is now restricting technology to care. I would be extremely sorry to hear that. I'm talking about the total of keeping society open. I'm not a tech...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u237	Sorry, that was a misunderstanding. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u238	Yeah? I think we should take a broad look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u239	That was a misunderstanding. I thought it was special about releasing innovation in healthcare. Well, that was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u240	Mrs Den Haan, then Mr Hijink and then Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u241	I hear the Prime Minister talking about the strategic plan coming to the Chamber in January. Now I also see in the letter that the troika has been asked to consider in the short term the pros and cons of a vaccination-booster incentive. vaccination-booster obligation. Is that balance in that plan that comes to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u242	That's not foreseen. That's official advice from the three troika ministries. They should advise us, too. So I take full responsibility for that. I dare them to go through with it, too. But in the end, of course, it has to be decided politically. At present, there is no intention to impose vaccination. You can never rule out anything 100% for the future, but there is absolutely no such intention at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u243	No, I hear that. But it does say that it has been asked to consider the advantages and disadvantages. Are they also shared with the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u244	No, we have no intention of doing that at the moment. That is therefore an opinion of the officials of the troika ministries. Once again, they should continue to do so, especially with advice of this kind. That's crucial to our work. We'll all bring them out, too. We also take full responsibility for them doing so. But we must then, of course, consider politically what we are going to do with these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u245	I hear the Prime Minister now say four, maybe five times: the new cabinet is not going to cut back on care. After ten years of Rutte I know one thing for sure: if he claims something up to four times with a steel face, if he has to emphasize it so often, then you can assume that it is not true. And it's not true. If you look at the sums, at the tables provided by the coalition itself, you can see just what the impact of the coalition agreement on spending is. Yeah, spending's up. They're going up anyway. But the coalition agreement reduces that spending. And that's exactly what you see in the state. It sets out exactly what is or is going to happen on a subject-by-issue basis. You'll see pluses everywhere. That is the case with infrastructure. Justice is worth 1.4 billion. Defense's gonna add about 3 billion. There's one really big, fat min in the table, and that's in the care department. I think the Prime Minister should tell the honest story. He should not say up to four times that the new coalition is not going to cut back on care if in this state it is simply a very thick minus of 4.5 billion. That's what I wanted to say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u246	Mr President, that was also his group leader's main line of attack in the debate last week on the coalition agreement. In fact, I would refer him to all the newspapers in the Netherlands that have written that that argument was wrong. Perhaps that is the best answer for the sake of shortness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u247	All the newspapers, like the SP, have seen very well that healthcare spending will increase. That's no surprise, either. We're getting older, wages are rising and prices are rising. It is therefore crystal clear and logical that expenditure on care will increase. What is the effect of the coalition agreement? This is the structural withdrawal of 4.5 billion in the sum, a very large part of which will be realized within a few years, already before 2030. That's what the coalition agreement means to care. So if the Prime Minister says here up to four or five times that the new coalition is not cutting back on care, then he's just not telling the truth. He's just not telling the truth. Otherwise there would have been a plus, and not a very big minus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u248	In the coming years many, many, many billions more will go to healthcare. What the cabinet is doing is slowing down that huge increase in spending. We do that because if we let that happen unbridled, that if a cuckoo boy would push other expenses out of the nest. And these are expenditures that Mr Hijink also considers important, such as expenditure on education and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u249	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u250	There have been some questions here by me, but actually by most of the parties here, about the long term. What are we going to do in the coming time to make sure that we are really ready to deal with the virus in the long term? Then I hear the outgoing Prime Minister say three things. He mentions the question: what are we going to do to control the virus? He talks about the flare, and then 2G, 3G and the basic measures are mentioned. And he's talking about the question: what are we going to do to stop the virus? But then I would like to ask him the following. If so many questions are asked, including from the Chamber, how can this be the answer to them? Does he not agree with me that the long-term strategy and the perspective really need to be more than what is being said here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u251	Sure. That's what I've been sketching out. It will come in January, as I have discussed with the Chamber before. I have just outlined what three tracks we are shaping this longer-term strategy. This isn't the strategy. These are the tracks, the questions we want to answer in the longer-term strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u252	That is precisely the problem. If you outline these three tracks and we can rightly comment on the effectiveness of some of them, for example in the case of corona tickets, then more needs to be done. I would like to ask the outgoing Prime Minister: has he ever written a strategic policy plan for a company that has passed three tracks? That should contain much more. In any case, I have already indicated in my speech that the democratic decision-making process should also be different, and I have asked the Cabinet to develop ideas for this and to present us with a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u253	Yes, I have been able to write a number of times in companies and also in political strategic plans. I always think it wise to do that in three, because three points are the best coat rack to eventually shape your whole plan. I have outlined these three points. Those points are not the strategy. The strategy will come in January. I've just outlined to you what tracks we're doing. Below these are five lines of action. This can be explained later by the VWS Minister. He has already done so in the previous debate. This includes, for example, communication and all matters relating to the involvement of the Chamber, politics and society. That's all taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u254	About mapping those vaccination and booster incentives and obligations. It is said in the media that there are ideas for a prick duty. That gives people a certain concern, of: hey, what's going to happen? Now the Prime Minister says: they are ministries and they think about it. To be honest, I find that a little unclear. It's also in the letter we get. The troika, so these three ministries, are also acting under the responsibility of ministers, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u255	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u256	What does that mean? What's the status of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u257	This means that, within the framework of the new administrative culture, we share everything with the Chamber, including, for example, parts that go around in the Catshuis and things that we have to deal with in the departments. These are also issues in which we have not yet reached a decision. Since Louis Asscher said, I think even last year, that he actually wanted to see the Catshuispieces, we share everything in those letters. I think that is sensible, but it also means that you sometimes see uncomfortable pieces that have not yet been politically decided on. Those pieces are there and we take full responsibility for that. Once again, I call on all the officials involved to continue to do this and continue to pursue our ideas, ideas and suggestions for what to do. Even if there has not yet been a political decision, you will see these documents. That's how we've been doing it for a while. And if that makes you uncomfortable, I can't help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u258	I don't find it uncomfortable when we get information, but I find it uncomfortable if it's not clear what's being done with it. It's mentioned in the letter. This is what they say. Then you look at the measures and it does not come back. I think it should be clear what the status is. Am I to understand that the Prime Minister says: it was suggestions, but we have not followed them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u259	Not yet. We're gonna take a look at it. At the moment, there are no plans for a vaccination obligation. I don't expect that one either. But I cannot rule it out either, because in this crisis, we have often categorically ruled out things that could not be ruled out afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u260	I hear the Prime Minister say that the amount of ic-beds we have is according to plan and that he doesn't think it's necessary or even a good idea to scale up, because we'll be sitting with empty beds. I think it is important to bear in mind that that is an ideological choice. When we steer on as little empty beds as possible in an optimal situation, it automatically means that we will always have deficits in suboptimal situations. This is what we see more during the corona pandemic in this case, but in the years before, of course, we also had recording stops in regions very often when a flu wave coincided with a birth wave or with other nasty conditions that caused us to have more recordings. Sending on little bed occupancy will therefore automatically lead to shortages. I would like to hear a reflection from the Prime Minister on that, because I think that is quite an ideological choice to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u261	We don't, thank God. I am glad that you are making this point, because then I was unclear. No, my thesis is that you need to be able to scale up quickly on top of the capacity you need in normal circumstances, without having to scale down to other care. So if we are working on a pandemic preparedness plan, including in the government agreement, it aims to enable you to quickly adjust capacity across the full range, i.e. for nursing homes, home care and general practitioners and also for ic-capacity, in such a way that it is not at the expense of other care. That's what we're pulling $300 million for. Otherwise, it wouldn't cost extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u262	3 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u263	300 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u264	300 million. In that case, I would like to hear a little more explanation. When you look at how solid it had to be scaled up now, you look at one and a half times as much capacity. It seems to me that it is rather difficult to have an ic reserve alone for half the number of nurses and doctors who are normally working there. Then where are you gonna get it? Do they come from the ordinary wards? If so, how can you ensure that there are no shortages?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u265	That is why we had agreed, also in the context of the new governance culture, not to come up with a detailed government agreement. There is a coalition agreement and it contains 300 million pandemic preparedness. This means that the VWS minister who deals with hospitals will come to the Chamber with a piece to discuss it in detail. But the coalition wants to spend a lot of money on this, so that in the event of serious health crises, you are able to scale up quickly without having to pay for any other care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u266	I can now hear the Prime Minister use the words'serious health crises'. During this period we see that there is still a need to scale up, but we have seen more often that something like a flu can cause serious shortages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u267	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u268	So I don't think we're talking about a serious health situation, but we're talking about a normal seasonal flu that's bothering us. Is that also something that this reserve is going to be used for, or is this something that we want to anticipate in our standard baseline occupation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u269	Rightful correction. As Mrs Pouw says, that is what we mean. She's absolutely right about that. In addition, you have to map exactly how the hospitals are organized. We have professional high-quality medium care beds and limited ic capacity in the Netherlands. In Germany you have a very large ic-capacity, but again much less medium care. So it varies from one system to another. But the bottom line is that we don't really have too many ic-beds in the Netherlands, quite the contrary. So if there's nothing going on, then we've got a little too much, but we have to, but really not if there's a problem. That plan is meant to be able to scale up quickly without compromising other care and without having people standing around a bed that does not have the patient on it under normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u270	I think Mr Rutte's last words are quite contrary to what Mr Kuipers said at the technical briefing today, that before Corona arrived, the total capacity of ic-beds in a flu wave was actually not sufficient. Corona wasn't even there by then. I think the amount of ic-beds we have in the past was far too little. With the models of the WRR that we now have, the care capacity needs to rise significantly. Not a little up, but a lot up, so we have more bacon on the bones on the ic-capacity. I would like the Prime Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u271	I agree. Mrs Pouw-Verweij was right to say that a very heavy flu wave is putting too much pressure on ic capacity. That is the same point made by Mrs Güntoğan. That is what we need to do with each other, and that is what we are making substantial money for in the coalition agreement. I am not, of course, the group chairman of my party, because that coalition agreement must be denounced here in the Chamber by implication of not adopting a motion of censure when the new cabinet is presented. I'm just gonna assume that's gonna be okay, and then I want to shape that along that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u272	I'll take a look at Mrs. Den Haan, who was a little earlier, and then Mrs. Bikker. Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u273	I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to include the organization around the acute axis in that plan. It's not just about beds, it's about more staff. And the most important thing is to keep the back door closed, because there is now a huge outflow of ic nurses because that work is quite hopeless. Changing the organisation of those acute axis, e.g. with pacu beds, post anaesthesia care unit beds, allows you to use much more flexible staff. That's between the medium care and the ic-beds. They are already in the Netherlands at the moment, but there is no payment title for it yet. A number of hospitals like Mr. Kuipers' hospital take that with them in the crowd, but other hospitals can't. I would very much like that to be looked at. That means more influx. That means less outflow. That means a variety of jobs. That means in the short term all the scaling up to 350 to 450 extra beds. That plan lies with the Dutch Association for Anesthesiology. I'd really appreciate it if he got involved in this plan, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u274	We are very much in the next cabinet now, but it makes sense to at least look at what Mrs Den Haan says. I'm not exactly an expert. We're going into the depths now at a level where I don't know everything. In any case, I do not know everything, but Mrs Den Haan clearly masters me on this point. So let me at least say that we will, of course, be involved in this if it is further developed. That will have to be the new minister, whoever that is. Today's Minister, what he's going to do next, we all see that, as he sits here, we are, of course, working on what we need to do in the shorter term in order to shape that strategy that comes out in January. This is, of course, to some extent included. That is the question: what should you do, especially for this virus, in terms of adjusting and/or scaling up care capacity across the full width? That's not just about ic's, is it? I mentioned the nursing home care, home care and general practitioners. Mrs Den Haan goes much deeper inside the hospital: what else could specialise there? That makes sense, but that's also because of a lack of knowledge on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u275	I am already very pleased with the commitment, but I would also like this to be done in the short term. In the short term a lot of air can be given here as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u276	Hugo de Jonge goes into that because he probably knows what he was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u277	I look forward to the cabinet's plans, especially for the long term, also thinking in scenarios. Honestly, last week I was delighted with the offer made by the Association of Dutch Municipalities to the cabinet. They said: please consider now some no-regret measures that we can take that almost everyone agrees on; do so first. I would ask the cabinet to give a commitment to discuss these short-term plans precisely, because it is so important that we also give this a follow-up at regional and local level, so that society itself can take that responsibility. That must appeal to a liberal, and that is also very appealing to me from a Christian social point of view. Instead of dictating everything as a government, we ask the question: how do we put society to work with urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u278	The VNG is involved in the whole review of the approach. I must say that I have seen all the VNG plans for the last 20 years, and that is not entirely true, by the way, and I have missed them. So let us take a look at the deadline for Hugo de Jonge to deal with that specific VNG proposal. Then we'll see if we can get that involved in the shorter term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u279	You will continue your speech. Oh, Mrs. Chicken. Then we go to the young and the vulnerable. Mrs. Kuik, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u280	Excuse me, I would have raised my hand. I should've gotten up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u281	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u282	We have a short term. That's omikron now. I had also asked very clearly whether there are plans and scenarios now in case it is not easy? That's step one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u283	January, so to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u284	No. If Omikron isn't easy, we have a first weighing on January 3. Then we probably already have a better indication: do we have to persevere, is it not bad or is it disappointing? But if it's not easy, so if it's disappointing, is there a scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u285	Here's what we agreed on. What if it's not easy? Then that would have an effect on the care anyway. Hugo de Jonge will go into that in a moment. We have a whole plan on how we try to provide care as best we can anyway. That will not be on the top quality that we now deliver in hospitals if there is a lot of recourse to the ic. But since we've gone into lockdown so early, we hope to avoid that. I think that Mrs Kuik refers in particular to the question of what further action we are going to take. That's what an agreement was made with the OMT. As soon as they see one of the following two things on the basis of a modeling, they come forward. The first case is that it's not that bad. We hope so. Then they come together, Christmas or no Christmas, day or night, to advise us immediately, so that we can quickly decide on a scale-down of measures. I do not have that hope now, because the latest reports from abroad are not so positive. But let's keep hope. It may also be that they will see in the next few days or weeks that it is much worse. Then, of course, they will advise us immediately. Then we will meet immediately and see what we can do. Anyway, of course, we have that moment.I'll be back on the schedule in a moment by January 14, when we return to the Netherlands. Already on 2 or 3 January we will see if the schools can open again as of 10 January. Is that the question Mrs. Chicken had?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u286	An enlightening question on this. I also specifically asked what measures could be envisaged and whether they could still be envisaged. I know it's all incredibly difficult and you can't control leaks yourself. There was surprise that we suddenly went into the hard lockdown. A lot of people in the outside world wouldn't have seen that coming anyway. You've got that 24 hours of: okay, and now? 'Cause if it's gonna have to go any harder, you gotta make it even smaller. Then you must immediately state: this is what we are going to do for these reasons and we communicate directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u287	Yes. I'm gonna try. But it's incredibly difficult. The OMT is a big club. I don't know if things are leaking out there. It could be, but I don't have any proof of that; it's gonna be okay. Afterwards, there will also be meetings with many others in the administrative Netherlands, as in the Security Council. What you saw here was that late on Friday and early on Saturday it was clear that something very solid would arrive. Actually, Mrs. Chicken is asking if you can prevent that. That has so far been moderately successful. Fortunately, we have had a very short decision-making cycle here so that the press conference followed within 24 hours of the OMT opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u288	And my second part of the question is whether anything has already been decided on other measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u289	No, it hasn't been decided yet. But that can also happen very quickly, because of course we have everything on the shelf and we know roughly what things are doing, in cooperation with other measures. But I sincerely hope that we do not have to do any more than we do now. Please, let's not get the impression that we need to do more. I agree, you can't rule it out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u290	Then the longer term. The Prime Minister says that in January you will be given a package on the basic measures, the boosters, the ic capacity, and then it will be up to the new management team, whoever is in it, to shape the further long-term strategy. That's where I care. It is my assumption that Corona will remain with us in the coming years, in whatever form. If it is then to be the new management team on this issue, it will soon be February or March before we have a long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u291	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u292	Let me finish briefly, because I also want a perspective on how we are dealing with people who may have to do their work in a different way, because it is going to be more seasonal. How do we deal with the schools, and I regret that there is still no decent ventilation system in all classes? How do we deal with people who have fallen into poverty, despite all the good support packages? That's question one. Then I'm gonna ask one last question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u293	You almost dare me to mention it very briefly, but I won't. Last time Hugo de Jonge outlined the five tracks through which we reflect on five themes, which we want to shape this long-term strategy. He will be able to say a little more about this shortly. There are also these elements. For example, the element of normalising the decision-making process that Mrs Westerveld just mentioned and the element of involving the Chamber. But also the whole issue of communication, for which I have already slapped myself twice in public. The question could also be: what else are you going to do? That's what's in it. And also the whole care capacity and all the measures and instruments that go with it, say the whole toolbox. And that also includes the much more fundamental question of whether you should perhaps organise certain things in another season. That could all be part of it. We really haven't worked that out yet. We do this very widely, not only as a cabinet, but also with a lot of social parties. We want to try to get that done by the end of January. There's this kind of thing in there. It is not a question of dealing with the consequences of the crisis so far, for example for companies or for people in serious financial difficulties. That's a good point. We're gonna have to keep monitoring that separately. And for that, of course, we also have the support packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u294	My final question: does the Prime Minister understand that I am somewhat concerned about the speed and speed with which the crisis is moving towards a more structural long-term approach, because we do not know how the months are going to run. If every time the acute crisis prevents us from finding real peace and space to actually pursue the long-term strategy and to release enough people for it, I was talking about a separate corona minister, but the cabinet will not be in favour of it, then we will not get out of it. I am so afraid that we will continue to do what we did and not fundamentally change our approach, but remain in a state of crisis. Does the Prime Minister understand that and how can he take care of me, but also that of society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u295	First a profit warning: omikron was also used to a long-term strategy. That would have led to a lockdown, no matter what long-term strategy you have. With an R of 3, that's inevitable. Again, you can also see in Germany and England that the RIVMs are advising exactly the same as we are doing here. That's a given, no matter how many Ice Beds you've got or how much you've bossed. Still, you're gonna need this. I totally agree with Mrs. Chicken. Minister De Jonge will soon say something about the timing. We have deported all this and discussed it in the Cabinet. Everyone has agreed to this. Those things are now in motion. We are working very hard on this in the coming weeks, not only by us, but also with a lot of social parties and organisations. The goal is to be a long way by the end of January. Mrs. Kuik actually says: you won't have time for a short letter and that's why you keep sending me long letters. Writing that strategy is actually a short letter. It'll take time. You need to think about that. It's easier to write a long letter than a short letter. We must also write that short letter. That short letter must include exactly what ultimately is the long-term impact on society for peace, purity and regularity in decision-making, in dealing with the virus. How do you handle it when this is with us for a while? What does that mean for all possible social processes? That's gotta get a place in there. That is not finished, because then we are going to discuss it here and then everyone in society will be delirious and groping. That's the way it's supposed to be. However, this must lead to a common understanding of the long-term approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u296	Mrs. Kuik, your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u297	Yeah, I know. The system of the ten questions and the four-minute debates must be considered ourselves, but that aside. I'm going to keep the cabinet, how good or bad that goes, at the end of January. Then hopefully we will have a fresh team of directors again and then everyone in part or part should not be worked in. But it is absolutely necessary, because that society cannot wait for a structural approach. Entrepreneurs can't wait for that. Young people and young people, who you are about to deal with, cannot wait for that. To keep seeing air and perspective, it is essential. As difficult as it gets with the new team, I'm going to be this Prime Minister, who will at least be a constant factor to the delight of many and to the sorrow of some... No, that's a faint remark. That's not what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u298	In that affair, I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u299	Yeah, that's why I said it. But all the crazy on a stick: I mean it very seriously. We've asked for evaluations before. We have asked earlier to come up with long-term perspectives. There are sub- councils in which such advice is given. So far, not much has been done with it. I am therefore critical in this respect. I find the self-learning ability limited, also around the boosters. But I'm really going to hold the cabinet to this, because it's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u300	Yeah, I get that. And that makes sense, too. I'm gonna have to live with that. We say end of January. We're gonna do everything we can to make sure there's no hard guarantees to be ready. I understand we'll meet if we don't make it. Then we're gonna do more than that, of course. I don't entirely agree that we've been sailing in the dark for the last few years. It really isn't. But I don't think we need to talk about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u301	I am very happy with these answers, just like Mrs Kuik. I think it's more reflection and more sense to look at the long term, while I used to hear reactions to such questions that were disapproving. Thank you for that to the Prime Minister. I keep worrying about the here and now, except for the long term. We have a reservoir of delayed care. I've often filed motions to come up with a plan for that deferred care. May I hope they're working on that, too? There are people who need urgent care and who haven't been given it because they've been scaled down. I have a lot of concerns about these people, because they really want surgery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u302	This is not foreseen in the long-term strategy. That really has to be done before the shorter term. Perhaps Minister De Jonge will be able to say something about that later. The most important thing now is that we manage to reduce the hospital occupancy and prevent it from getting flooded with the new variant. Perhaps I could ask the Secretary of State of the United States, while he's here, to go into that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u303	I have one more thing. The minister said we'd ended up in this black flood anyway thanks to Omikron. I'll share that. What I don't share is this. Delta started at the beginning of September, shortly after relaxing. At that time, almost all measures were abandoned. At the beginning of October, the figures started to increase. We didn't need so much delayed care and as many infections as we would have been more vigilant at the time. That stings me. That has caused so many people to have delayed care. I'm touched by that. I would therefore like to say that the Netherlands is simply in the same trouble as other countries, but because of the delayed care, the starting position of the Netherlands is worse than that of many other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u304	I know Mrs Gündoğan is looking at that. In itself, I agree with her. I also find it terrible that so much concern has been postponed. I can only say that, of course, every time we went through the signal values, for example the 25 ic recordings and 100 hospitalisations, we took immediate action. You must note that the package of 12 November, where we followed the advisers, had an effect in the end, but not the real blow. Unfortunately, that can happen. The second package was this. Now you can see that the R is at 0.88. Today, for the first time, the number of infections is below 10,000. I think it's a mixed image. I agree with Mrs Gündoğan that it is just terrible that so much concern has been postponed. That's heartbreaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u305	I just heard the Prime Minister say: regardless of the strategy, we would have ended up in that lockdown anyway, because of a new variant. In other words, regardless of the money and the resources you throw at it, regardless of the number of ICU beds you scale up, regardless of the antivirals that may be available and regardless of the ventilation you could do a lot more, we would never be able to prevent a lockdown. That's technically impossible, isn't it? You need to be able to create a situation where if you have unlimited money and resources and have enough time, of course, we haven't taken that time; we've been working for two years now to prevent a lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u306	The point with this omikron variant is that there are potentially so many infections, where there is great concern about the degree of illness and consequently also about the degree of stress on hospital capacity, that in the case of the Netherlands you are talking about potentially thousands of ic-beds. You could then go to an ic-capacity of 2,000 or 2,500 in the Netherlands, but then it goes far beyond it if you didn't take action. That is also why countries such as England and Germany have much greater ic capacity and have already started boosters now also have exactly the same advice from their RIVMs/OMTs as we do, namely to introduce the maximum contact restrictions immediately. Those advices really are now both in England and here on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u307	I understand that other countries are not doing very well either. The fact that we're dangling at the bottom of the list is even worse. I ask my question again. The difference between what we have all paid for support measures and the damage we have done in society is enormous. If you're throwing unlimited money and resources at it, then there must be a combination of factors with ventilation, antivirals and an ic-capacity of 6,000 or I know a lot about it, maybe it's 3,000 ic-beds, maybe it's 5,000 ic-beds, where we can say, no, we don't have to lock down anymore, because we have enough buffer? Isn't that obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u308	Then there will be a medical-ethical moment, where you have to make a decision. Fathernotte also outlined this in his term, in response to a few interruptions. Where do you put the line? What if you said, "We have 10,000 Ice Beds." Then we're gonna accept that 10,000 people... Okay, so many aren't predicted here, but here was a prediction of maybe 4,000 ic-recordings. Are you saying we accept that 4,000 people are lying on an ic-bed, with all those tubes and pipes in them, with all these medications and the big risk of them dying? There's a limit to that, isn't there? Wouldn't that also require a medical-ethical consideration? So I think that's a little nonsensical. I think it is true that, on balance, we have less ic capacity than many other countries. However, I say again that you have to look very closely at how that relates to the other types of hospital beds. I think this is the final conclusion. We started boosters later. That too is true. But I don't think you can say, if you'd had more ic-beds and started boostering earlier, you wouldn't have had a lockdown. I don't think you can say that, because then the same advice would not be on the table in Germany and England.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u309	I really think it's a disgusting mischief. Isn't it true that with ic-capacity, we save people? We then prevent students from being traumatized and people with cancer and heart problems from being scaled down, undiagnosed and untreated. Isn't it true that because of that higher ic capacity, we're preventing people from dying? It's not a medical-ethical matter that we leave them there to die. No, we save them and we prevent all that other concern from being scaled down and our society from just going on again. That's the heart of the matter, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u310	I feel more at home with what Mrs Gündoğan and Mr Paternotte said. Mrs Gündoğan said: you do not send on hospital beds; they are signal values if you go through a certain number of recordings, but of course you send on the number of infections. I agree with her. And I agree with Paternotte that of course it's not that it's good news if someone can get on an ic-bed. The good news is if he doesn't get there. How can you prevent that? You do this by vaccinating, boostering and, unfortunately, if there is a variant with a reproduction factor as high as that of the omicron variant, also by necessarily deciding on extensive contact restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u311	Finally, Mr President. Now I understand exactly the problem. Last time, another report was made, showing that 620,000 years of life were destroyed by a lockdown. So you could avoid that. Of course, 100,000 years of life were also won, but the net result was 520,000 years negative. So it is true that greater ic-capacity helps on all sides. As far as I am concerned, this is a medical-ethical issue which is in favour of more ic-beds. I find it amazing. So we're not going to scale up the ic capacity, because otherwise it would lead to the medical-ethical issue, because there would be more people on the ic to be helped there? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u312	No, but of course that's not what it's like. I said you definitely need to scale up the ic capacity, but we need to be able to scale it up flexibly if there is a health care problem, which threatens to overload the ic. Mr Van Haga's theorem was that you would never have to lock down again if you had unlimited resources and an unlimited number of ic-beds. At that time, I said that there was still a balance to be made. If so many people are extremely ill on an ic-bed because there is no lockdown and there are no contact restrictions, then society will have to have that discussion at some point. It is not that black and white, as Mr Van Haga sketches.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u313	But the nice thing is that you have a choice if you can scale up to 10,000 Ic beds. Then you can still go into lockdown, but now we don't have that choice. We spent two years on our buttocks and did nothing, even more so, the number of ic-beds has been scaled down, and now we have a big problem. If we'd had more Ice Beds, we'd have had that choice. That's just the simple fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u314	Yes, may I refer to the previous answer? I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u315	I think the next theme is "young people."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u316	Young people and then other questions. Among the young people was the question of whether we have a sufficient view of vulnerable young people. Research by the CBS shows that almost half of Dutch young people think that the corona crisis has adversely affected their lives in general. The same applies to vulnerable young people. A lot of research has been done on that. Of course the results are diverse, but unfortunately it shows that mainly terms are referred to as "lonely" and "ununderstood" et cetera. There are also young people who say it is nice to have less social pressure, but mostly it is called loneliness. A study by Unicef entitled Happiness under pressure shows the enormous impact it has on the well-being of young people. I'm talking about young people now, because that's what the question was about. Of course, it also applies to entrepreneurs or older people, but the questions were about young people. Through the Youth Panel Mental Health we are working on policy making for mental health. The guide also follows how the voice of young people with disabilities can be taken into account in policy-making. That's part of it. In January, VWS organises a meeting with young people and promoters of projects from the previous support package to discuss how to strengthen the mental well-being of young people. There is a support package for young people. That dates from February and continues until the end of the year. This explicitly focuses on vulnerable young people, such as those with chronic disabilities, young people in youth aid and those from the security domain, for example from disadvantaged areas. We are currently working with young people and with the VNG on this. That's what we're going to do in the future. Additional support will then be provided for the most vulnerable young people. We hope to be able to inform the Chamber at the end of January about the outcome and the start-up. Last weekend, the cabinet said something about that too. We have said that we are going to recreate a support package. Once again, this is, of course, based on the previous package and the activities that have been carried out. This focuses on mental health, but also on the lifestyle of young people. That happens, among other things, with the VNG. This Christmas and early next year are still covered by the existing support package. Those activities are continuing. For example, games are organized for young people during the Christmas holidays in the district, for example from the Winter & Summer Games. Then there is the very penetrating question about a finger on the wrist, now that suicide prevention is important. That question is, of course, very well understood. It is very important that people with suicidal complaints can be helped. Since March 2020, the number of suicides has been monitored precisely by a committee of parties under the coordination of 113 Suicide Prevention. That's the Commission on Current Dutch Suicide Registration. Until November 2021, this committee does not signal an increase in the number of suicides in the Netherlands. We have all been able to take note of the coalition agreement, which includes means of suicide prevention and prevention in broad terms. The next cabinet is going to work on this, because it is essential that we do everything we can to support young people, but also others who are at risk of falling prey to such thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u317	I have a bit of a problem with the warm words of our outgoing Prime Minister about youth and loneliness. This has to do with the fact that the next coalition agreement substantially cuts youth care. That is why I would like to ask him what he is going to do to ensure that young people who are now vulnerable are really helped. What's he gonna do on top of the plans in the upcoming coalition agreement? What is in it is not good for this vulnerable group. In fact, it makes me desperate every now and then when I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u318	With all due respect, we had a whole discussion about this last week. As chairman of the political group, I defended the coalition agreement. I also disagree with that analysis. I thought today was not about scoring another political point, but about what the youth support package was about. I have outlined to you that we have an ongoing support package. That goes on until the beginning of next year. We are talking to the VNG about what the new support package should look like. That is essential. The question that is now being asked is about wider youth care. We discussed this extensively last week. At that time I outlined that we will spend a great deal of extra money on youth care in the coming years, that we will have to succeed in reducing the waiting lists for young people who have serious problems and that we will have to avoid paying attention to the lighter issues and too little to the heavier issues. We had that discussion for hours last week. I've been here two and a half hours. I thought today was about corona and young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u319	I wasn't the one who brought up the coalition agreement and the plans to come. That was the outgoing Prime Minister. He was just starting to talk about what's going to be done in the coming period, about investing, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u320	Yeah, to questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u321	I note that the coalition agreement and its plans are being cut. That's not a question of "less." There has been a dispute between the municipalities and the Empire. At that time, a committee said that more than one billion should be invested in structural terms, but more must be done than just investing, because plans must also be made. This coalition says in the new coalition agreement: that's fine, but we're going to get half a billion in the coming years. That is what I see here. That is why I do not think the warm words about loneliness and youth are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u322	I'll take note of that. I didn't bring up the coalition agreement. Questions were asked about that. I have outlined the three tracks along which the cabinet works, also in the context of this serious crisis around corona, and how to scale up where necessary. Then there were questions about the coming time. I answered those questions. I'm trying to do it as best I can. We discussed child care in detail last week. I think there's a lot of extra money going to juvenile care. I just said that. Here too, we will have to talk to each other in the main and basic sense about exactly what you want with youth care. At the moment I see that, no matter how much money goes into it, a lot of attention is paid in the youth care sector to young people with problems that are still reasonably clear in themselves, which means that the young people who have serious problems are currently on far too long waiting lists. That is the fundamental debate we must have. That's not just with extra money to solve. There's a lot of extra money going on, but we're gonna have to have a more fundamental conversation with each other. That is really necessary. My answer was now about young people in relation to corona and the support package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u323	A point of order. It's said there's a lot of extra money going to juvenile care. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u324	That was not a point of order, but a point of substance. Anyway, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u325	Then I'll come to the other questions. A question has been asked about the essential and non-essential shops behind customs at Schiphol. There, the shops on the airside of the Dutch airport are excluded, in order to maintain as much as possible a similar situation with the airports in other countries, and also to keep the shops open to practical matters for passengers who are already on the airside because of their flight. That is the reason, also in earlier packages. At the same time, I have heard the feeling in the Chamber very well. I think I have correctly estimated that it is a bit complicated if this continues. That is why I think we should agree to close the non-essential shops on the airside. This also means that people are less mixed up and there is also less staff at the airport. I think all of this could help, so my tendency would be to take over that suggestion from the Chamber. It has to be in an emergency. We will settle this as soon as possible and incorporate it into the Temporary Arrangement measures covid-19. I think that reflects the feeling of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u326	I'm sure it's Mrs Teunissen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u327	Yeah, 'cause I already saw it rushing to the microphone. He thought, of course, that Rutte's gonna keep it all shut. No, he's just willing to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u328	I was very open here listening to Mr Rutte. I was confident, and I'm very happy. I would just like to point out that I am extremely pleased that Mr Rutte is in any case going along with the wishes of the Chamber. I'll look forward to that arrangement soon. I was wondering when we would be able to see this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u329	Yes, that must be done very quickly, because this must then be incorporated into the Temporary Arrangement measures covid-19. So that's gonna be an emergency. But that's as far as I know. That's what all the lawyers are about. Maybe I can say this in second term. "This week," I now hear "this week," suddenly I change my mind. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the restraining order. A maximum of two people. This contributes to limiting the contact moments outdoors. The current situation calls for drastic action. Therefore, a package of measures with as few exceptions as possible has been chosen. However, in addition to the exception for children up to 12 years of age and persons residing at the same address, there are a few exceptions for young people up to 17 years of age. Organised youth activities for persons up to 17 years of age are allowed outside until 5 p.m. with a maximum of 50 persons. There the maximum of two persons does not therefore apply. Also, the group formation ban does not apply to young people up to 17 years old who work out at outdoor sports locations until 5 p.m. That is also a small increase in the sports regime compared to the evening lockdown package. This also makes more possible for young people outside until 5 p.m. And as you know, on Christmas Eve, first and second Christmas Days and on 31 December, there is a ban on group formation for more than four people. On other days there is a ban on group formation for more than two persons. The shops close at 8:00. Sorry about my glitch last Saturday night. Of course they close at 8 p.m. because it gives workers the opportunity to shop after office time. But if you leave the shops open any longer, it will cause more traffic. That is precisely what we must try to limit. Then Belgium and Germany and traffic across the border. This is what I want to say. I also call on the media to pay attention to this. They decide whether or not to do something with it, but it would be nice if it could go further than this room. I would like to say a few words about border traffic. It's so important to limit contacts. The same goes, of course, for cross-border contacts. The domestic advice is to stay home as much as possible. So that also applies in this case if you want to cross the border. So don't cross the border to Belgium or Germany or eat out. If you have to cross the border, for example for commuting, prepare yourself and stick to the local measures. If you go on vacation, you go to your vacation address and then you stick to all the rules. But don't go shopping in Cologne or Antwerp, or wherever you want to do it. That's really unwise. I really want to make that call here. I hope that will also be heard outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u330	I would like to take a look back at the opening hours of the shops. I understand that there must be room for people to go to shops after work, but I honestly do not understand why opening hours cannot be extended, especially around the holidays. I think there's only a small group of people who think: okay, after 8:00 I can't shop, so I'll go to the store less and then I don't do Christmas boards. I think everyone will still be shopping, only in a shorter time frame. That means you'll have more people in the store in a shorter time. If people can do their shopping later in the evening, you can spread it out. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u331	I grew up in the time that all the stores in the Netherlands were closed at 18.00 hours. I think it's fantastic that I went to Lidl or Albert Heijn last night and I won't tell you where I could go to shop to get something. But we did this the last time: 8:00. That'll give you a few hours after work and keep you from shopping. Our request is to go there alone, to pick up what you need with a mouth cap, to keep your distance and to go out again. If this takes longer, we believe that this will lead to more traffic. I really think we should hold on to 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u332	Then I would like a response from the Prime Minister to my comment on the weeks in which we are now, towards Christmas and old and new. In those weeks people do more shopping than in the weeks before because they do extra shopping. I expect there will be few people who stay home and do not do Christmas gods, because there is limited time. That seems to me to be extremely absurd at this time. I'd like a comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u333	But it also leads to more hustle and bustle for the shops. People might stay there. You don't know any of this. We have such a big problem that I think we really have plenty of room by 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u334	I have another question about the travel advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u335	That's what Minister De Jonge is about. Then I'll continue with disinformation and misinformation. That was a question from Mrs. Chicken. Unfortunately, disinformation and misinformation are becoming more and more common. That is why there is also a broad approach to disinformation about COVID-19 and vaccination. Depending on the form of the disinformation and misinformation, we deal with this in different ways. We disseminate knowledge about disinformation as much as possible ourselves. We collect as much extra knowledge as possible about disinformation from the network of experts and make it a hand-hand-hand-hand disinformation in corona time. It's being launched this week. We also talk to youth workers about disinformation and how you stay in conversation. Finally, we disseminate knowledge about the subjects that often come back as disinformation via various channels: Rijksoverheid.nl, social media and a website for people who doubt a vaccine, the so-called pebbles without appointment.nl. Of course, the general practitioners also play a major role in this. I've been talking about the disclosure of documents for a while. I'm not about the O.V.V. report. The OVV is truly independent. I can't help in that. The Chamber might ask the OVV itself, but I will not interfere with the OVV. If I do, then I imagine that later it's said: you've interfered. Then I agree that it is important for the Cabinet to ensure that all parties involved in the decision-making process are involved in a way that fits their responsibilities. For this reason, the cabinet always asks a number of external advisors for advice, in the up-to-date version of decisions. In addition to the OMT, this includes, on the basis of the Segers motion of May last year, the planning agencies and other advisers. All these opinions go to the Chamber. As a result, the division of roles remains clear. For the record: the OMT is independent in its advice, it itself decides what it advises and what it advises on. We can ask for advice, but in the end they decide for themselves. I have already answered Mr Van der Staaij's question about the next weighing moment. The lockdown runs until January 15th 05:00. Decision-making for the period thereafter is scheduled for 14 January. But, as I said to Mrs Kuik, if it is worse or less bad, then of course we will take decisions sooner and come straight back to you. In the case of education, the measures run until 10 January. A decision will be taken on 3 January after 10 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u336	I have just looked at what the Robert Koch Institute, the German RIVM, is actually advising. Indeed, that ab sofort is doing a lot to limit contacts. Nightclubs and nightclubs need to close up which are of course already 21 months closed here, on two weekends after. Shops may remain open, but with 2G and FFP2 mouth masks. 2G-plus will apply to cultural events, institutions and church services. In other words: Germany gets an advice that allows them to keep a lot more open than we do, and also with more tools in the toolkit. I wonder how the Prime Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u337	That is why I agreed with what Mr Paternotte said in response to a number of Members of Parliament on CTB and 2G. That is why there are proposals. It would be very attractive if we were to deal with these legislative proposals as soon as possible. But I agree with him that a lot of countries - he mentioned that whole list in his speech - have introduced it. I think that is also very justifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u338	But is it true that we actually have fewer options besides going into full lockdown, because we have fewer tools in the toolbox? As a result, can countries such as Belgium with a higher vaccination rate and Germany with more of these instruments opt for, for example, keeping the shops and cultural events open? Does that at least mean they have more options?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u339	I would like to make all the arguments pro CTB and 2G mine, but I think this is a little too rough because of course there are real differences. There are, as I said, differences in many areas, including, in the end, the assessment we are making of dissemination. In Germany, omikron is even less present than here. Anyway, people are very afraid of a rapid increase. And if you look at yesterday's advice from the scientific board of the British Government, which has not been taken over, you will see that it goes much further. There are, of course, differences. I had the Norwegian Prime Minister on the phone today. There the discussion takes place along similar lines as here. In Denmark, of course, far-reaching measures have been taken. That's where education has closed before. There are, of course, real differences. I don't know if we're gonna reason very much towards ourselves or if it's all because of 2G, but it would help if we had it in the toolbox. De Jonge will go into the mouth masks later. That is something, FFP2 and other mouth masks, which we really need to have good advice on. Then there is the motion from Amhaouch and Palland to the Euregio Council. Yeah, it's being executed. The Corona Declaration implements the Resolution of the EUREGIO Council calling for measures to be agreed with neighbouring countries. There's been contact this weekend, too. I've been in contact with Olaf Scholz and Alexander De Croo to inform them of the measures we were going to take. The Minister of VWS also had contact with his Belgian colleague Vandenbroucke and the Minister of Justice had contact with his German colleague from NRW, Minister Reul, and with his Belgian colleague Verlinden. There is therefore wide-ranging contact with neighbouring countries. Then I'll take a look at GroenLinks' questions about the Catshuis. I think that comes back to the broader weighting of how we can bring more structure into decision-making under the longer-term strategy. Finally sports during the lockdown. I also said in my speech on Saturday how important that is. Luckily, there's a lot that can be done. Sports providers and neighborhood sports coaches do hard best to organize activities for children within the rules. Up to 17 years there has just been a small increase compared to the evening lockdown. Of course it is possible for adults to work out outdoors with one other person. I thought you might even have an instructor with that. I'd have to double-check that, but at least I can do it with one other person. This can also be done at an outdoor sports venue between 5:00 in the morning and 5:00 in the afternoon, such as a tennis court. We are all going to communicate this again via the national government.nl and interested parties in the sports sector. That is very important and I really hope that everyone will use it as much as possible. Running, sports together, the two of us can do that. At the sports locations you can do this until 5:00 in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u340	I'm curious. This is about the sport now. We have also asked as CDA whether the Cabinet is willing to look at the separation essential/non-essential, in order to adapt it for the future. Because coffee shops and liquor stores are open, but bookshops and sports facilities are not, we do not find that at odds with our own responsibility for health. So I would very much like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u341	Yes. We are not going to do that now, but I understood that request very clearly. I think we're just involving that in the longer term. That's not gonna work right now, for Christmas. But indeed, that request is noted. I also think it is a real request to re-examine whether that is the most logical distribution. I also agree with those who say that the term 'non-essential' does not make any sense. Anyway, we mean, if you don't go there, you don't starve. But you can also starve by having too little culture and you can starve by reading too few books, but that is another form of starving. So, once. It is actually an unfortunate distinction and we also need to recalibrate the precise subdivision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u342	Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a short time and then we're gonna go to the U.S. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u343	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States... if the Minister wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u344	Yeah, excuse me. I said something to the Prime Minister. Mr President, thank you. I'd like to start with the questions about the booster. Then I would like to go on with the questions about care capacity, the long-term questions, the questions about corona tickets and testing, and then a single question that is perfectly organized in the block of varia. That's how I wanted to do the answer. Then, of course, I'll go straight to the answer. I don't give long introductions, of course not. I shall begin with Mrs De Vries' question and many others on the booster campaign. How can we speed it up any further? Right now, we've got about nine million shots to go. We've already put two million shots and another nine million to go. We really want to be done in the second half of January. That's an insane operation for the RIVM and for the G.D.D.'s. Luckily, there's a lot of help with that. In this acceleration of the booster campaign, it is very important that we do as many people as possible who are most vulnerable first. So we really want to have as many as possible 60-plussers done before the turn of the year. Fortunately, a large part of that has already happened. About 1.4 million people have already been there. 1.7 million people already have an appointment. Some of those appointments run until January. About 300,000 of these appointments run until January. Mrs Van den Berg's husband will be next, but some of the agreements are still scheduled for January. We are going to try to schedule these appointments as much as possible before the turn of the year. That's what we do with targeted texting actions. Where slots are released we try to bring forward some of the 60-plussers that were planned in January, to have done as much as possible before the turn of the year. In addition, about a million 60-plussers have not yet made an appointment. Of course, we are trying to reach them in order to encourage them to make an appointment. That's about a quarter of the total. That is really important, because of course we do not want to booster 80% of those who have had their first shots. We're actually just trying to make sure that 100% of the people who got their first shots got that booster shot, because without that booster, you're just under-protected. Now the behavioral studies show that 80% would eventually be willing to go for the booster shot. That's gotta go up. That also remains very important in communication. Doing as many 60-plussers as possible before the turn of the year also means that the free slots must be filled out as much as possible by 60-plussers. That is the reason why we didn't get to the place until we invited the age groups, but now we're moving on quickly. On 7 January we want the last 18-pluser invited, and in the second half of January we want to finish the booster campaign, at least with those who are 18-plus and had their last shot three months ago. Then, of course, the people who then fall into the same category. Then the pace. Can we go further up by taking those fifteen minutes off, Mrs De Vries asks? We've had a good look at that. At the GGD that doesn't really offer a gear, because the waiting areas there are just big enough. There's no bottleneck waiting room right now. So it doesn't go any faster if you take the 15 minutes off there. Of course, that's the case with the general practitioners. With the general practitioners it would really be much faster if you took the fifteen minutes off. But it does have a serious disadvantage to do that. We're looking into it, but it does have a serious downside to do that. Firstly, that 15 minutes is simply in the directives of the EEA and of the WHO. That means you're really taking a liability risk if you just deviate from that. But that's not the main reason. The main reason is that this anaphylactic shock is why we do these fifteen minutes and why it is really included in international standards is very rare, but nevertheless on such an incredibly large forest pricks can add up to serious numbers. If you don't have medical supervision, it can also lead to death. About 1 in 100,000 people get such anaphylactic reaction. So it could be 100 people in the 10 million stakes in the booster campaign. Well, then you'd really rather have it supervised than unsupervised. However, I am looking at whether you could fill in that 15 minutes in another way and whether that could possibly be medically justified. That is how the UK does it. I'll hesitate. I hesitate strongly, I must say. Nevertheless, we have asked for medical advice to see if we can fill it out in another way. So if we could use that, we would. Which brings me to the GPs. I know, of course, that a lot of general practitioners are dying to help. A lot of doctors do that, too. That's fantastic. I'm very happy with the help of the GPs. In any case, they carry out a number of tasks which are really for the general practitioners in particular. In doing so, they help the GGDs. It's actually the other way around: the GGD does it if the GPs can't do it. Some general practitioners just have an insanely busy practice and really don't get it arranged to do so. But it's fantastic when general practitioners help with the vaccination of non-mobile, home-living patients. So those are the people who can't go to the G.D.D. In addition, it is very necessary that general practitioners help at, for example, small-scale nursing homes that do not have their own medical service. Fortunately, that too is happening. A lot of general practitioners also want to help. Another suggestion that Mr Paternotte made earlier is to convince the 50-plussers in practice. General practitioners know these patients like no other. General practitioners are very capable of taking away doubts in a trust-building way. So we also need general practitioners very much for that. We also really ask general practitioners to make an additional effort in this area, because also for the omikron variant, the non-vaccines are the most vulnerable. That is still 11% and it is also among the 50-plussers. In addition, we know that a lot of GPs are retired sometimes and sometimes they are just active helping by keeping medical supervision in the GGD-prikstraten. That is a not small task package, which is on the board of the general practitioners. In addition, a number of general practitioners have said: we can actually do even more, and also in our own practice. I said at first that I was not just excited about that, because that would be a lot of fuss. It could take away time and energy for those tasks that really lie on the board of the general practitioners. But one of the other important reasons concerns registration. The registration can really be an issue if we can no longer travel without a booster on 1 February. Let's say the registration isn't in order. Then a lot of people have problems. They are lucky now, because they can get to the doctor quickly, but they will have bad luck if the registration is not in order. In short, I have said that I prefer to concentrate the energy of the general practitioners on the groups that are really for the general practitioners. If it really is the case that the GGDs have already made very good appointments with general practitioners, I am not going to say that that is not allowed. That would be weird. It's okay if they get that sorted out. But that must be done under one condition: that its registration does not go wrong. Because then we really help people out of the rain in the drip. Well, that's not a good idea at all. Under these conditions a number of GGDs can say: I can work with the general practitioners in that way, because the appointments we made are good enough. I said: fine, then do it! But it is not an obligation for other GPs or GPs to do the same. My focus is on the pace and the mass is really made on the GGD locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u345	These statements make me happy. In any case, the Minister shows a lot more flexibility and openness with regard to the use of general practitioners. Dennis Mook, a general practitioner and epidemiologist, said yesterday in Nieuwsuur that the general practitioners can have a very important key position in addressing the approximately 6% that probably has not yet been vaccinated because of doubt and disinformation. That's what I've been arguing for myself before. This may take a little longer than the GMD campaigns and so on, but there is still a world to be won when it comes to convincing those people that the vaccine is working well and that the side effects are negligible compared to the virus itself. So I would ask the Minister to take a look with the general practitioners to see how we can do more about using the general practitioners in the neighbourhoods where the vaccination rate is very low, because the suspicion in the government there is often very high. I am referring here to Norway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u346	I totally agree with that. We've been doing it since May, by the way. There are a lot of initiatives. The campaign for fine-meshed vaccination from the GGD in collaboration with, among others, general practitioners and key figures in the neighbourhoods has been running since May. We do see that general practitioners have a lot of authority towards their own patients. They can also really find the words to help people overcome their doubts. They often know very well who has that doubt. It's fantastic what general practitioners do in there. I've been with you a number of times. It's really fantastic. I don't think we're all gonna get that 11% on board. But what if we can get half of it on board? That would be insanely good. I think the GPs really have a key role in that. But that also means that for me this is an extra reason to say that I am not going to ask the general practitioners to play GGD in their practice. Then the GPs would do something I think the GGD can do with much more speed. But of course I love it when the general practitioner does things that are very difficult to do by someone else, and that is precisely the one-to-one convincing of the people. Mrs Pouw-Verweij asked if it would be possible to have all the vulnerable groups pricked before the turn of the year. As much as possible, yes. As many as possible 60-plussers we try to give a place. The agreements of January we bring forward and we try to keep the free slots as much as possible for 60-plussers. Hence that pass at the place in last week's age groups. I don't think they're gonna make it. This is also due to the groups that Mrs Den Haan also mentioned last time, namely those who are not mobile and cannot go to the GGD-prikstraat. Those are the groups that have a lot of 'time costs' - that sounds very unfriendly, so let me say 'need attention'. For this we also need the use of the general practitioners. That is also why I say: let us please let the doctor choose the gear in that. But it's impossible for them to complete all that before the turn of the year. There's just too many of them for that. It is being worked very hard and I really want to do it as much as possible in January. The mobile 60-pluser may have been done for the turn of the year, and if you happen to have such a neighbor, I would say: help, so that she can report to the prickstraat, because that is really the fastest way. Then: where can people report if they haven't received a text message? They'd rather just wait and see. If you have an appointment, don't call. I know a lot of people call. This week, people called a million times. Of course there is no call center to organize against. A day, huh; there were 1 million in one day. So don't call. If there's room, the text will be sent. The first invitations have already been sent. So it's already working. Where there is a place, an attempt is made via text message to bring forward appointments. And for the rest, as much as possible via the site.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u347	There is an interruption by Mrs Bikker, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u348	With the Minister, I would like to express my respect for all those call centre staff who are happy to plan, move and replan day after day from those appointments. Very good and also nice that it works. This morning we saw at the technical briefing that the group of people for whom this omikron variant now seems most dangerous is the 50-plus group, especially if the BMI is slightly elevated. I would like to ask the Minister whether that is still a good reason to send a warning to that group, which may not be due yet, but a little later: please pay attention with this BMI or about this BMI. But then people are aware of the risks, even in the coming weeks. Did the Minister consider that? And does this have any implications for the booster order as soon as possible following the 60-plussers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u349	To start with the last question: we have said that this hardly pays off. Before you've thought out how to set up a separate invitation route, you're already up. We have had many requests from different professions and also from different target groups, or they could not be brought forward. But if we blink twice with our eyes, it's done. January 7 everyone was invited to make an appointment and everyone was poked in the second half of January. So that doesn't really pay off. You're right, the older you are, the more vulnerable you are. Especially age is the most important predictor of vulnerability, and indeed what your lifestyle is. It is indeed age and lifestyle. That indeed makes that if you have a big BMI, you have a bigger chance to have more fear of that new variant and to have more fear of corona at all. In short, I think it makes very good sense to keep pointing that out. We don't have a separate campaign for people with a high BMI on the retina right now, but let me take advantage of this opportunity, as well as other occasions, to say that it's really necessary to get stuck. Even if you have had that primary vaccination, you are not adequately protected if you have not taken that booster. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go see Mrs. Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u350	Mrs. Bikker is still in doubt, but she's going to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u351	I agree with everything the Minister says. Well, that's nice, too. My particular concern is that this group will also be celebrating Christmas and is in the middle of life. Take the interview with intense Van der Voort in the AD, yesterday or today. He indicated that an increased BMI in 50-plussers gives a higher chance. I would be sorry if we missed that urgency in the message to people who have just been vaccinated, but are now at risk. The Minister does not take that last step to say for this vaccinated group: be a little careful, if your BMI is increased the risks are just a little higher and then this is the chance. I entrust it to the Minister in a friendly, calm manner to further express that urgency at other times. I think it's an important one with the holidays on the doorstep.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u352	I understand what Mrs. Bikker says. I'm gonna go see how we can do that in a good way. But age really is the most important predictor. We really keep inviting at an age, and that's what we're highlighting. So there's plenty of room for the 60-plussers for the turn of the year. I share your concern. I'll see how I can shape and give substance to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u353	Mrs De Vries or Mr Paternotte? Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u354	Age and lifestyle, the Minister rightly said. Mrs Bikker, of course, has a point that there are 60-minners who, for example, are obese and got their first Astrarik from the GP somewhere in the early spring before that prick stop came. Of course, we also get reports about this from time to time. The Minister is, of course, quite right that the large bulk must go through the large GGD locations. What the general practitioners can contribute to this is likely to help the most. Of course, that registration is important. But of course there are also people who run into that call center or who have just failed or who are actually convinced in the general practitioner's practice at that time. Or maybe there's an obesity patient about who the GP himself says: I'm really worried about that during this period. Wouldn't it be a good thing if the general practitioners were to play a role in making things a little easier and more accessible, so they could put those stings?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u355	It's certainly not like it shouldn't be. For the people they prick at home they order themselves, they pick up drawn syringes at the GGD, they put them themselves one day. Of course, you can take those who you think will probably manage if you visit at home, but not if you tell them where to go to get that shot. That's really something that general practitioners can judge for themselves. I'd like to leave that with the GPs. I'm not gonna make that an obligation. Another point is that you have had a debate or four or five years ago, I don't remember; you're losing count. You've made a firm plea for additional commitment on the 50-pluser. I told you then that the Dutch interpretation of the GDPR does not necessarily make it easy in the coupling and the lack of connectionability of systems to know exactly who you should have by general practitioners. Well, general practitioners themselves often know very well who they should have, because they are pretty well aware of the people. Often the unpunished 50-plussers with a moderate lifestyle are the risk runners for a severe infection due to corona. I'm making an extra project to see if we could ask GPs to do something extra for their 50-plussers to reach them and to help them overcome their last doubts or hesitations. That's work in progress. I'll come back to that when the project is finished. It is particularly complex in the legal sense and in the technical sense, but it has to be. I really believe that, as Mrs Gündoğan always says, we can still convince half of that last 11%. I'm just convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u356	The minister just indicated that it all had to be well-recorded. I understand, of course, that this would be best, but we also hear that there is a lot of red tape. Part of that has to do with placing it in the system, I think. The question is whether you couldn't buy time. The most important thing is that the shot is given. A part of the administration could be done after that time. Is there any time savings there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u357	There's a deal. I know from a G.D.D. that he made the appointment with some of his G.D.P.s: set up your prick and make sure you get the registration in two weeks, that you can. I'm okay with an appointment like that. But I'm not okay with "put the shot and we'll look." These are the people who then bang on the door of the department and say: yes, but now I can't travel anymore, so how? We have had months of work on that part of the vaccination campaign in the first series, and I did not want to repeat that. It has been incredibly much work, incredibly much effort to get the registration right. By way of illustration: you have a lot of HIS's and HIS's is a Generalist Information System and but some of the HIS's also have a registration field for vaccination and for the booster campaign. You have to register it in a free field, just to take you into the dark pits of the technique behind it, and in that free field you still have to organize the registration towards the CIMS, the central registration system of the RIVM. We'll have to deal with that for a while. I can't change all the GP information systems overnight either. It's a bit of a complicated mess. We all have technical solutions for that, but I can't take away the fact that the registration thing is really a bit of a mess. It doesn't bother you at the moment when the G.D.D. is pricked. It saves a lot of bureaucratic trouble for general practitioners, giving them even more time to do those groups that can really only be done by general practitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u358	We heard from the technical briefing this morning that it's very complicated for the GGD to get administrative powers. Well, that surprises me a little bit. If that is a problem, perhaps it should be looked at practically. Another question from me is about the agreement line. I understand that 1 million calls are quite a lot and that that is complicated, but also the website is regularly out. Is it still being looked at to solve these problems better, so that people don't get very demotivated and, so to speak, they have to log in at 5:00 a.m. to schedule an appointment at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u359	Of course you shouldn't. So sure, there's a lot of effort on it to get it as technically stable as possible. Often it works fine and occasionally it pops out, indeed, especially when adjustments to the technique of the site need to be made. He'll be out for a while. For the call center we have offered to also provide government officials to scale even larger. I think we're down to 10,000 by now. It's really insane, but the call center is still not quite able to process the huge influx of calls. That's why we ask people to go to the website. I fully agree with Mrs De Vries. A lot is being done about that, too. For the administrative staff, I have asked municipalities to also make their officials available to the GGD sites to help support the administration. Fortunately, so do many municipalities. This is work that can be done relatively easily by others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u360	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u361	This morning, during the technical briefing, Mr Van Dissel explained again how the vaccines work. They were initially made focused on the Wuhan variant. He also said at the coronaper conference that if there's a new variant, the virus is, as it were, wearing a coat. On another variant, the virus puts on a hat and the next one puts on glasses. It becomes increasingly complicated for the vaccine to recognise the virus. So it's going to work less and less well. It is still working sufficiently well and there are still a lot of hospitalizations to avoid. However, the situations in which a selected group of people with a corona pass can go somewhere, but still turn out to infect each other, will increase. If the corona ticket is becoming increasingly unsafe and if a digital travel certificate is becoming increasingly unsafe, why is it being continued? I don't understand. We have just read in the newspaper that, as of 1 February, vaccines will expire within nine months and so you will only receive a digital travel certificate with a booster. I think the Minister intends to do so with the corona tickets. You can't want to keep something that's so unsafe, can you? I understand that the Minister would have wanted that at first, and with a vaccine that works 100%, you might be able to handle it, but you can't. It is working less and less well and the situation is becoming more and more unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u362	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u363	Why does the Minister still do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u364	These are very good questions from Mrs. Agema. I'm incredibly flexible in my iron block layout. I'm gonna pull that up for a second. Mrs Agema raised a question to which Mr Paternotte and Mrs De Vries also touched. This vaccine needs to be adjusted. That's the deal we made with the vaccine suppliers. As soon as the variants follow each other in such a way that a vaccine needs adaptation to remain effective, manufacturers will provide a reasonable effort................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We expect to have that at the beginning of the second quarter. I expect it will also be necessary by then to put that shot. Why does the booster work when the primary vaccination, if it is already a while ago, is working less and less? Now when you ask those experts what they expect with regard to that booster, they say that booster activates the immune system, but we don't know exactly for how long. We don't know for sure, of course, but let's assume that it won't work for a very long time and that you do have to put a new stick on it. Then I'd rather have that new shot put with a new variant of the vaccine. That's one. Two is: you are right that, if the vaccines do not protect enough against infection and even less protection against transmission, against the transmission of the virus, it is becoming increasingly difficult to allow vaccination with the primary sequence that has been set a long time ago to be sufficient to be able to issue a corona pass or a travel certificate, a DCC. For this reason, Europe has said that we want to reduce the validity of a vaccination certificate to nine months. That is why I myself intend to do so in the same way in the Netherlands, i.e. to reduce the validity to nine months. I would like to make that point at the same time as Europe, so 1 February. This means that you can expect from the Cabinet proposals to reduce the validity of the vaccination certificates in order to obtain a corona admission certificate. Maybe I should finish the story in a good way. The same applies to the recovery certificates. We will also have to adapt it in that way. We get a lot of reinfections reported, precisely because of that omicron variant, for exactly the same reason, namely that it protects less against symptomatic infection and also less against transmission. So we're seeing a lot of re-infections. We must therefore also limit the period of validity of the recovery certificates. I would also like to choose the European course of 180 days. I would also like to take a step forward for young people. Now the booster pricks are only approved for 18-plus. You can honestly assume that it is only a matter of time before they are approved at some point for young people. And why not? Why should we not take this step forward in order to improve protection there, too, and thus make it available to young people who have booster pricks? I'll get an emergency opinion on that. I would also like to include them in the adjustment of the corona tickets. In short, you're right. If you want to continue using the corona tickets, you have to keep the protection that is supposed to be used with a corona pass in order. This indeed means that the booster pricks should become part of the issuing of a corona pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u365	We have rarely talked this way along, I think, in the final agreements of the ministership. I really said quite the opposite and drew the opposite conclusion. The Minister says: yes, but we remain with a third prick that issues corona tickets. I said the opposite. In England they already count with more infectiouss per 100,000 in all age groups. If you have to give Wuhan three times on one Omikron, you create an increasingly unsafe situation. It was already the case with those old people in Sappemeer who went clovercoats and with one death with the former room members who went out, with more than half of them infected. All a corona pass, all vaccinated twice. The ic nurses in Italy last week: all vaccinated three times, all tested, but 70 out of 173 were infected anyway. If you keep giving up on Omikron every time, you'll be sure to avoid some hospitalizations.I'm not saying you shouldn't do that either.But if you connect to that you can travel or go into the hospitality business, you'll create nothing but an unsafe situation. That's why I don't think you should. I think you should lift the corona tickets and the digital travel certificate, and we should all be aware that it's just a very dangerous virus for those who are vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u366	That is also a choice, but that means that Mrs Agema is advocating more restrictive measures and a longer lockdown. That's the choice you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u367	Mrs. Agema may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u368	Just answer my question! You say: with what you want, the conclusion is that you want longer in lockdown. That doesn't make any sense. What's proven to be effective is mouth caps. I referred here last week to the Göttinger study, where it was assumed that FFP2 masks work 74 times better. Just not meeting each other is something completely different than locking things up or a lockdown. Ventilation We said it here last week, we can reduce the number of infections in a nightclub by 70%. It must also have a major effect in schools. That's the kind of thing you can do to prevent a lockdown. We weren't talking about a lockdown here. We were talking about corona tickets. We were talking about digital travel certificates. You'll create an unsafe situation three times. I believe that the VWS Minister should decide not to proceed with corona tickets, 2G and corona travel certificates. These are simply unsafe, just for the elderly, just for those former roommates who went on that trip and for those older people who went clubbing and all thought they were safe with their corona ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u369	That is precisely why we do not use corona tickets at the moment, because we have a lockdown. At present, corona tickets are not used to grant access to anything. It is very sad that this cannot be done, but it is simply the reality that it cannot be done at the moment. You can only open up with corona tickets again if the security you may assume from corona tickets is actually substantiated. You can't do that right now, if people aren't bossed. That's one. Right now, we don't have any corona tickets. Yes, of course we want to work with that again. But to actually make it work in a safe way, you're gonna need to make that booster shot really part of the corona tickets. Can you do without a corona pass? Of course you can. That could be a choice. I think you'd be the only country in Europe to do this, but you can. You'll need other extra measures. The only way you can handle it is with mouth caps and ventilation? The answer is no. You'll have to work with contact-limiting measures for longer. As undesirable as some of you may find corona tickets, I think it's a relatively limited intervention. You can also do without, but that just means that you will have to take more other measures. If you don't work with corona tickets, this means you need more contact limiting measures. So please let us make sure that they are as safe and effective as possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u370	Well, I guess I'm gonna have to use my last interruption. I would have liked to use it with Mr Blok because of the shop closures and the hardness clause I proposed. So I hope he will at least respond to that. I don't have any more interruptions, but that's the way it is. The disdain for things like ventilation, we know now after so long. For example, our own RIVM has calculated that you can reduce the number of infections in nightclubs by 70%. This is also true when it comes to schools and all offices. The Minister would come back to a motion of mine which was held at his request. What you can expect from ventilation is huge. The Göttinger study shows that you can also get a huge harvest with mouth caps. The minister says by definition: 2G, 3G and corona tickets have a better effect. That's just not the case when half the older people who went out get infected. It's just not the 70 out of 173 ic nurses who were infected when they were three times vaccinated. So it's not the choice or-or. You have to do the things that are good, that work and that are proven to be effective. Things like mouth caps are proven to be effective. I hate them, too, but they're proven effective. Ventilation is incredibly important. Don't meet, don't meet, that works. But there's no evidence that shop closures or lockdowns work. I told you, 2G and corona tickets are completely unsafe. That's why you shouldn't want to go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u371	There is, of course, evidence that anti-contact measures work. A few weeks ago we were over 20,000 infections and today for the first time again below 10,000. What happened in the meantime? Contact restrictions. I don't want them either, but they work like a tierelier against the virus. However, they also cause a lot of suffering and that is why you would prefer to have as little contact-limiting measures as possible. If that's what you want, it'll be great if you do work well with corona tickets. It's never or-or, Mrs. Agema. It's never or-or, but always and-and-and-and. We will therefore have to do everything: both mouth caps and ventilation, and contact-limiting measures if necessary, as short as possible. We'll also need the corona tickets in all their forms, I suppose. But let's have that debate in the first week after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u372	I had a question about the boosters. The minister was already ahead of the next shot. Maybe he'll be here next spring. I assume that there may also be another fifth in the autumn of next year. The way in which the booster campaign has now gone was not an easy one. At first, the pace was too low. I have a lot of respect for what the GGD's are doing, but I heard this morning in the briefing that there is still being looked at at what is the most efficient way to vaccinate as many people as possible as quickly as possible. After all, we were hoping that those maps would be here by now. For the campaigns that are to come, can we have the roadmaps in order so that a button can be pressed when a new booster campaign is needed and not everything has to start from scratch? I hope the Minister understands my question. I do not want us to go back behind the facts in the next booster campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u373	I'm looking at the qualifications about the current booster campaign a little differently. I find it rather impressive at what speed is now being scaled up. Last week we did 700,000, this week we do 1 million and next week we do 1.5 million. It's only going further and faster, so I think the scaling up that RIVM and the GGD show is impressive, because it's an execution job I have you there. That's really impressive. I do agree, however, that we must move towards a structural organisation of the vaccination campaign. That's what Mrs De Vries said. At the moment, I cannot predict exactly whether this next shot will have to be done exactly in the second quarter or whether it will have to be done in the third quarter. I don't know yet. However, I am assuming a regular campaign, at least for vulnerable groups. That campaign will just turn out to be necessary to maintain the protection, just as long until it doesn't have to, until we're sufficiently protected and you can really talk about an endemic situation where you only have to poke some of the people. For now, I expect we're gonna have some more shots. That means that you need to get to a more structural organization and that you don't have to put it down as a separate project per prick. I very much agree with that. We're gonna have to prepare that. The RIVM and the GGD also have that on the retina. At present this is for the second quarter, so immediately after the completion of the current booster campaign the following will be prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u374	That's good to hear. But can we be a little more certain that it can be done at a higher rate? The moment you start is the result of a choice made by the minister, but I was surprised at the 25 GDs. I think they are doing a fantastic job at the moment, but there was also a lot of frustration, both with the people who work there and with the people who call the call centres and the elderly who are being sent from hot to hot throughout the country, because it all doesn't go as it should. I want to avoid this kind of frustration. I think we can do that if we prepare better. I also want us to learn what is the best way to do it and that the 25 GDs aren't going to do it all in their own way, because that's how they came up with it. There should be an idea underneath how it's the best and the fastest way. Even if you prick 1 million a week, it'll take more than two months for you to have the whole population, even next year. Maybe the pace should be much higher, I just want to say, when Omikron 2.0 is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u375	That's conceivable. Of course, we don't know that. Now there is a very acute reason to organise the booster campaign in an extremely short time. I think you should have the surgery in such a way that you can and that you should be able to do it in a very short time. So they can. I find that incredibly impressive. For the second quarter, we need to prepare a way of working in which all the lessons that can be learned about this campaign are learned. They are of course already being applied during this campaign. We started working on this campaign by bringing forward the SMS contact to invite specific groups. That's actually a lesson from the previous vaccination campaign. That the entire registration is automated and takes much less time at a location, starts from January. It's worked out in the last few months. A lot of lessons have been learned. This is, to a large extent, the reason why we can now scale up so quickly. The next campaign needs to be more streamlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u376	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u377	For most people, the frustration of the call center is greatest at the moment. By the way, this is not least the case for the GGD itself. Organizing 10,000 men behind the phone is insane. But if you get a million phone calls, you just can't get rid of it. We're gonna have to do that in surgery smoother.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u378	Clear. Mrs. Van den Berg, CDA. I sometimes try to avoid repeating the contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u379	I also drew attention to it last week, but I continue to receive emails about it. It's about people who aren't digitally skilled. Otherwise, they would have all made an appointment behind the computer. The 70-plussers and sometimes even 80-plussers are still waiting for a paper invitation. Without that invitation, they can't call the G.D.D. I would very much like to ask the Minister if he can do anything for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u380	Sure. They're just getting a paper invitation. No misunderstanding. They get it, but it's much faster if you make a digital appointment. That's one. Two. We also help people make an appointment digitally. That's what we do at the library, for example. That's a formal help. It's fantastic what the libraries do at that point. They've already helped a lot of people, a QR code, and now a deal. Last night, I had a meeting with the presidents of the Security Council. Once again, I said: if you want to help as a municipal organisation, open your municipal offices to make sure that people can walk in there to make an appointment digitally; help them out. A lot of municipalities already do that. Of course we also say: if you have an old neighbor or old neighbor, give us a hand. And against children: help your parents make that appointment at the GGD, both when they bring and fetch and when they make the appointment in a digital way. During off-peak calls also helps great if you want to make an appointment, instead of all in the morning at 8:01. In short, there are a lot of ways and possibilities to call easily. They'll get that letter, too, all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u381	This morning at the technical briefing it appeared again that the vaccine effectiveness against both infection and hospitalization is a lot less. We also heard from Mr Van Dissel that there is probably a new vaccine available in April, against omikron. I would like to ask the Minister when he expects everyone in the Netherlands to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u382	I just explained that. I expect it to be available in the second quarter. As soon as it becomes available, we'll buy it, too. In fact, we already ordered it. We also made the agreement that all deliveries that are already on the route will be replaced by the new items as soon as they are on the market. Of Pfizer alone, we added 35 million contracted vaccines for 2022 and 2023, so 17.5 in the first half of this year and 17.5 in the first half of next year. From the moment there's a new version of the vaccine, say the omikron version of the vaccine, we're getting that new stuff delivered. That's contractual. On top of that, we have agreed on many options with the EU-27. We highlight the first option, which could lead to additional delivery in the second quarter. So in the second quarter, if necessary and the new stuff is there, we can put the next shot. The order is therefore completely focused on it, the contractual agreements are completely focused on it, the numbers we want in stock in the second quarter are completely focused on it and the organization is completely focused on the fact that in the second quarter we will be able to put in that new shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u383	My question was when everyone could have received the vaccine, because the effectiveness of the current vaccines is much less with omikron. After two doses it is now 20% and after a booster 60%. I am asking this question because I would like to know what that means for the long-term plans and for the strategy later, but also, of course, for the 2G proposal, if we know that vaccine effectiveness is a lot less against infection and against hospitalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u384	This is a very fair question. For the time being, I think we should at least help ourselves for the long term by simply having the vaccines that are needed available. Whether we should actually use them and, if so, for whom, can all be determined at a later date, if at least we ensure that we have vaccines at our disposal. In the total portfolio we have all platforms, not only mRNA, but also protein et cetera. All platforms we want. And we want just as many vaccines that we can prick everyone, all 12+, twice a year, minimum. We also have contractual options if it could be more frequent. But we have the vaccines. Besides, we need the organization. We have it in place, but it can be improved further and structured. That organization needs to be ready. The policy must aim at maximum protection. Maximum protection simply means that you should want to benefit from the protection you can derive from vaccines. So maximum protection is just part of the policy. Then the corona tickets. To make sure that you can really use it effectively again, it will be necessary in the short term, so for the second half of this winter, to make the booster stick part of it. If you want to work effectively with corona tickets again, and that is what we want very much, because that could help to minimise the need for contact limiting measures, then that also means that you have to make the booster stick part of it, both of the tickets and of the corona tickets. That is why, before 1 February, we really want to make the booster shot part of that. So for issuing a vaccination certificate to get a corona pass, you shouldn't have been pricked more than nine months ago. And if you don't, the booster's gonna have to go over it. For recovery certificates, it means you can't count on another year. You're gonna have to go six months because we see a lot of re-infections. Well, that'll give you that safety. By the way, we see that the effectiveness of the booster is now increasing considerably. It is then about effectiveness against symptomatic infection. In fact, we do not know enough about the effectiveness against transmission. We also do not know enough about the effectiveness of serious infection at the moment. That will have to prove to be true, but the assumption is that the booster will, at least for some time, offer proper protection again. For this reason, among other reasons, let us send to the Chamber at the end of that first week the letter which answers the further questions about the corona access card and the modeling, because we really want to take these kinds of questions with us before we can have an adequate debate on the corona access tickets. So I'm assuming that that letter will be there at the end of the first week after the recess, so on the 14th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u385	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u386	There is still a little confusion about the numbers mentioned by the Minister. This morning at the technical briefing it seemed that it was a bit tight in terms of number of boosters, because there was still some delivery to be made in January. But I heard the minister say 17.500,000 in 2022 and 17.500,000 in 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u387	Only for Pfizer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u388	That's only for Pfizer. And what are the totals? 'Cause if you're gonna start with two shots, you're gonna need more than that number. Is there anything more to be said about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u389	I've put them in the letters before, so it's all public and transparent information. I believe that it is over 50 million in total, with Pfizer's deliveries being the largest for both years. So 35 million over two years time, in two halves delivered in the first half of both years, but with monthly deliveries of course. That is why we also have an additional option for the second quarter, to see if we could have enough to get everyone back in the second quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u390	The minister mentioned the numbers supplied by Pfizer. Now we have heard this morning from Mr Van Dissel that Janssen appears to be protecting longer. Is the Minister also considering boostering with Janssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u391	Yes. We have made an urgent request to the Health Council to see if we could also use Jansen. We still have stock of that, so it could be. What seems to be working very well at the moment is Pfizer on top of Jansen. Other results are not yet available, but according to the first research results this seems to work very well. That's how you see things can change again. Jansen's effectiveness is now estimated to be quite high. With new scientific knowledge, things change. Mr. Chairman. I'll get on with it. What are we doing in human help? I think I've said enough about the general practitioners. But let me say on this, of course, that we are tackling any aid that actually helps with both hands. It is sometimes thought that people have to go to training for a long time. Maybe it's good to say something about that. When it comes to an administrative employee, the training is four and a half hours. When it comes to picks that need a refresher course, the training is two to three hours. When it comes to a host on site, the training is three to four hours. When it comes to a location doctor, e-learning plus work-in takes up to four hours, depending on the experience. So all new employees have a short training period of two to four hours. In short, anyone who says he has to spend weeks in training is finishing up a bit. I think I may have answered a few questions, but Mr Paternotte asked me to keep them in service. That was a problem a few weeks ago. We've made an arrangement for that. If a number of temporary contracts have already been awarded, and the Labour Market Act requires a balance to be struck in a fixed contract, then we are now saying: hire those people, at least if they are good people. If that means you don't get rid of them anymore and you therefore have a complicated staffing problem, then you can tell on VWS' multi-cost scheme. So we solved that. GGDs can keep their people in service if they want to. Especially in relation to what I have just said to Mr Hijink, and what I believe has also been your input, namely that we need to work towards a structural situation and that we need to be able to keep running that booster campaign when it is necessary or that we need to be able to scale it up very quickly, this is certainly not an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u392	I'd like to see that as an opportunity, too. When we finish that booster campaign by the end of January, you might have to do something again in the spring. We have now said that people can do self-tests instead of going to the test streets. According to data, there are many more infections in Denmark than here. But do we actually know that, now that a lot of people are doing quick tests and the view of the virus is less? Can we not use the people who are employed at the GGD, because they are good people and they are ready after the booster campaign, for more BCO or for opening the test streets to anyone who needs such a test, for example from education, so that we can get that view back and open more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u393	Now people from the testing company are transferred to the vaccination company to help organise the acceleration. As a result, there is a little less test capacity. We were at over 140,000 and it goes up to about 100,000, but it has to go up again as soon as possible, also in preparation for omikron. So we want it to be higher than where we come from; we want it to be 200,000. We do this by choosing staff from the SON test streets that now have not so much to do for testing for access. Commercial providers under SON are also in line with the test infrastructure. If they meet all the connection conditions, it is also a solution to achieve more test capacity. There is carte blanche where it is about good people who can hire the GGD, even for a longer period of time, to work either in the test company or in the vaccination company or to do BCO. I would like to make two comments. The first is that the GGD likes to work with students who, when the catering industry opens up again, also love working there. That is also right, because it is also very nice to work in the catering industry. So it's pretty hard to hold on to that type of staff. Besides, they say: why don't you just put 50,000 people at the GGD on the payroll? You'll see when you need them. Why don't you do it that way? Well, good and talented people don't like doing nothing and standing on a payroll until there's work. So that's not that easy either. What you need to do, above all, is organize enough basics. The basic capacity must therefore be in order and you must be able to organize the scaling very quickly. For this your card box needs to be in order and also the ideas on how to complement the capacity with flexible staff. Then, Mrs Westerveld, why not have the opportunity to test for access? That's a very good idea. We've considered that before. As it happens, not so much is being tested for access now, but let's hope that this will be the case again in the short term. Then I think it's very nice to see if you can do that. Now we just have to do some mass poking and unfortunately there is little access possible, so little testing for access, but later it is absolutely a good idea to do that. Boostering in other countries continues to support, says Mrs Gündoğan. We're just fulfilling our donation objective. We were going to donate 27 million vaccines, and I believe we're going to reach 26.8 million. So we simply meet our donation objective and we also want to continue to donate. I therefore share Mrs Gündoğan's view that, especially as a rich Western country, you also have a responsibility for the rest of the world to ensure that people are quickly pricked there. Then what do we do to help build infrastructure? We are a major donor of, for example, Gavi and even the WHO. That is actually what we are doing with all the G20 countries and also with all the European countries. With that, you also help build the capacity there. Why children vaccinate, Mr Van Haga asks. That's what he asked last time and so was the time before that. The answer is still: because it is a very sensible idea. It works both for individual health protection and for indirect health protection, because children and others suffer from all restrictive measures. Mr. Chairman. I think I've had all the booster questions, all the vaccination questions, with that. Then I can move on to the care capacity and what we do before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u394	Before you proceed, Mrs De Vries of the VVD has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u395	Maybe I missed it, but I had another question about the fixed contracts at the GGD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u396	I just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u397	Yeah, it's answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u398	No restrictions, that's the short answer. The hospital numbers. You saw the technical briefing this morning. If you look at the pressure on the care, you can see that it is still very high, but it is moving in the right direction. The question is, of course, how long it will go in the right direction. We don't know many things about the omikron variant yet, but what we do know is that it spreads faster and that it can indeed lead to hospitalization. The first hospitalizations are just there. In London that is probably the best and the first of the Western European countries, so we are watching these figures very closely. The forecasts are, of course, based on the assumption that there is a considerable degree of sickness due to this new variant. Of course, that couldn't be too bad. Let's hope so. But hope isn't a strategy, so let's also prepare for what might happen and those are just very large numbers. Of course, that's the reason, precaution, that we're quarantined, or no, quarantined, hear me go into lockdown. You often hear the misunderstanding that if we had more care capacity we would not have to take these measures. I honestly don't believe in that. Look at what exponential growth can do and certainly what it can do very quickly spreading variant, potentially, if the disease is even slightly similar to the delta variant. Then in such a short time things go so incredibly wrong. That is, of course, the reason for all OMTs in all European countries to issue very strong warnings to their governments. This will also lead to additional measures in all countries. We have indeed chosen the precautionary route very strongly, because we simply consider it necessary. What are the scenarios, Mrs De Vries, Mr Paternotte and Mrs Kuik, and how do we deal with them? First of all, the numbers of today, such as those in Mr Van Dissel's forecasts of RIVM, are surrounded by a great deal of uncertainty. Let's not look at the scenario of no additional measures. After all, we have taken additional measures. Let us not look at the scenario in which you only take measures in January, far after Christmas, because we have now taken measures. Let's stay close to home. That's a strict lockdown. In the RIVM projections that were on display this morning, that was a strict lockdown from Christmas. This was a forecast with a median peak occupancy in the hospitals of about 7,500, of which about 1,900 on the ic, at the end of January. That's more than we can handle. We haven't chosen a lockdown since Christmas, but from now on. That makes you slow down and lower the wave. The figures are based on 80% boosters. That's why I'm hammering at 100% boosters. That's how you slow down and lower the wave. But nevertheless, and all the factors of uncertainty aside, it can be about very large numbers. On these numbers we try to get more and more grip. The most uncertain factor is actually the degree of sickness. This is all based on a similar illness. If it's less, you'll still get large numbers, but maybe fewer people on the ic, for example. For all such scenarios we try to see what the translation would be to the care question, what it means for the hospitals, ic and clinic, for the first line, for the general practitioners, for the vvt, for the elderly and for the nursing homes. In all the palettes of care we need to know what the impact could be of a possible omikron wave. This is a first step in the work of the team that is currently working out the scenarios. The second step is the next. We have phase three plans. Phase 3 is the stage in which care reaches when demand exceeds available capacity. The question is: what is further scalable and usable in all regions at the moment in the plans? That is pulled out of the closet and maximum stretched to what you could achieve on the basis of the current plans. The third question that lies ahead of the team that we have put to work with these scenarios is the following. If you let the numerical scenarios work on you and see what is to be achieved in the regions on the basis of the current scale plans, what additional care capacity is needed? Then it may not necessarily be a matter of ic capacity, but it is a matter of emergency capacity outside the hospital. I believe that is what Mr Paternotte said. All these questions are ahead of us. They're just gonna work on that over the next few weeks, over Christmas. I would, of course, like to inform you about this in the first half of January, unless it is already necessary to initiate some of those plans. I will, of course, inform you more about this. Then the question about afterward, the coming winters. Mrs De Vries had that question, but also Mr Van der Staaij. In fact, all the groups had that question, I see. I think we are all very impressed by the numbers in terms of the care capacity of today. I believe the hospitals have processed 90,000 additional hospital admissions and, on top of that, 16,000 to 17,000 ic recordings. That's a million extra days of nursing. That's what the hospitals realized. When people ask "why isn't care scaled up?', So they really roll off their seats in care, because the care has been incredibly scaled up over the past twenty months. The point is that care has been scaled up in such a way that a lot of other care has also had to be scaled down. That's our big problem. We can only really scale up if we also scale down a lot of other care. That's why I agree with everyone who says: we really need to see if that's possible, because even in the next winter you can't rule out having a wave again. As we can get a flu wave in winter, we can also get a covid wave in winter, maybe every winter in the coming years. It could be. You actually have to be prepared for that without actually reaching a lockdown or having to scale a lot of other care again. However, that is of course easier said than done, because also that covid care needs to be manned. There's just people standing by the bed standing somewhere else. You can't magic new people. There are 1.3 million people already working in health care. That's not just gonna be a lot more. So you're gonna have to rearrange it. You're gonna have to refold it. You will need to make it flexible scalable without scaling down the other care, especially the acute planable care. That's what we're trying to do next. We have set up an expert team to look with care and with Defense at how you should organise that logistics in the next winter, and to figure out where you could actually try that in the second half of this winter, if you want to do so in the second half of this winter, as if it were next year, so that in the second half of this winter we will have something to do with it. And then it's definitely about concentration. Some of your groups mentioned this, and rightly so. That's also about concentration. But concentration isn't the only thing. Care coordination can also lead to an enormous impact on efficiency. If patients end up in the right place at one time, instead of occupying a hospital bed for too long, and another cannot go on that bed, then that is also a huge efficiency gain that you could book. And how do you do that? Then how do you do that care coordination in a good way? In addition, we need to get this task force working in order to properly organise the best possible use of healthcare professionals. Mrs Kuik has given ideas about this and she has also given ideas about it in an earlier motion. Mrs Agema has also put forward many ideas about this. Even if the ideas are intricately feasible, I remember that Mrs Agema has advocated, for example, a full-time bonus, where his eyes and eyes are legally awful, thinking that we must have an incentive and the financial incentive to work more. Of course, that can help in times of crisis. How, if it is not possible with a full-time bonus according to the Human Rights College? How? All that sort of search is housed in a task force. This morning I sent you these two assignments, both to the expert team and to the task force. They will be part of the long-term approach we want to come back to you at the end of January. That brings me to the next block on the long-term approach. The Prime Minister has already said a lot about it, but I think it is good to add a few more things. The first is that I agree with everyone here that you want to move towards a long-term strategy or a long-term approach that, with more order, peace and regularity in decision-making and with more predictability for the people at home, offers an approach that makes life with the virus as comfortable as possible. We want to ensure that society remains as open and as safe as possible, so that people can just live their lives and impose as little restrictions as possible, and certainly not as shocking as they are now. I would, of course, like to make the point that the virus does not care very much about that wish. We have to be honest about that, too. We did not express that wish only yesterday; we have actually had that wish for a long time. Too often we have been confronted with the fact that the virus simply doesn't care and puts us on very complicated issues each time, which means that we have to take measures that we really do not want. Think of the schools we debated with each other last week. We didn't want that anymore. We really didn't intend to do that anymore. But, yes, the virus. Think of the lockdown. We really didn't have to do that anymore. But, yes, the virus. Of course, even if you have a brilliant long-term strategy, that can still be the case in the new year. We can't predict that with certainty. What we can do and what we need to do is to put more order, peace and regularity in the decision-making process. That is what Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kuik advocate, and that is quite right. In reviewing our approach, decision-making is also one of the key issues. We need to look again at everyone's role, especially at the role of the cabinet, how do we prepare our decisions for the role of the OMT vis-à-vis the cabinet, and perhaps also how we discuss the decisions here with each other. I think we're about at debate number 40 right now, 45, I'm hearing this and I don't know how you've experienced them all 45, but let's at least say that they were very intensive and that there was also a certain amount of repetition of patterns in them. I don't think it's been rare for you to go home and think: now we've been sitting together for 12 hours, but have we really seriously checked the cabinet together and have we really been able to discuss the approach, even for the longer term? I think that was too often not the case. We can do better. We can do better together. I think it's very worthwhile to find out how to do that with each other. That's one of the themes. Another theme is therefore the care capacity. I just went into that. Another issue is the measures, so the way we take action together and also some sectors themselves can do so. Mrs. Kuik rightly said so. If you have to learn to live with the virus in terms of just staying among us for a little while, then that could indeed mean that some of those beautiful things that could otherwise have been done all year round should become more seasonal work and then those sectors should actually reinvent themselves. The cabinet has to help with that. This is exactly the kind of subject we want to discuss with each other over the coming period. We shall do so first, at least for the second half of this winter, at the end of January. That's what all the conversations are on. In any case, we want to come up with a long-term strategy for the coming years at the end of February. That is also the rhythm that we announced here in the debate on 1 December. That's how we want to do it. This requires intensive discussions with different parties over Christmas and during the first weeks of January. We do not want to make that up under the desk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u399	We knew that this was the 45th Corona debate because Mr Paternotte, who always keeps these things statistically, told us last week that it was the 44th debate. You'll be a bit of a nerd by yourself if you do these corona debates long enough. I say that with all my love. Excuse the people. I also know that last time, in the debate on 1 December, the Minister said that he was not knee-deep in the Bureau. I remember that line. But I also know that we have been discussing the longer term with each other in the previous months. I told the Prime Minister this too. I mean, when we come up with a long-term planning at the end of January, about things like how to organise society in the longer term, it's gonna be the end of February again. The new cabinet team has to start. Next thing you know, it'll be somewhere in May. Each time something new arises, a new momentum, a new virus variant or perhaps another crisis. I say this separately from the fact that it is rightly said that we need to look at our organisation, we need to look at communication and things have to be different. But how do you make, excuse, these promises now also deeds? It is not the first time that this has been asked for. Others have also been involved, such as the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. The WRR has made recommendations. This is happening in many areas. But how are you gonna act? That's actually my main question. And how do we hold on to what we've agreed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u400	That question is quite rightly so. Look, this cabinet is gonna turn over the stick to the next cabinet running. That's the metaphor the Prime Minister used. I know that running very well. So that's what we're gonna do. We're at full speed. We do this until a new team is on the platform and then we hand the stick over to the next team, who will continue with the same topics and continue the debate with you. That's point one. The second point is that the various themes I presented at the time have all been put into effect. These are the five themes: the intervention system and the question to which you are directing, the measures, the care capacity, the decision-making system and the communication. Those conversations are already in full swing. Of course it is up to the next team to continue that debate with you, but that next team certainly doesn't have to start from scratch. All the work that is needed for this is already being done. I sincerely believe that we, or the next cabinet, should be so precise as to keep that promise in the direction of your Chamber. That is the promise to come up with a long-term letter at the end of January, which at least says how to get through the second half of this winter as safely and as openly as possible. This letter also provides a look at the effective long-term approach for the coming winter, with a real long-term approach on the table by the end of February. At the end of March, I believe that the pandemic preparedness plan should be there, for the pandemic after covid, on which we should be prepared. Let me add the following. Mrs. Kuik, or indeed the PvdA, has always consistently and consistently said: what can you learn from the way you did it and what can you improve? I think we've seized those moments, too. Look at learning the first wave. We did. Learning about nursing homes was before the summer holidays, and this whole process of evaluation has indeed led to an adaptation of the approach after the summer, with the roadmaps, on which we have had many debates. For the summer of last year, it has been said that we should actually come up with an approach by autumn. There's been one. Other limit values have been set. In short, we've had this journey with each other before. What you want now is to get out of crisis mode. You want to move towards a long-term approach, so that it is no longer hit and run from crisis decision to crisis decision, but an effective long-term approach. I would like to make the point that we also need to make this agreement with the virus. But at least we, as we sit here together and have the decisions to take together, can come to an approach. The debate can be continued at the end of January. We have to make sure of that. So should our successors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u401	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u402	Yes. In fact, I have already addressed Mrs van den Berg's questions about the longer term. The technique has added the Prime Minister. I believe that Mrs Gündoğan's questions have also been answered. The questions about the aid packages will come back to Mr Blok. Then I had one more question to answer. That is Mrs Bikker's question about the municipalities. We've found the letter by now. I'm on the same team as the Prime Minister. I usually read all the letters from the VNG. Of course, I could have read this one, but I hadn't done that so far. The good news is that they have been invited to the review process that we are entering at the moment. They are also in the social sounding board group that we have set up. Of course, we work with the municipalities every day. A cabinet is nothing without the municipalities. So, of course, we will involve them in everything. I know there are a lot of good ideas, at mayors, at city councils, about how to deal with this nasty virus in the longer term. We make very grateful use of those ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u403	Thank you. I am the first to see Mrs Bikker, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u404	Thank you to the Minister for having read with a quick eye the good ideas of the VNG and already knows that he is going to meet those good ideas at a forthcoming meeting. My question went a little further. If he prepares the long-term strategy, will the Minister also look with the municipalities at the implications for regional policy and for local policy? Indeed, in previous debates, we have expressed together how important it is for society to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u405	Could you keep it down in the hall a little bit? Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u406	It's very disrespectful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u407	Mrs. Bikker's having trouble. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u408	Cozy, Mr. Chairman. I was concerned that the municipalities could take responsibility, together with, for example, catering entrepreneurs or schools. I see real added value there for long-term policy. I would be very sorry if we now had a high policy, where the opportunity really lies, with this letter which the Minister has read enthusiastically, to take the urgency with the mayors locally where it is needed and to put it into a long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u409	Absolutely. Especially if you want to get out of crisis mode and move towards a more standardised decision-making process and towards normalized relations, then the municipalities are of course in the right direction. By the way, the municipalities are doing great, even now. The examples of this are endless. I saw an example of Amsterdam and other municipalities making tests available to their people. Those tests are then presented, but it is really the municipalities themselves that make a package of them and that also spread et cetera. A government is nothing without the municipal government. That's really the first government for most people. So we're really gonna have to do that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u410	Thank you for that enthusiasm, too. This is precisely what I want to see in this long-term strategy. I just had a mayor on the phone yesterday who's working hard on a pilot to get the schools open with sabbatical tests. That is exactly another example of a mayor thinking: try to do mine here. The minister says he's having a conversation. I am asking very precisely whether there will also be such an effect that it will be visible at local and regional level how this will take shape?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u411	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u412	I had another question. I am perhaps in the twilight zone between Mr Blok and Mr De Jonge. I had another question about the crucial professions. Should I be with Minister De Jonge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u413	I see both the directors looking a bit questioning, so perhaps you can ask the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u414	He's not in my set, so I'll take a look at Mr Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u415	No, it's a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u416	Ask the question. Then you're gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u417	Behind the window we try to bring it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u418	The question is about vets and not the vets, but the pet doctors. These have been described as public practice for the service sector, which should be open, but they have not been identified as a crucial profession. For example, a wine merchant is a crucial profession, but a veterinarian is not a crucial profession. As a result, veterinarians cannot take their children to the bso, whereas animal care is very much needed. Pet animals also have zoonoses, for example. Every veterinarian in the Netherlands, even though you are a pet doctor, can also be used in livestock farming. Suppose there is a calamity there and there are more vets needed, then they have to work there too. Animal husbandry is about food again. So, that twilight zone is still there. My question really is: why was it put in service that it may be open, but has the profession of veterinary surgeon not been regarded as a crucial profession and a wine trade is? I think that's a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u419	I'll see if he knows the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u420	When it comes to pet animals, I will immediately look at Mr Blok. Apart from that, I threw out a little helpline, so I'll get back to you on that. Okay, then we'll continue with the next block: the corona tickets and the testing. I've treated the corona tickets in between as well as pause numbers, so I can skip them further. I also answered the 2G questions, apart from Mrs Van de Berg's question about the timing of the timetable. At the end of the first week after the recess, which is the fourteenth, I would like to have the letter with your Chamber to answer all the questions that have been asked about the further modelling, the impact of omikron, the adjustment of the corona admission certificate and the implication of the booster. That's very technical. It's a very complicated job. We're working really hard on that, and I really need a little time to do that. So that's what I want to do by the end of that first week. That brings me to Mrs Westerveld's test questions. She asked for work to be done on testing by further scaling capacity and organising test locations closer to home. That is already quite intense at the GGD at the moment. If we add the test lines under ZonMw to that test capacity, it will become even more intense. What we also do is make the self-test policy part of the total range of test options. That is a bit in line with last year's GroenLinks initiative paper. We can see that this is being used very well. I already outlined last week that there are millions of self-tests per week going through. That's very nice and useful. We see that quite a lot of tests at the GGD are now confirmatory tests of previously conducted self-tests. Then you can assume that the total number of self-tests that are taken is still much more intensive. That is also an answer to Mr Paternotte's question about self-testing of classes. That's a lot of them. That's what we're gonna do. Not now, because the schools are closed, but after the holiday they will be delivered again. Then Mrs Bikker's question: keep testing and keep communicating about it. Every day is test day, I said to you last time, and we will continue to communicate that way, with special attention to that and with reference to the motion adopted. Which brings me to the varia, Mr. Chairman. We're at varia again. The schools. Can we make it safer by boosting ventilation even more? A lot is being done to improve ventilation. Mr Slob has discussed this with your Chamber several times. Last time, I was there. This concerns the Scheme specific allowance ventilation in schools, the SUVIS scheme. The application of CO-meters per educational area is one of the mandatory measures under the SUVIS scheme. So if you want to use additional money as a school, on top of your own educational accommodation or on top of municipal resources, from the SUVIS scheme, you are obliged to let those CO-meters be part of the plan. Schools are also free to purchase CO meters outside this scheme with their own resources. They cost almost nothing, so schools can really pay for that. They're generic amounts, but schools can really pay for that. So any school can buy those CO meters. Actually, it's been that way for a long time. Also in the hand-outs and the advice given earlier by the Space-OK Knowledge Centre, this was a component. This makes CO-meters part of the advice and hand-outs, part of the ventilation incentive scheme, and that does not necessarily mean that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u421	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Paternotte, which is partly exciting and does not share.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u422	The Minister says that after Christmas, self-tests will be handed out again when the schools open again. I get that. My question was merely ""and it has not been answered" or according to the OMT advice, the self-tests will become available for the whole school instead of just from Group 6.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u423	Keep me good, but I thought we were gonna deliver them from third grade. I shall come back to that in second place. No, I'm getting it from sixth grade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u424	I already did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u425	I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u426	As far as ventilation is concerned, the Minister says that schools can do that if they want to. Of course, the catering industry can also use a CO measurement. You can do something about the ventilation. We now know how important this is to safety. Fire safety regulations aren't something you can do. Or: you can install an emergency exit or apply working conditions if you want. No, you just say that's what we do with each other. If we know how important air quality is for the spread of the virus and if we know that ventilation in many schools is not yet in order and that this also requires some work, this could help enormously. I do not understand why no appointments are made, which means that in the end, just like in Belgium, there is a CO meter in every classroom. Once those tests work out, you can see if you can do that with air cleaners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u427	However, I am a little looking for what Mr Paternotte wants more. If there were a financial problem: there is no excuse in the regular housing payment and in the supplementary scheme why one should not be able to pay it. That's one. Two is: in advising schools on what to do, it has been part of the policy for a long time, with an urgent advice to do it. It's just a good idea to do that ventilation and those CO meters in the classroom. So, yeah, what else would you need on top of it, which would seem to be a hindrance right now? I am curious what Mr Paternotte sees and learns from Belgium, what goes better there than in the Netherlands. To be honest, I think we're doing more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u428	One last interruption. I think Mr Paternotte means: why is it not an obligation? Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u429	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u430	Instead of a can-determine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u431	A legal duty?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u432	Yeah, instead of a can-determine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u433	I am going to ask Mr Slob about this. It seems to me very far-reaching and huge at the level of detail when you require schools to screw one of these things on the wall, where you already pay it and already advise. That seems special to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u434	Can the Minister come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u435	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u436	Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u437	Maybe to take over the stick. The minister asks what it's stuck on. A study carried out a while ago showed that a quarter of the schools, especially the older ones, are not yet in order. When I inform, I hear: the detour of the municipality, you must get the municipality with you. You also hear stories about co-financing. People ask: we are working on new housing and can we not involve it in that? There are all kinds of good reasons why it sometimes gets a little messed up. Then you'd say, if we're working on accelerations in all kinds of ways, from the urgency of Omikron, shouldn't you be going to be rushing the next few weeks to take a step and to remove those obstacles?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u438	I think we should not fall too quickly for the temptation to think that that would be good excuses for not having it in order, to be honest. I think schools have been trying to put their indoor climate in order for a long time. I remember that from my alderman's time. A lot of extra money has been made available for it. Municipalities do a lot of work on that. Schools themselves can also do a lot about this. But that does mean an alertness of a school board to be on top of it. It means good support from municipalities. It also means good support from the Empire. I believe that all these conditions are in place. I'm kind of looking for what you want extra. I hear Mr Paternotte hitting on apparently a legal obligation to have a CO meter in the classroom. I will ask Mr Slob to come back to that. But I don't know if you're on the same course that we should put it in the law at that level of detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u439	I'm making the comparison with the booster the Minister was talking about. This is also a logistical challenge where everything has to be done. From the urgency of that point, I see a minister operating who says, left or right, we're gonna take care of it. At the point of ventilation I see more of a kind of leave: it runs, it could all be in order. But it's partly not in order. Then I'd expect you to have, given the urgency of this point, a blower looking at what it's stuck on. Then we'll see if it's a financial problem or an administrative problem in the relationship with municipalities, so we'll be on top of that to see if we can get an acceleration in that. Within a few weeks, it can just be in order anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u440	I am a little looking for what that should be in concrete terms, on top of all those things that are already being dealt with. You had the debate on this last week with Mr Slob. I was sitting next to it, so that's why I witnessed it. It was a rather impressive list of activities currently being undertaken towards the schools. I'm not against more ventilation. Not at all, I'm just in favour of it. That's why we do all these things. So I'm kind of looking for something more, except for saying that you really want it to work out. That is what we want very much. That's why we do all these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u441	I think Mr Paternotte's appeal is clear. Actually, I agree with him. The air quality in schools was already a problem before the corona crisis, especially in old buildings. In many schools, air quality is still a problem. If it is not yet in order in so many schools, then I think you can ask the cabinet to take another step there, whether it should be with legislation or in another way. Of course, there are a lot of demands we make on education, for example when it comes to the layout of space, how many children may be per square metre, you name it all. There are all kinds of demands we make on schools. Of course, you could also impose stricter requirements on air quality, whether it is regulated by a CO2 meter or otherwise. Of course, you can make the demands much clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u442	Then obviously the analysis is that it is about the lack of clarity of requirements. To be honest, I don't think there's any confusion. I do recognize that schools that sit in old buildings and move towards a new building situation, think: do you have to completely edit your old school right now, if you're going to a new building anyway? The reason you're going to a new building is often that the air quality in the old building isn't very good. Of course, that doesn't help any sort of short-term action either, because the point is that they're in an old building. They need a new building to put the air quality in order. In short, I think the norm is clear. I think the support is generous, even in financial terms. I believe that the willingness of the department of OCW, Mr Slob, municipalities and the school boards themselves is also great. So my search is a little bit stuck on it. But I also hear the questions of Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Staaij. That means I'm just gonna take it back with me to Mr. Slob. I'm gonna see what extra could happen and what extra support we can do to get the ventilation in schools back on track. I agree with you. The cabinet also agrees with you. We need to get this ventilation in order. A lot of schools do. A lot has happened incredibly, but it has not yet happened in a number of schools. Are there any things we could do in addition? I'm just taking homework back. I will ask Mr Slob to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u443	Mr Hijink's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u444	I think that's very good. I also hope this can be done quickly, perhaps even before Christmas. I think we all very much want the schools to be able to open up again on 1 January. A motion by Mr Paternotte and myself was adopted last week. The opening of schools must be at the top of the list of measures to be taken next year. Of course, it is important that this can be done very safely. I would say: do it now with CO2 meters in places where it is necessary and give more advice on ventilation. Make sure it's safe in those schools so they can open up. I'd like to make that call here again. If there is a need for stricter rules in the law to improve air quality, I think we should do so. This isn't something you're gonna solve with a new building, because it takes ten years for a new building to stand. So we have to fix this in the very short term, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u445	Agreed. I'm not gonna promise there's gonna be a reaction at this point before Christmas. Of course, it should not be an obstacle to starting live again in schools after the holiday. It must have something else to do with whether or not it can. Of course we hope so. I will ask Mr Slob to respond to this. I shall come straight back to Mr Paternotte's question about the self-tests. The rule now applies to groups 6, 7 and 8. The advice was: wouldn't you do it from the third grade? We have that advice under consideration right now, because we need to find the fastest way to get that amount of tests. In the contracts we have... It is also about availability in the market at all. The market for self-tests is under a lot of pressure. For groups 3, 4 and 5, this would be about 18 million tests, on top of the 63 million we've already ordered. They are not just organized in a legitimate sense. However, we are considering whether we could make an additional tender for this and whether this could lead to the provision of self-tests for groups 3, 4 and 5. We have that at gunpoint at the moment and we will return to it in the letter of 14 January. One more point about ventilation. That's about the miracle of Staphorst. That was a question from Mrs Pouw-Verweij. We are of course for miracles from Staphorst. We're investigating this. The RIVM is researching this pilot to see if it can actually have the effect they say it has and if it does indeed make such a great contribution. The assumption is it's not a replacement. Even though you have such an air purifier fantastic! You have to keep ventilating and just stick to the ventilation recommendations. However, we are starting to investigate what additional results could be obtained from such an air-cleaning plant. Then I'll come on vacation. The Party for Animals asked why we did not accept the OMT recommendation. That's because we couldn't really see what the epidemiological argument was for that, other than the reasoning that we shouldn't want people to cross the border when we go into lockdown in the Netherlands. We didn't think that was a very strong argument for everyone to cancel all the holidays. It's true that you have to follow the rules, even though you're on vacation. Those rules are important in the Netherlands. The rules they lay down in other countries are, of course, also important in those countries. So don't do things that you know you're taking a risk with right now. But that is not yet an obligation not to cross the border. Apart from that, of course, what the Prime Minister said about shopping in Cologne and Antwerp is simply true. Beautiful cities by the way, great to shop, but don't do it, because we're here in lockdown for a reason. You are not supposed to do the things you are not allowed to do in the Netherlands across the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u446	I'm a little surprised at the Minister's response. The first time we went into a lockdown, there were indeed major travel restrictions. Of course, they also had effects on the epidemic. If that is not fully clear from the OMT's opinion, I can imagine that the cabinet is asking for further information, especially since the OMT recommends not to travel for vacation purposes in the proposal to buy time to get the booster campaign going. Is the cabinet still willing to ask why the OMT advises not to travel for holiday purposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u447	So I did, and I had not been very convinced that it was really an epidemiological necessity. The difference from last year is that we've now been vaccinated. We do know that there is a much lesser effect of the vaccines, that's why we put that booster too, but it doesn't seem necessary to cancel all the holidays now, while you can also say: stick to the measures when you're across the border and make sure you're not part of the spread yourself. That is still a sensible advice. The question is then what would it add if you said you weren't allowed on vacation. Suppose you had rented a cottage in Germany and you would go to Germany in one ride with your own family and then stay in that cottage and take a beautiful forest walk. Is there any reason why you shouldn't do that anymore? No, but it's wise to follow the rules in Germany, too. By the way, if we're in lockdown in the Netherlands and you're not going to shop here, this means that you're not going to do that in Antwerp either, no matter how beautiful that is. Not even in Cologne, no matter how beautiful that city is. You're just not gonna do that. You just stay in the Netherlands in lockdown. When you are on holiday, you go to your vacation home and you behave there in such a way that you are not part of the spread of the virus. That's the advice. That seemed to us to be more proportionate than asking everyone to cancel the holiday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u448	The key question remains, of course. What risks are we running with the omikron variant on the way, if we do not opt for travel restrictions? My next question is actually about another point. The cabinet has now carried out two things. The first is: stay home as much as possible. This applies both at home and abroad. The second is a holiday advice: you can go on holiday. That's pretty confusing. Does the Minister agree with me that this is not a clear advice to people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u449	Stay at home as much as possible, but also in the previous lockdown we said: a one-time trip to your holiday home at the Heihaas holiday park should be possible. You go there and then you stick to the measures that apply at home. At that time, your holiday home is similar to your own home. That doesn't have to add anything to movements. I think that's pretty consistent, if I'm being honest. Mr. Chairman. I guess I'll run out of questions. No, I have two more questions. I have described the use of antiviral medicines in detail in the letter. The short summary is that we actually buy everything that exists and everything that the profession says: you have to want to use. We buy it and they use it the way they like to use it. The inspection shall ensure that this is done. That's the way we do it. Is it the silver bullet? I honestly don't believe that. Pieces of paper often come early. I almost suspect they've been put in by the marketing department of the pharmaceutical in question. They are often very cheerful about the expected results. First of all, we want to see the results as EMA tests them. That's why we have EEA. When EEA gives market authorisation, we say: nice, because then we've already contracted the stuff and we're going to use it. The drugs to be used in the early phase consist of a lot of tablets and large pills, for several days in a row. You should do that to whoever just got an infection. Otherwise, it won't work anymore. It seems rather complicated to me to lead that in a good way, but of course we are going to try to do so. We're gonna try to use that. Maybe there are people who think for that reason: I won't be vaccinated, because I'll take those pills later. Well, then I guess it's an unwise guess. The vaccine with that one shot is better than the whole pot of pills you're gonna have to work in. So please choose that vaccine. That's what we're actually saying to everyone who's waiting for something beautiful that might come next: please choose that vaccine, because that just works very well. By the way, we buy everything that could offer any hope of recovery. I have one more question. It's about FFP2. That is what Mrs Gündoğan has come back to every debate. Fair is fair. Now it is supported by Mr Paternotte. That, of course, increases the threat even more. In all seriousness, we have asked the OMT a number of times whether there is any reason to tighten up the directives on personal protective equipment. You're saying, yes, I've actually thought that for a while. I said that in the previous debate, and I still think that: let us leave it to experts, please. I am at least not saying whether it is necessary to tighten up directives. In its last opinion, i.e. last Saturday's opinion, the OMT stated that in one of the following opinions it reflected possible tightening-up and possible application of FFP2. That's because of the omikron variant. If it is possibly more contagious, or possibly involves an increased aerogenic spread, then it could be logical to use a different type of protective equipment. I just want to follow the professionals in that. They formed a working group with the FMS, the Federation of Medical Specialists. They'll come back to that in counseling. Until then, I would like to say that there is no limit in availability or financial. This is because everything can be declared by means of the additional cost regulation. If one can't get the funds on the market themselves, they are very well available on the market. They can always report this to the LCH. We'll see if we can help through the LCH. Even so, I find among individual care providers who feel safer with such a FFP2 mask that this is part of the conversation between employer and employee. By the way, that mask is not very nice to breathe, so it is not necessarily desirable. If you do not come out in that context and you feel unsafe, then of course we still have the ISZW. You said last time that you had some examples. I said at the time: reach out to us these examples, because then we are going to look at what is going on there and why the FFP2 mask is not available if someone wants it very much. Whether it should be for everyone is part of the guidelines. That's what the OMT advises on. One of the following opinions refers back to this. I assume that will not be in the very long term, because we now have that virus on Dutch soil. Of course, it's nice if that happens in the short term. I don't know when that's gonna come to a conclusion. A working group has been formed, at least from the FMS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u450	Mrs. Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u451	I thought I was at the end of my reply, but that was not included in Mrs Van den Berg's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u452	I heard the Minister say that he was at the end of the folder of varia and I thought my question would be stuck in that. I had asked a question about the medical contact professions that may be exercised. I do not ask that question because I do not know it, because it is clear in the legislation that the Minister has introduced it: professions under the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act care. In the spring we had a whole discussion about chiropractors and osteopaths, together with Mrs Bergkamp. So for the people of the country, perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to explain what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u453	For the people at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u454	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u455	Well, I know they're all listening, especially when it comes to chiropractors. In order not to repeat that discussion in the spring, I thought: just all medical contact professions. So not only the medical contact professions financed by basic insurance, but all medical contact professions. So you can go to the chiropractor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u456	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the VWS Minister very much. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for five minutes. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u457	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u458	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Where the measures which the cabinet had to announce last Saturday were, of course, very bad for the whole of the Netherlands, that is certainly true for entrepreneurs. I recognize the examples mentioned here by the Members of Parliament from their own contacts. Of course I have also seen the images and read the articles about the people in the catering and retail trade and the hairdressers, who had to close last year about this period against their will. They had come through that difficult time with good courage and much creativity, just like we hope it was a one-time thing, and suddenly they had to hear that the store, the business, had to close again. Really, really hard-hitting. That is why the cabinet has announced today that we are going to expand the support packages, which had already been set up for the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of next year, in a number of areas. This also means that they know the broadest criteria we have had so far. I always realise that this does not mean that we can remove all the suffering of entrepreneurs, not in the financial sense, but certainly not in the emotional sense. No one wants to live off state aid. The people want to undertake, have a nice company and want to be able to practice their beautiful profession. But at the same time, when such radical measures are being taken, it is inevitable that we will also broaden the parameters for aid. We have announced that in the Arrangement Fixed Charges the turnover threshold, which has always stood at 30% to date, is going down to 20%. In this way we also hope to give access to clothing shops, for example, to those entrepreneurs who often have an important turnover in the last two weeks of the year. By the way, we have said right away that ordering and picking up in stores is possible from the start. That is, of course, a lesson we learned from the last time. Shopping by appointment, Mr van der Staaij specifically asked for this, is a space that was used only later in previous measures, because it leads to more movement. Especially in larger shops, especially in a often busy time such as the Christmas days, this means that you get much more movement in the shopping streets and in the larger shops themselves. Hence the room for ordering and picking up. In addition, the NOW scheme, the employers' wage support scheme, has been extended by increasing the turnover threshold from 80% to 90%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u459	I think Mr Van der Staaij would like to wait until you finish your speech. No, you want to go into the previous point, Mr. Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u460	I just wanted to come back to shopping by appointment. The Minister briefly commented on that. He said that, if you made that possible by now, that would lead to a lot more movements. But doesn't that depend on what limit you put on it? Now it looks like anything or nothing could happen when people visit a store. Isn't there room to see if you could give people that choice by letting them see what they want to buy in the shop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u461	I wouldn't want to do that right now. It's really harder to enforce than ordering and picking up, because you have to decide for larger stores how many people can go in by appointment. A big department store will say it's not one at a time, but so much per square meter. We have also discussed this measure in the past. That makes it very complex in the execution. In all the nasty measures we take, we must also consider whether we can maintain and implement them. A lesson from the past is that if you gradually move towards an opening, you can use such a measure. It's not like I'm saying it's never possible. But at the moment when we really, unfortunately forced, have to intervene firmly, I think it is inevitable that we should limit it to ordering and picking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u462	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u463	Yeah, finally. I regret that this is not possible, because it could give the people who want to make use of it and the entrepreneurs themselves some air. Do I understand from the Minister that he's making preparations to make that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u464	It's in the toolbox, just like it's been in the past. I know exactly what you're saying, namely that that wish is alive. I fear that it is almost a routine for my colleagues and I to have direct contact with industry representatives, including the retail sector, when we announce measures, which, of course, also clearly fulfil that wish. I also always try to speak directly to entrepreneurs on work visits. So I know perfectly well that that wish is alive. But also in those conversations I say that we do not want to offer that space yet, but we do want to order and pick it up. That's a lesson from last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u465	It is a good thing that the aid is being extended and even slightly extended. Of course, the best support is not measures. However, if the cabinet chooses to do damage, then there must also be some support for it. But there's something disturbing in the text. I'm really annoyed by that. It says: aid distorts economic dynamism, which causes damage in the longer term. It can't get weirder, can it? The government is imposing measures. These measures are disrupting the economy. You'll just be a barber, gym holder, florist or catering entrepreneur and read this. First you have to close and then it says that the aid distorts economic dynamics. It can't be, can it? That is why I would like to ask whether this report has been produced again, which states what is actually disrupting and what is really the revenue and the costs. Last time, the Ministry of EZK had made a report. It resulted in 100,000 years of life, and it took 620,000 years of life. Has another report been produced to see what is really disrupting economic dynamics and medical dynamics?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u466	Both things Mr Van Haga says are true. Yes, the hairdresser and the gym holder, whom he mentions as examples, have been hit hard. I also indicated that I am well aware of this and that I hear it directly. At the same time, economic advisors asked Mr Van Haga if there were any reports, but of course he knew them as the Centraal Planbureau and De Nederlandsche Bank pointed out that in addition to the suffering of the individual entrepreneur and his or her employees, there is also the fact that, for example, the number of bankruptcies in the Netherlands has never been as low as during those aid packages. This indicates that a form of dynamic that is normally present in the economy is less than usual. At the same time, we can see that there is a huge demand for workers in companies that are not or are not affected by the corona crisis, even in the streets. You see in many places the signs "colleagues wanted." In addition, we have extensive support schemes. That's why these economic advisors keep warning you that you're not gonna go through with your arrangements and you're gonna get rid of all that economic dynamism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u467	Do I have another interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u468	Yeah, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u469	Okay, good. That is, of course, entirely true. I think the number of "staff wanted" signs in the catering industry will soon disappear, but that aside. I have one last question, if you don't mind, from the florist business. They also look at all these measures. There's so much unlogic and so much absurdity in it that they don't understand it anymore either. One question. Christmas trees can only be sold outside. So a florist has to put out his Christmas trees, when he sells them, but displays are prohibited at the same time: sober take-out, no display. What can I tell the florists?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u470	Of course, that really depends on the location. My own local florist always has, at least this week always, a few Christmas trees next door, between, I think, the amaryllis and the hellborus at this time of the year. Yeah, it's gonna stay that way. When I come to pick it up on order, I do not get any further than the front door where I used to go into the beautiful business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u471	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u472	Mr Hijink asked: can't you pay entrepreneurs 100%? Can you take away all the financial suffering? I indicated in my introduction that that is not entirely possible. I've already indicated that this Meeting Fixed Charges is wider than ever. The rate of reimbursement is 100%, but based on calculation rules. I'm not making the illusion that you can take 100% away. There too, you run into implementation issues and yet macroeconomic questions. Both the NOW scheme and the TVL scheme, which are actually the largest schemes in the package, are based on turnover figures. Thanks to economic dynamism, even in a normal year, even in a good economic year, there are always companies that have to deal with a 10%, 20% reduction in turnover. So the fact that you have such a turnover threshold also means that you offer support to companies that are not affected by corona but are affected by turnover reductions for other reasons. That means you can never work without these kinds of sales limits. Again, we really do our best to prevent as much of the damage as possible, but you will never be 100% successful. Then I come to an important issue that was actually mentioned by all Members of Parliament, namely the question of tailor-made arrangements. Mrs Den Haan and others said: at the last lockdown, a year ago, there were specific arrangements for the catering industry, the fridge fee, and for the retail trade, which had taken up additional stocks just before Christmas, the stock compensation. That was actually a form of customization that existed a year ago. There is the fair message that it did not go well in its implementation. The very fact that there were specific fees aimed at the type of company was then tried to work with industry codes for the catering and retail sector. This has led to a very high number of appeal and objection procedures. The total number of applications under the TVL is about 350,000. This, of course, indicates the size of the distressed entrepreneurial country, but it also indicates that you need to automate to be able to pay it out at all and certainly to be able to pay it out quickly, because people cannot wait endlessly for their money. More than 16,000 objection proceedings were received on that number. Those objection procedures all relate to figures submitted. A well-known example is the question of a bowling alley that naturally has a restaurant. It didn't have the hospitality industry code, but it says: yes, but I have similar damage. There are also court rulings on this, which require that this be corrected. As a result, the implementing organisations RVO and UWV have rightly asked many of you to take on an ever-increasing number of lawyers to deal with appeal and objection procedures. By the way, of course, the organisations themselves have grown considerably over the past year. These are also typical examples where you and I get the signals that it takes a long time. 96% of payments are made within the deadline, but 4% of 350 000 applications are still 14 000 applications. So, yes, there are a lot of them. That's very much in this area. The explicit request of our executives UWV and RVO is therefore: make sure that it remains possible for us to make these payments quickly and carefully at the same time. That just doesn't relate to this approach. That's what we really learned, because it's been tried. That is why we have now chosen to broaden the overall parameters. Think of the 100% compensation and the turnover threshold in the TVL, which is at a lower level than it has ever stood. Then there is another subject specifically addressed by Mrs De Vries, Mrs Agema and Mrs Van den Berg: the entrepreneurs who are dealing with specific situations, poignant cases. This issue has naturally also been raised in previous debates on the support package. Mr Amhaouch once took the initiative with a motion for a committee on poignant cases at RVO. He's working and he's doing a good job there. She has also been able to find a solution in more than 450 cases. Also, for the period when the reference quarter, the quarter where turnover is compared to, for example, conversion was not appropriate, we have offered the possibility to choose another quarter. That was also due to the previous signals from the Chamber. Mr Aartsen also tabled a motion on this at the time. So, although we have such a committee that has been poignant and allowed us to choose another quarter, a lot of you have pointed out that there have been poignant cases. I recognize those signals, too. During the previous debate on this subject, on 8 December, the Chamber also adopted a motion by Mr Aartsen which dealt specifically with start-ups. In the past, we have made arrangements for them, but not for the longer period thereafter. I would like to look carefully with the implementing organisations at what we can do in addition to the arrangements we now have. I dealt with the distressing scheme, which works very well in the case of particularly serious cases of disease. I indicated earlier that we would add pregnancy to that. That's where it works now. I would like to take a very serious look with the implementation organisations to see if we can deal with poignant cases in a way that works. Because I also need to keep in mind the experience with the customization we have now. Moreover, I have read with great interest the report of the Bosman Committee on Implementation Organisations. It also clearly indicates that you need to look carefully at the implementation at such a step. So, together with the implementation organisations, I am going to seriously consider whether we can deal with poignant cases in a workable way further than we are doing now. Mrs Westerveld specifically asked about the scheme for flex workers andzzp'ers. For this purpose, too, there has been an attempt in the past to make arrangements for them, a temporary bridging arrangement for Flexible Labour. Previously, it was shared with the Chamber in which performance dilemmas you join. A second particular aspect that naturally plays a part in this is the part that was just being discussed. That is the combination of people who are out of work, including indeedzzp'ers and flex workers, and at the same time all those signs with 'colleagues wanted'. Often that is also temporary, up to the GGD that came up very logically today and is now looking for people for the phone. I also know people around me, and you probably also, who say that the profession I actually want to do doesn't work for a while, but I'd like to help people make an appointment for a few nights or afternoons. Of course, you want to keep it that way, because that's the best use for everyone. Part of the package is that that part of the municipal schemes, the self-employed assistance, is more tailored to this particular situation. This has been made easier to reach more self-employed people. For example, for the period of the measures, i.e. until 1 April, the power test which normally applies does not apply to this scheme. So we also want to do an extra hand-off for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u473	There is an interruption by Mrs Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u474	I think it's my last interruption. Thank you for at least looking at poignant cases and also at start-ups. I mentioned the example of the catering entrepreneurs in Leeuwarden. I was wondering, when can the Minister make some feedback on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u475	Following the Archangel motion on start-ups, I indicated that I would like to do so in January. I want to take this with me now, again in close consultation with RVO and UWV. "I" is probably in a state-of-the-art sense here, because then the Prime Minister probably found someone in my place. But, yeah, he's gotta do my job anyway. That's part of the terms of employment. Mrs Teunissen and Mrs Den Haan asked: do these measures not lead to the need for a solidarity levy? We have had this debate before. In September, the Minister of Finance sent a letter in which he indicated what you ran into and why the cabinet, weighing everything, did not choose this. You run into the fact that charges with retroactive effect in a rule of law are not really very good at defending them. In the end, you're actually implementing an increase in the tax on profits. A number of measures, partly to finance motions adopted by the General Reviews, already increase the tax on profits. In line with the letter of that time, therefore, the cabinet still believes that no additional taxes should be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u476	The Minister is right to say that this has been discussed before. Following an approved motion by Mr Amhaouch, the cabinet issued a letter. It is quite clear that this poses a wide range of problems with retroactive effect and that very specific measures also pose problems. But my question is as follows. We're in a new lockdown now. We can also choose to introduce this measure now and not with retroactive effect. I am thinking of a more generic tax on profits. You've got support on the one hand. If a government takes such drastic measures, you can indeed choose to do so. But you can also opt for a redistribution of resources, if otherwise it leads to greater inequality between entrepreneurs. That is the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u477	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u478	My question is: does the Minister see possibilities for a more generic tax? I am referring to the tax on profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u479	Technically, that's possible, but I find that very undesirable. The letter also goes into that. It points out that corporate tax for larger companies... There is, of course, a differentiation between small companies, which pay a low rate, and large companies, which pay a high rate. Larger companies are also most sensitive to the question of which country they make their investments in. The Dutch corporate tax rate is now among the higher. It's a political choice whether you want to increase that further or not. You're asking me as Minister of Economic Affairs. I don't want that. That is also the choice of the cabinet, which can be read in the letter to which I refer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u480	But in the light of the corona crisis and the lockdown, why not ask the minister? We could also choose to introduce a temporary solidarity levy, a temporary increase in the tax on profits, and to release it once the lockdown measures are over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u481	Part of my job, which I am happy to do, is to talk to foreign companies who are considering settling in the Netherlands. Those are all kinds of companies, but you have to give it to me that I like it best when they are companies that are very innovative, for example in the field of energy transition. Like other companies, they speak not only to me, but also to the Ministers for Economic Affairs of other countries. They have a financial department that makes lists. How much is corporate tax? How's the infrastructure? How's the firing right? What is the quality of justice? I certainly want that type of company to say in the end: that new factory and that new R&D centre will be in the Netherlands. And that's what corporate tax is all about. Mr. Chairman. Then I have the special honour to answer the question about veterinarians, specifically pet veterinarians, and the crucial professions. That is Mrs van der Plas' question. By the way, it's because I'm the only one of my colleagues who goes to the vet with a dog. That is urgent, for example because he chewed a stick and swallowed half of it. Since this is urgent, from the start of the corona crisis, we have included veterinarians, including pets, in the category of emergency care. Then, to conclude my speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u482	I would like to look at Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u483	I must be a little careful with the interruptions, because I have another question for the Minister. But it's not so much about the foregoing. That profession is covered by the service that remains open. People can go there with their dog. However, it is important that veterinarians are actually part of food production, because the veterinarian with the primary focus of the pet animal is also competent to serve as a veterinarian. It sometimes happens that a veterinarian with pets as a focus is also a veterinarian on a farm. That profession would therefore be one of the crucial professions. That's not what it's supposed to be right now. Because it's not a crucial profession, they can't take their kids to the bso either. As a result, there may be a shortage of veterinarians in veterinary practice, thereby jeopardising the care of animals. The Animal Law, article 1.3, states that all animals are entitled to care. So that could be compromised. That is why it is so strange that they may be open, but they are not a crucial profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u484	It is specifically about access to the bso. I'll check that out and I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u485	Can I ask you another question right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u486	Sure. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u487	I'm standing right here. There's something crazy going on. On 18 December, it was decided that the host parents' shelter remained open, but parents were given urgent advice not to take the children to the host parents' shelter. That advice did not apply to the parents with crucial professions. That measure changed on 20 December. Now the host care is completely open, for children from 0 to 12 years old. There is no longer any restriction on non-crucial professions. Why am I asking this minister? They are no longer eligible for compensation. I wanted to ask if it's true the way I told it, and why did it happen like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u488	I'll have to check it out. I think it's honorable that you should be asked me. Indeed, I am now also representing the colleagues in the Finance and Social Affairs Committee. I'm gonna have to have a little talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u489	This will come in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u490	Yes. So there are two things I will return to in the second term. Finally, the way forward. The Chamber therefore asked, but I hear the same from entrepreneurs and from the whole of society. Then it's not just the medical outlook ahead. How can we get the pandemic under control? It is not just a question of how we deal with this economically. That will be an important part of the already promised letter at the beginning of next year. In the preparation of this letter, Mrs van den Berg asked for it, we will involve the social partners closely, even now in order to avoid misunderstandings. Every time we consider or announce a measure, that consultation takes place. We have also agreed with them that they will be explicitly involved, because you will indeed have a number of essential questions. Mrs Kuik mentioned an example of this. Are you going to a society where a number of occupations that haven't had a seasonal pattern to date are going to get that? We can't predict that entirely, but how can you prepare for that? One part of this, which Mrs Kuik specifically asked for, is, in general, retrained at this stage. That is why we have already announced earlier that the instruments we have for this in municipalities and UWV for guidance to other work, but also where necessary the reimbursement of training, have been extended and that, as it is so beautifully called, the STAP budget has been extended from next spring for this reason. Mr. Chairman. With this I hope to have answered the questions put to me, except for the two which I shall come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u491	I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I'm gonna see if we can get straight to the second term. That's the case. Then we'll suspend dinner on the side of the Chamber after the second term. I'm sure I'll announce that dinner break is 45 minutes. I call Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer by the directors. First of all, the issue of the harrowing cases. It's nice that there's attention to that, but more attention has been paid to it. However, we want to give encouragement to speed up and give it real priority and to solve the problem now. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still entrepreneurs on board when applying for the aid packages;]] [[Whereas it is becoming increasingly difficult for entrepreneurs to maintain, especially if they are not eligible for aid;]] [[points out that it is undesirable for entrepreneurs not to receive aid because they have not been able to make a reference turnover or insufficient due to conversion, acquisition, illness or start-up;]] [[calls on the government, together with the implementing organisations, to consider how more distressing cases can be helped as quickly as possible within the TVL and NOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Aartsen, Mr Chicken, Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Grinwis, Mr Westerveld, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1674]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u493	That was the motion. I'd like to join in on this. If there were some space, it would be nice if shopping by appointment could be arranged at the retail trade. I understand it's not possible right now, but if there's a little more room, we think that would be good. I have one more question for the VWS Minister on the number of booster supplies. I got the impression that in the second quarter it will not be enough to start boostering everyone. Maybe in a letter the Minister can come back to exactly how it is, how many people we can booster and whether we have enough vaccines for that. I hope that everyone will be in the starting blocks at the G.D.D. should it be necessary to start putting those shots.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u494	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u495	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Omikron will soon be the dominant variant of the coronavirus and that there is a chance that this variant may be more contagious but may be less ill;]] [[Whereas a less sickening variant may result in the greatest burden on the care being placed mainly outside the ic-care system, e.g. in regular nursing departments;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with other hospitals and the Defence Department, to expand on this scenario, for example by preparing emergency hospitals and/or other locations with concentration of corona care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1675]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u496	This is about preparing for the scenario "emergency hospitals" as we had previously prepared with Ahoy, but fortunately did not need it. Mr. Chairman. It's very good that there's going to be an investigation into the quarter of an hour that goes off. I would like to add two more things. First of all, the time limit of the booster after going through a corona infection. The CDC in America indicates that vaccination gives a better result than an infection. We've definitely got those signals on Omikron by now. In Belgium you can get a booster 14 days after the cure. In England that is 28 days and in the Netherlands that is three months. Can't we cut that time limit short? Can that be taken? The same goes for giving the flu shot at the same time as the booster shot. We often put a week or two in between. That too is something they have been doing for a long time at the same time in America, England and France, actually without problems. Can we do this at the same time in the Netherlands? That could make things a lot easier next fall. The Robert Koch Institute has said today that it will use the FFP2 masks more widely. Of course, we have the best scientists, but isn't that something to look at? Finally, a question to Minister Blok, because we have not yet heard anything about the performing arts. On 14 December they were in the support package, but then they had the afternoon performances and now they are out. Does the support package also breathe for the performing arts in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u497	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u498	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses the view that a parliamentary working group should be set up to propose co-existence with corona,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to allow all shops to be open until 10 p.m. in view of Christmas shopping, so that customers can be spread out over the day and to inform each other not to breathe, wear a mouth cap and ventilate properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that with a hardness clause the premium affair had not gotten so out of hand;]] [[calls on the government to introduce a hardness clause for operators who are re-closed by the government and can dispose of their stocks, but are ultimately not adequately compensated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil and that meeting outside is better than indoors;]] [[calls on the Government to lift all restrictions in the outdoors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to increase its ic capacity structurally to a minimum of the average in other European countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1676]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1677]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1678]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1679]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1680]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answers. I hope that the Minister will be able to give extra attention to those 70-plussers who have not yet received a letter. We will say 'there are other ways too', but it is nice if there is attention to that. It is good that the Minister for Economic Affairs is going to look into implementation for the poignant cases. Mr. Chairman. We had already indicated in the input that we do find it special that on the one hand we call on people to behave in a healthy way and on the other hand the bookshops and sports facilities are closed, but the coffee shops and the liquor stores are open. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the development of a long-term policy on corona is one of the objectives of the Cabinet and Chamber;]] [[noting that our inhabitants, divided over all ages, have shown less movement;]] [[noting that the effects of sports and movement directly contribute to six key core values, namely: physical value, emotional value, social value, personal value, intellectual value and financial value;]] [[Whereas future policies should also include the prevention of illness and healthier involvement;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine the conditions under which sport and movement can be added to the list of key sectors as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van den Berg, Inge van Dijk, Rudmer Heerema and Van der Laan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1681]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I spoke earlier about the protection of our caregivers. We are still hearing a lot of noise from the concern that there is a need to work with mouth masks where caregivers do not feel safe enough. They obviously want to protect themselves because they do not want to make their own clients and patients sick. That is why, together with Mr Van der Staaij, I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still many caregivers in direct contact with clients and patients without receiving FFP2-mouth masks;]] [[Whereas the emergence of the highly contagious Omikron variant increases the risk for these caregivers to accumulate corona;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all healthcare providers who have direct customer or patient contact are provided with FFP2-mouth nose masks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1682]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u501	If I've got it right, there's been a message from the Federation of Medical Specialists. It actually says: it is not necessary for now, we are going to investigate whether omikron produces more aerogenic transmission. I assume that we want to use the precautionary principle here and that these things should simply be available to anyone who wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u502	The final observation, for anyone who wants it, is quite important to me. I've seen NOW'91 that says I want it this year, but I haven't heard FMS and KNMG say that signal yet. We think that's pretty important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u503	Sure, but they're actually saying that you need to do additional research if it's really necessary. We say, "Make sure that any caregiver who wants to use them can use them." We have always had difficulty in making them compulsory for everyone, because in certain settings, for example, when you work with demented elderly or young children, it may not be smart at all to use mouth caps. That's gotta be customization. That's important. But we believe that they should be available to all those who want to use them for their own safety and for the safety of clients and patients, even if the employer is making it difficult. Every healthcare provider must have access to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u504	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u505	Mr. Chairman. I was just thinking what would be the aftertaste of today's debate. I don't think the shops at Schiphol are open anymore. That is not cynical, but it also shows that I feel that I am not only calling on the cabinet to work on the long term, but that it is also a good thing that we, as a Chamber after the recess, are going to see how we can achieve a more effective debate structure. At least I have that wish myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u506	It is very good that we will also be discussing our working methods from the VWS committee in the newly formed Chambers. But when it comes to the aftertaste of this debate, isn't this also the debate to see if the measures we have been sent receive the support of the House of Representatives or not? That is the value of this debate, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u507	That's right. At the same time, I see that we are now in a very big crisis, for the second time in two years in a hard lockdown. Many entrepreneurs are in pockets and ashes. This also applies to many young people. I do not know whether the debate we have had fully reflects the emotions that exist in society. Politics is also about emotions and giving a reflection on where we come from and where we stand. I know a little bit about how the outside world experiences this. My concern is that that will be the aftertaste of the debate. Of course, a long debate has rightly been held on why the booster campaign is so slow and whether we should not have learned lessons from abroad. I also do not agree that we should be satisfied with this. Of course, it is a good thing that we are talking about the support measures, because there were flaws in them too. I supported Mr Van Aartsen's motion for a resolution and called on him to do so. Of course we have to talk about care again, but at the same time we haven't arranged anything about it today. I see someone swinging very violently. I do not know why, because I am also in my own speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u508	Who's waving at you, if I may ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u509	Someone's trying to fool me. Anyway, it doesn't matter. I'll come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u510	You're talking about your own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u511	Yeah, fine. I'll come to a conclusion. In any case, that means that I would be pleased if we, as a Chamber, bothered to do so. Our President has also called on us to look after the recess at how we can achieve a more effective debate structure, so that we do not get tired of each other, as is the case with my word, but we take this seriously with each other. I am critical of how we got to this moment, but I am also very concerned about how we are going to move forward in the long term. January's still a long way away. If it becomes February or March, if we get longer into this situation, then the long-term perspective becomes very difficult for society. So I'd like to look forward to those plans. I'm filing a motion with Mrs Westerveld. I don't have any more motions or questions at the moment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u512	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also felt a little uncomfortable in the debate when it was again about the ventilation of schools and whether this was enough. The same applies, for example, to protective equipment for people working in the care sector. This also applies to the question of whether we have sufficient testing sites and why we are always lacking a clear strategy. That is because we know that all of these things are just desperately needed in this pandemic that has been affecting our country and many other countries for so long. We just know that we should have arranged ventilation, sufficient protective equipment and all those things around it by now. In fact, it should not be necessary to ask further questions about this after a debate in the Chamber and to get answers. Mr. Chairman. Together with Mrs Kuik, I have a motion on the long-term strategy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the decision-making process in the corona crisis has been virtually unchanged for 22 months;]] [[whereas the corona pandemic has enormous social consequences and the corona virus is likely to remain among us for a longer period of time;]] [[considers that the decision-making process is not working enough and that it is time for a new democratic approach with a long-term strategy and a broader perspective on society as a whole;]] [[calls on the government to review the advisory and decision-making structures surrounding the fight against the corona virus and in the new process:]] [[appoint a regiment for corona and society;]] [[to involve the Chamber earlier and better in the decision-making process;]] [[monitoring bodies, such as the OMT, with more scope for other disciplines, such as behavioural science, communication, well-being and youth;]] [[calls on the Government to share the long-term strategy with the Chamber by the end of January,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1683]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u514	I'm having trouble with the separate ruler who should be talking about corona. On the one hand you say: corona is going to stay, so we have many years to deal with that. I would expect all the ministers of the next government to take this into account in everything they do, whether it be housing, agriculture or VWS. What will happen if we have a separate ruler? Then it becomes the point of contact at about the entire cabinet policy, without having any influence or power to do anything. That's kind of the fear I have. That's why I wouldn't be very happy about it. The whole proposal sounds very sympathetic, so I don't want to get rid of it right away either, but that is, of course, a bit of the risk you're running.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u515	I understand Mr Hijink's hesitation. In her term, I think Mrs Kuik explained why it might also be important to have a separate ruler for corona. That is of course also because Corona will remain among us in the coming years and because in the coming years we must take into account everything we do with corona and how corona holds society in its grip. Of course, this is not meant to become a person who then has no power at all or who cannot do anything at all. On the contrary, I would like to say. Of course, it has to be someone who is in contact with all the other ministries, so that policy can be properly coordinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u516	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u517	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for the hand-out, the move to close non-essential shops at Schiphol Airport during the lockdown. I've been told the shops are closing tomorrow. This is important from a security and solidarity point of view. Thank you for that. I found the answer to the question why the OMT's travel advice was not taken over less convincing. We didn't set up travel restrictions for nothing last time. My question remains: what makes the situation different, that the cabinet decides differently and not just follow the advice of the OMT? Is this not the precautionary principle with Omikron and all the uncertainties surrounding it? I would also like to join in the compelling call of many parties for the rapid development of a long-term strategy. Mr. Chairman. I'll conclude with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the corona measures have already severely affectedzzp'ers and SME entrepreneurs who are largely dependent on a physical shop and are now once again confronted with a hard lockdown;]] [[Whereas large companies which have benefited greatly from the corona measures are once again benefiting from the lockdown;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward very soon with a proposal for a form of solidarity tax for large companies which have benefited from the corona crisis and which benefitzzp'ers and SMEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Teunissen and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1684]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u518	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. In this debate, I think it has been a lot about the long-term and the government's plan to work towards a strategy over the next few weeks, through which we, as a society, will get through it, no matter how the scenarios develop. I welcome the fact that this debate has taken place. In that respect, my aftertaste is a different one from that of my colleague, Keiken. I welcome the commitment that the cabinet will see how this can take place at local and regional level. I also look forward to conducting the debate in this way. So not: this is the tool, and that is where the crisis has to go, but: we have a crisis, how do we, as a society, get through it together? In this way, we will also ensure that entrepreneurs who are currently in a very difficult position can open up the shops again and that we can shop there safely again. In this sense, my colleague Mr Grinwis has warmly signed the motion tabled by Mr De Vries, so that, in distressing cases, there is room for entrepreneurs to support them. I agree with the questions raised about the FFP2 masks, in particular Mr Paternotte's question on the German opinion. I have two very brief questions. One is about the flu-prick-plus group. They have already had a corona vaccination at the beginning of the period of vaccination and must now wait for a text message. They find that exciting, I notice from a lot of messages. I would ask the Minister to keep in touch with the patient organisations to hear how that goes. My second question is whether the Minister can, in the interim, reverse the way in which he is going to solve this if things are not going well, because this is about very vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u519	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u520	Thank you. A very short but important motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sports are healthy;]] [[noting that good health can make people resistant to corona;]] [[calls on the government to include gyms and all other sports associations and facilities in essential sectors so that they can be reopened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jansen, Mr Van Haga, Mr Smolders and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1685]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u521	I understand the call. We have already had a discussion on whether or not sport is essential. Now the motion ends with the phrase "so they can open again." Education is also essential, and that is also closed in the coming weeks. Perhaps the motion can be modified somehow. The link now being made between key sectors that are not closed and non-essential sectors that are closed is not there at the forthcoming lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u522	The request is therefore to change "so that."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u523	Or then write "Keep it open."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u524	That can also be agreed bilaterally. Then we'll just change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u525	This reminds me of another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u526	This seems like a bit of a repeat of moves. I have exactly the same motion. If both the former Olympic hockey player, Mr Smolders, and I can stand under the motion, I do not have to table my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u527	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u528	Well, well, well. Thank you, Mr. Jansen. Your motion makes a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u529	Yeah, it's loosening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u530	In the context of the Christmas spirit and all the positive feelings we have about it, I am actually rather surprised that Forum is submitting this motion. I've seen all kinds of great calls about all kinds of things that would be wrong in the country and that wouldn't go well in the corona crisis, and that it's all bullshit. Does this motion mean that the rest of the policy has been accepted, and that Forum says: that is very much needed, given the seriousness of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u531	No, definitely not. This is one of the most illogical things in the whole policy. Of course, we must stop all measures. If they are there, I hope to find support in the rest of the Chamber for at least doing so. The rest of you don't want to, but I think it makes sense that we're gonna do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u532	During the previous debate on this subject and the debate before that, I also discussed it. I would suggest that the name Kuzu should also be included here. I don't think that's gonna make much difference, because I know how the cabinet is in here, but we're gonna see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u533	Well, look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u534	I welcome all this support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u535	Fine. Thank you, Mr. Jansen. I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to have a different debate in the Chamber, with more nuance. Several colleagues have said this in different ways. It is very often not black and white for Volt and no matter what choice we will make. We want to talk about that. We often see intermediate solutions. Sometimes they don't seem possible. For example, I see much more benefit in using the general practitioner to increase the vaccination rate, rather than immediately exploring whether we should go to vaccination. I hate that because I think it's gonna make bad blood. Having said that, I would also like to see the precautionary principle more often. Instead of having it boarded up, we can assume that others too can know well. I'm going to read the motions quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that compliance with the basic measures is essential for the containment of the coronavirus, in particular in view of the rapid advance of the omicron variant, including the wearing of a mouth nose mask;]] [[noting that RIVM writes that non-medical mouth masks "but limit [help] in preventing infection of others";]] [[Whereas countries such as Austria, Germany and the Czech Republic require medical FFP2 mouth masks;]] [[Whereas the WHO also recommends wearing FFP2 mouth masks;]] [[Whereas research carried out by the German Max Planck Institute shows that FFP2 mouth masks, if properly worn, significantly reduce the risk of infection, in particular compared to non-medical (substance) mouth masks;]] [[Calls on the Government to strongly promote the use of FFP2 mouth masks in society, including by making available large-scale available masks, including free information to healthcare professionals and citizens on the effectiveness of FFP2 mouth masks in relation to non-medical mouth masks;]] [[invites the Court to inform as soon as possible about the implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Kuik, Mr Westerveld and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1686]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u537	I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u538	Yeah, spacious. There's gonna be more debates, I'm just saying. I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u539	Thank you. In our society, miracles must be proven. That's why RIVM is investigating the miracle of Staphorst. The pilot provides valuable insights, which can contribute to keeping schools open. The Minister warns that air treatment is not a substitute for ventilation. That is not the case here either, because the schools in question are well maintained and well ventilated. What is further needed for a thorough pilot is a consistent and continuous line in the measurements. That requires a short break, without lockdown that disrupts the effect. For the Ministry there is an excellent opportunity to actively take on a stimulating role. Support may be needed to allow all schools in the cluster to participate. My group is tabling a motion for this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that closing schools is an emergency grip and that unorthodox measures are needed to ensure that they can open quickly and responsibly;]] [[noting that a cluster of schools in the municipality of Staphorst has installed air cleaners that filter aerosols from the air;]] [[Whereas this method of air treatment promises hopeful results and that the effect is scientifically monitored;]] [[calls on the government to give these schools the green light to continue the pilot immediately after Christmas holidays,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1687]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u540	Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I'd like to make two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the closing of shops is once again causing serious problems for entrepreneurs;]] [[considers that proportionate refinement of the rules can offer an entrepreneurial perspective;]] [[calls on the Government to enable non-essential retail shopping by appointment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is essential to improve ventilation in school buildings in the short term;]] [[noting that part of the budget earmarked for this purpose is unused;]] [[noting that compulsory co-financing and the fact that municipalities are responsible for this are hampering an early improvement in the situation in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures as soon as possible to encourage the improvement of ventilation in schools on a national basis and to consider whether the compulsory co-financing could lapse for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1688]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1689]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u541	Thank you, Mr President. I will not table any motions for a change today. However, I must have said that I welcome the debate in the Chamber on the long-term vision, the long-term strategy and the long-term perspective. I would also like to remind the House that a motion on this matter was tabled earlier, on 13 January 2021, inviting the government to develop a long-term strategy and a long-term perspective, as Corona will remain among us longer. I would also like to remind you of the voting ratio at the time: the VVD was against, D66 was against, the CDA was against and the Christian Union was against. All other political parties were in favour. However, I am pleased that the long-term strategy is going to be implemented today and that a number of motions are likely to be adopted. Then I have to say that my group is not happy with the current lockdown. That became clear from my contribution. Today, during the reply, I also noted that this cabinet is committed to carrying out the 2G and 3G legislative proposals at work and in education in the new year. We will then see that it will be used as an argument to then open society in a controlled manner. My group would not be in favour of that either. We'll see it in the new year. But that debate will follow in 2022. For now I want to wish everyone who celebrates Christmas Merry Christmas and a good and healthy, and especially happy 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u542	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for answering the questions. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a huge catch-up of overdue care;]] [[Whereas the scaling-down of (critical) planned care causes major health damage and significantly reduces the quality of life for people;]] [[Whereas this also entails major economic damage;]] [[noting that the existing recovery plan is catching up with the omikron variant;]] [[noting the need to understand the impact of omikron on catching up;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the scaled-up care involved, the nature and severity of the diseases, the specific concern involved and a plan of action with a timeline regarding the catch-up of this scaled-up care, taking into account omikron,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1690]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u544	Much has already been said about the long-term and medium-term strategy. The cabinet is indeed coming up with a plan, but I think we should all also do self-reflection. That's why we're having the next speech-out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Second Chamber is a co-legislator and auditor of the Cabinet;]] [[Whereas the House of Representatives is increasingly assuming the role of co-director;]] [[points out that the House of Representatives should act more on the main lines and on what needs to be done rather than on how this can be done by seeking more depth in committees on content and technology, thereby opening up more scope for political debate on the main lines and for medium- and long-term strategy policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1691]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u545	I'm trying to move the motion, because the motion says something about the procedure of the Chamber. But that is what the individual groups themselves are about, isn't it? I'm having a bit of a dilemma here. How are we going to vote on this later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u546	Yes, of course the individual groups themselves are about that. As far as I am concerned, however, we in the House of Representatives, especially in the political debates as they are now, should be much more on the main lines of policy and not on the implementation. Because that's what we usually do. As far as I am concerned, it is an appeal to all my fellow Members to sit on the main lines of the debate and look at each other, and this is also going to happen, for example, how we can meet in a different way later on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u547	I think it is very good to talk about the method, but I find it a bit difficult to say that with a speech-expression. Would it not be better for us in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to have a good discussion about this and see what the conclusions are? More general debate naturally speaks on the one hand. For who is not in favour of a general debate? But we also have an arrangement here that we have to look very closely at. That's also about details. People sometimes suffer more from the details than from the main lines. So we have to take a good look at that and do our job in it. I'm just trying to figure out if this is the way we can move forward. Shouldn't we just set this up at the procedural meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u548	As far as I'm concerned, one doesn't rule out the other. I think it's fine to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u549	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u550	Thank you. I have two motions, more or less pending the Minister's reply. So it could change, but I'll file them in advance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the profession of veterinarians has not been classified as a crucial profession;]] [[noting that veterinary practice has been assigned as a public place to remain open;]] [[Whereas all veterinarians, irrespective of the sector in which they operate, in addition to their care for animal health and welfare, play a key role in preventing and controlling zoonotic infectious diseases and ensuring food safety;]] [[Whereas, during the lockdown, veterinarians cannot use emergency care for their children and thereby affect animal care;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to designate veterinary and paraveterinary professions as crucial professions in order to keep veterinary care available in the Netherlands in the interests of humans and animals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that on 18 December the Cabinet opened the host parents' care only to crucial professions;]] [[noting that on 20 December the host care was suddenly opened up to all children aged 0 to 12;]] [[Whereas, as a result of this interim changed policy, host care is no longer eligible for a compensation scheme;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to enter into talks with the trade association of the host parents' care in order to arrive at an appropriate compensation scheme for host parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1692]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1693]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u551	I have the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many entrepreneurs are reimbursed in their costs, but not in their wages;]] [[calls on the government to include income support for entrepreneurs in the support packages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are hardly any contaminations in flower shops;]] [[calls on the government to include florists among the essential stores,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new measures require that Christmas trees should be outdoors, but florists should not leave their flowers outside;]] [[calls on the government to allow florists to display their flowers outside,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large amount of money is currently to be paid for a PCR test in order to be able to travel abroad;]] [[calls on the Government to make this PCR test free of charge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Agema, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Smolders and Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1694]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1695]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1696]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Agema, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1697]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u552	I held a motion on ventilation at the Minister's request last week. Can he respond to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u553	Is it okay to do that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u554	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u555	All right. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 8:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u556	The next item is the continuation of the debate on developments concerning the coronavirus, the second term of office. I am the first to give the floor to the Prime Minister to give his appreciation of a number of motions and to answer a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u557	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 1676 is a speech-exmotion, so we will not comment on it. The motion in part No. 1677 I must dissuade. It is 8 p.m. so that workers are also able to shop. At the same time, we want to limit traffic as much as possible. The motion in part No. 1679 I must advise against. It is really not justified to do this in this epidemiological situation. At the motion in part No. 1683 I'd like to stand still a little longer. Yes, we are looking at the decision-making process. Yes, we come up with a long-term strategy. This cabinet doesn't rule the following, so it can't choose a minister for it. The OMT is, I would like to point out, an independent advisor on epidemiology. It's about that expertise. Other opinions are sought in a different way, in accordance with the Segers motion of last May. I must therefore finally, on balance, although on many elements positive, vote in favour of the motion in part No. 1683. The motion in part No. 1688 over buying by appointment in non-essential stores I must advise against. The lockdown with the closure of non-essential shops, such as toy shops and clothing stores, which was announced last weekend, is obviously necessary because of the serious concerns about omikron. Shopping by appointment means that shops are also open to a limited number of visitors with limited staff occupancy. We don't think we can do that right now. This is something we naturally look at as soon as there are opportunities for relaxation. The motion in part No. 1691 by Mrs Den Haan is a speech-expression, so we will not comment on it. The motion in part No. 1692 of BBB is about the veterinarian as a crucial profession. I'd like to leave it to judge Chamber. Indeed, the term "veterinary doctor" is not on the list of crucial professions, but from the start of the crisis this is a matter of concern. So yes, here emergency care is possible. The motion in part No. 1692 gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1695 on Mr Van Haga's flower shops, I advise. The distinction essential/non-essential is used in the draft law for the use of the corona pass. This distinction is based on essential necessities. That is not the issue here. Should you aim at crucial professions: there is no question of that either. Then the motion to part No. 1696 about the flowers and the Christmas trees. Flower pickup is possible on order. Delivery is also possible. That is why I have to refer to the debate on the motion for a resolution. 1696.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u558	I thank the Prime Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport for his appreciation and to answer a single question. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u559	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the questions that were left. I shall begin with Mrs De Vries' question. I'll put that in a letter. Her question was initially: are there enough vaccines for this booster campaign? The answer is yes. We have more than 10 million vaccines available until the end of week 4, excluding Janssen. So that's enough. Is there enough to put a next shot in Q2? There is enough for that too. For Q1 and Q2 2022, 15.2 million doses of Pfizer still have to be delivered, and in addition 5.9 million extra in Q2 if we highlight the option we are now discussing with the EU-27. In addition, there will be Moderna. So that should really be enough in the second quarter. Then Mr Paternotte. He asked if we could simultaneously give the flu shot and booster shot, as other countries do. We will certainly take that with us when reviewing the vaccination system and see if that is possible. There was now not so much research that showed that this would not be possible, but also no research that proved that it was possible. That is why we have said that we are not doing it for the sake of security. Now it doesn't fit. You know that, too. But for another campaign, of course, that would be possible. Then there was the question whether after an infection it could not be done in less time than those three months. I'd like to have a closer look at that, because I know what you mean. Then Mrs Bikker asked if we could keep in touch with the patient association of the flu group. There's not really a patient association of the flu group. Besides, it's all going so fast that it's really gonna be done in a couple of weeks. I honestly think we'll be done before we get in touch with the patient association. So I don't think there's a problem there either, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u560	I've been trying to sketch it out to the Secretary of State. On December 23rd, this group expects a text message. It's also a vulnerable group, I've called Each one, for example, in which the tension is quite high and one wonders if it's going to be okay. I keep saying, "Of course it's gonna be okay," because it's been promised. But I would like to urge the Ministry to do so with care, because it is a vulnerable group, and to be open to a signal, should that be complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u561	Sure, always. But still, if we look at how fast things are going, we can see that everyone is really next in a few weeks. So I would also like to say: I think this is going to be really good. I'd like to come back to the self-tests. Oh, no, I would have done that in the first term, I think. Then I'll go to the motions. On the motion in part No. 1675 of Paternotte c.s. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, referring to what we discussed in the first term. The motion in part No. 1680 has already been filed, I believe. I wouldn't recommend it. Moreover, the ic capacity is very strongly involved in the pandemic preparedness plan. On the motion in part No. I should like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, referring to what has been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u562	However, I have difficulty with this picture of the structural increase in ic capacity in pandemic preparedness. We all know that this cannot be done for EUR 300 million. When I talk about the investment needed to structurally increase ic capacity, I am talking, for example, about the European average. That is certainly more than EUR 300 million. Our appeal to the Cabinet is mainly to invest in what is needed. That is at least the European average. In this respect, therefore, I would like to combat the idea of structuralally increasing ic capacity being taken into account equally easily in relation to this pandemic preparedness. The upcoming cabinet will only be able to scale up flexibly. That is exactly what has been done so far. I believe that the Minister also said in the debate last week that he actually thinks that things should be different: scale up but not scale down at the same time. That should end. That's why I'm interrupting right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u563	But in a little bit more precision: I also said today that I would very much like us to be able to switch on flexibly in the next winter without at the same time scaling up such an incredible amount of care. That's one. Two is whether that also means having a structural increase from a lot of beds to a European average. I don't know if that's the way it works. That is why I would like to discourage this motion in this way. It should also be noted that the capacity of care should be considered at all when it comes to pandemic preparedness, regardless of what you need every winter for corona. I think that, of course, we should look at ic capacity and care capacity at all in order to see whether we are able to absorb possible corona waves in a better way in the future than we are today, namely by scaling down less care. But the structural increase in ic capacity to the European average is not as the plans are currently taking shape. As far as finances are concerned, this is provided for when it comes to the additional ic capacity for next year. Up to '22, 500 million is available. That's no problem for '22 anyway. For then, so for that pandemic preparedness and to be able to scale flexibly, 300 million is available. On how the new cabinet spends it, you will have to engage in the debate with the new cabinet. Then the motion to part No. 1682. It's about getting FFP2 masks instantly. This is how I'd like to dissuade that motion. I would, however, like to ask the OMT once again for advice. I have just promised this in the direction of Mrs Gündoğan. Is it necessary? As a minister, I have a role to play in that I am not the one who sets standards and makes the professional standard whether it is necessary. That is really up to the OMT and the committee that the OMT is setting up to do so. But the space to use FFP2 is there, of course, and the supply and the money are there. And those things are part of my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u564	I also asked a question because the Robert Koch Institute today, with the whole advice it lays down, also says that you have to use those FFP2 masks or surgical masks in supermarkets and shops. This should be done in order to keep them open in Germany as part of the package of measures, together with 2G, I would add. The question is whether the Minister has looked into this and can submit it to the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u565	That's what I want to do. Then I'll take the motion in part number. 1686 plus. It calls for the use of FFP2 to be encouraged and for citizens to be informed of the effectiveness of FFP2. I would also like to say that I am simply going to ask the OMT whether it is considered that omikron is a reason to look at the standardisation of the professional standard of personal protective equipment in a different way. Judgement is really up to the experts. But I will put this request to you. For that reason, I ask you to hold this motion. Then we can really wait and see what the experts have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u566	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Gündoğan. It's about the motion in part No. 1686.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u567	Yeah, it's about the motion in part no. 1686. May I respond briefly? I noticed that the OMT opinion did not include the latest investigations carried out at international level. Or at least they don't explain enough what they're calling on. I would be very pleased if such a study by the Max Planck Institute, for example, were to be included, so that we also consider the latest state of affairs and the most recent and clear research results, and not a probable older study which is quite a matter for discussion. I think that would benefit the support of the care workers. They will then be advised on the basis of the right reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u568	It is, of course, very special when I say which studies they should and should not include. I think we should just do it this way: I am asking the question and I will add that we really need to look at the latest research results. I will also add the German opinion to which Mr Paternotte has just referred. I know that this is within the OMT to a working group that really specialises in this field. I think we should do it that way. This then leads, if necessary or not, to advice on professional standards. And if the stuff is to become available, then of course employees should be able to make use of it. If a financial issue is involved, the healthcare institution concerned can always declare it at the cost of the additional cost scheme agreed by VWS. If there is a supply issue, you can call on the LCH. In my opinion, facilitating it is no problem at all. So this is really about the professional standardisation of it. That is why I would ask you to hold this motion. I will then put the question of advice to you and then we will come to a further discussion next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u569	I think Mrs Gündoğan is prepared to hold her motion. The motion in part No. 1686 is under arrest. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u570	I'm getting a little cranky the way this is going. For a year and a half we have been working on the question of which mouth caps we should or should not use. Earlier the story was: don't grab medical mouth caps because we have to keep them for care. Now we have warehouses full of them. Now we have caregivers who feel they can't work safely and that they put their own patients at risk because they can't get the right resources. We got 'em. Money's not a problem, the Minister says. Supply's here. What exactly is going on? Why wouldn't you just say to carers: here you have a pile and if you'd like to use them, use them for your own safety and for your patients' safety. What's the problem? Why wouldn't you just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u571	I don't think there's a problem. That's the point. You say that we must immediately equip everyone with FFP2 mouth masks. But here's what I'm gonna say, just in the resistance of things. Any care facility can simply order these FFP2 masks. That's not hard at all. If that costs more money than one has, one can also declare it under the multi-cost scheme. If, for any reason, one finds a supply problem, one can call on the LCH, after which the LCH can make arrangements with the health care institution. That is something other than that we have to want professionally to standardize that it is strictly necessary to wear these FFP2 masks. Besides, it's not fun to wear one of those things all day. That's what you said yourself. But if someone wants to use that, it's just a normal topic of conversation between employer and employee. So there's not really a problem. Now I know from Mrs Gündoğan that she does receive e-mails from people with problems. They are obviously not in a position to rely on it. That is why I told Mrs Gündoğan that I would be happy to look into some of these cases and ask the SZW inspection to look into this. Does an employer get very complicated here, which doesn't have to be the intention at all? Or is one not familiar with what is actually possible? I'd like to check that out, just on the basis of the casuistics. So you ask: what is the problem? I ask you back: yes, what is the problem? I don't think there's anything impossible about what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u572	Thank you. Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u573	I can see that problem. We are still getting a lot of messages from people in home care, in nursing homes and in hospitals, who do not have the right mouth caps when they want to. That's just a problem. It would help those people if this minister were simply to say: we think it wise that all the caregivers who want to use these FFP2 mouths should use them, and we therefore call on all employers to meet those caregivers, their own staff. They just miss that backup that allows the employer to say every time: we look at the guidelines and it doesn't necessarily have to. That's the problem. So they simply lack the political support to actually use them. That should be the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u574	This motion says something else, namely that I must provide them with FFP2 mouth masks. Here's what I'm thinking. No, guys, you can just buy your own personal protective equipment. That's what you got money for. You can just do that. If money is a problem, then we have provided for it. If the supply is a problem, we have provided for it. With regard to professional standards, which we have just had a discussion about, we simply need to ask the experts for real advice. We shouldn't do that here. By the way, I always think that if a conversation shows that employees feel unsafe and feel safer with other types of personal protective equipment: of course, use it, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u575	I also started the Göttingen investigation last week. I find it so unfortunate, and frustrating, that we are now again being asked to hold the motion, while the investigation shows that FFP2 masks work 75 times better than ordinary surgical masks and fabric masks. It is annoying that in the panic there is now, with even a lockdown and closures, this seems to remain on the shelf again. Last week, my motion on ventilation had to be stopped. Now this motion on masks must be stopped. Why does it happen every time MPs have to come up with proposals and initiatives like this? For example, why isn't the OMT leading the way or why isn't the Ministry leading the way? Why do Members of Parliament always have to come forward with proposals of this kind and then wait a long time and make motions? How come everything's going so poachy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u576	I don't think that's a proper representation of reality. The OMT itself said in its opinion last Saturday: we need to look again at FFP2 masks. I think that's a very good idea. I think that is very much in line with this motion. The point is that the conclusion of that view is already contained in this motion. That's why I'm saying it might be wise to take a look at her. Then we can let the experts do their job. There is no hesitation in just doing what experts think is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u577	I'll take a look at Mrs. Kicken and see if everything hasn't been said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u578	I just wanted to make a comparison with the coronapas and the discussion about 2G. Again, you try to shape this on the basis of assumptions and not yet 100% certain models. With regard to FFP2 masks, recent studies now show that they are safer. In a situation in which omikron is dominant, I would like to call for the precautionary principle to be taken into account. In this crisis, we often deal with data and models that may not have been fully crystallized, so I do not understand why the brakes should be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u579	There's no brake on it as far as I'm concerned. There is no reluctance in terms of funding or facilitation. This concerns the question of what professional directive you want to apply to professionals who have to work with protective equipment. Such a FFP2 mask is not necessarily a pleasure if you have to wear it all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u580	I do hear a lot of repetition now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u581	That's right. In the answers? A little in the questions, too, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u582	In the questions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u583	Yes. Exactly. As far as I'm concerned, there's no brake. I just think the experts should do their job. We can then use these opinions in the decisions we take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u584	Mrs Kuik explicitly asked about the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u585	Yeah, but that doesn't, on its own, count for anything else. It doesn't mean that you'll do anything just to be safe, because it's also a heavy burden for people. Mrs Kuik now asks when the opinion will be delivered. That's when the OMT finished the advice. It's as soon as possible. The motion in part No. 1685 with reference to the debate on this subject. The motion in part No. 1687 about the schools in Staphorst I advise. In the motion in part No. 1689 is requested to abolish compulsory co-financing. No, I'm not for that. The schools are really well equipped with all kinds of resources around educational accommodation. It is really important that they share responsibility from these resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u586	I think Mrs Pouw-Verweij wants a motivation for rejecting her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u587	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u588	That's the motion in part No. 1687.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u589	The motion actually suggests that those air cleaners are already proven to be effective. I think we should look into that. I would like to say: no, I do not recommend this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u590	Mrs Pouw-Verweij says there's a pilot in it. Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u591	It's about a pilot. I believe that there have been reports so far of results that are hopeful. It is precisely a pilot to investigate exactly what the effect of this is going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u592	Yes. Actually, I agree with you. If it's really just about continuing a pilot, it should be possible. I do wonder what that assumes of our commitment. If it's really just about a pilot, it's got to be possible. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u593	The motion in part No. 1687 gets judgment, then Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u594	Yes, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u595	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u596	The motion in part No. I would advise against 1690. This suggests that there should be a new plan for the scaled-down care and its overtaking, but that plan is already there. That plan hasn't changed either. As soon as there is room to catch up again, it just goes on the way it went, namely as much catching up as possible can be done again as soon as possible. For this, it is, of course, necessary that there is a structural reduction in the burden on health care. But I would advise against this motion as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u597	Mrs De Vries has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u598	Yes, I have another question about the motion in part No. 1687. It says "to give these schools the green light to continue the pilot immediately after Christmas." I think there's a weighing moment first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u599	Only under the condition of course that it can. I assume that Mrs Pouw-Verweij agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u600	I hope so, because it will determine how or what the proposal is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u601	Mrs Pouw-Verweij, will you please come to the microphone for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u602	I assume you mean the motion in such a way that if the schools open, they can continue the pilot after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u603	That would make most sense, I think, but it is up to you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u604	Yeah, that's how it's read.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u605	I think that Mrs De Vries' fear is that the schools where these air cleaners are used should not be included in a school closure because they have air cleaners. Under that condition: Judgement Room. Then I am now at the motion in part No. 1697 which is about making free tests for travel. We're not gonna do that. We have done that for a very long time, but that is no longer necessary because one can just be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u606	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State of the United States of America. We are still being asked for the opinion on the motion on item No. 1690. That motion will be dissuaded. That's also indicated. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Before you sit down, I think there's still a question about the last motion. Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u607	I didn't quite hear it right, because it was a bit of a murmuring. I think I heard in the mumbling that the motion was dissuaded because you can get vaccinated. We've rigged up a huge test circus where you can get free testing for access, antigen tests, PCR tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u608	Antigen tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u609	It completely escapes me why you would suddenly have to pay €70 if you were going abroad. That has nothing to do with the fact that you can get vaccinated. That's the point. You're gonna have to go there and get tested. So that PCR test is free at one point, but if you go abroad, you're gonna have to pay for it all of a sudden. I don't understand that logic. It has nothing to do with vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u610	Let me start by saying that I like it, given your earlier input, that you seem to be excited about the PCR test. That's interesting, this development. Two. We paid for these PCR tests when we started working with a DCC around the summer and not everyone had the opportunity to be vaccinated. Because it would then be a big burden on some families' household wallet, we made those tests free of charge. That was testing for the trip. No PCR is used for testing for access. Testing for access is indeed free, but that's an antigen test. Testing for complaints is, of course, free and that's PCR. So testing for the trip is PCR and that's not free. We're not gonna do that, because it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u611	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u612	To get rid of a misunderstanding, I've been fighting that crazy PCR test for about two years and the antigen test. I'm against it. BVNL is against it. The interest of the Netherlands is against this. We don't want any of that. But we are trying to challenge the absurdity of this policy and in that context I find it strange that all people, all families who want to go on holiday will have to pay €70 per PCR test. For a large family that is a huge amount and it is no problem to make it free. But apparently this minister doesn't want to, so I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u613	You want to make something that you're very much against for free.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u614	Thank you, Minister, before we have another discussion at the end. We are going to clean up for a moment and then the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u615	Thank you. First of all, the motion in part No. 1674 by Mrs De Vries and others. It invites the government to work with the implementing organisations to see how more distressing cases can be helped within the TVL and NOW as soon as possible. I also indicated in the debate that I fully understand the wish of the Chamber to keep an eye on harrowing cases that we cannot help at the moment. I have also indicated that careful research is required to find legally sustainable solutions for entrepreneurs falling between ship and ship, and that I want to do so in close consultation with the implementation organisations in the spirit of the Bosman Committee. This will prevent the customization we are looking for from undermining the implementation of the generic schemes. With these reservations, I would like to leave the motion to the House's judgement. Then there is Mrs Agema's motion to item No. 1678. It invites the government to introduce a hardness clause for entrepreneurs. Actually, it hits the same theme as the previous one. I have indicated that we want to come back to what we can do in the course of January in case of distress. I would therefore ask Mrs Agema to hold the motion until then. Then, in consultation with the implementation organisation, I was able to show where there are still possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u616	It is about entrepreneurs for whom it is not enough, who not only had to throw away their fresh goods, but also their glitter dresses and glitter tie. For them, the compensation in the TVL and the NOW is not enough, so they go under. I hope the Minister will take that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u617	Minister, are you then willing to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u618	Actually, that's a little different. That is the point Mrs Den Haan also raised: can such an arrangement be restored? We have to say, as a result of damage and shame, that this cannot be done. That is precisely why we have reduced the turnover limit and increased the remuneration rate in the TVL. This explanation, I fear, leads to a dissuade. Then Mr Paternotte had another question about the regime for performing arts. We've already announced the supplemental scheme. Colleague Van Engelshoven collaborates with the Fonds Podiumkunsten. The other schemes, TVL and NOW, which can be used in part, are by their very nature breathing with the decline in turnover there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u619	Thank you. Mr Paternotte has a short question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u620	That supplement was still based on a situation in which all stages were allowed to plan performances during the day. Nothing seems to have changed in that scheme since 14 December, but it has changed in the restrictions on those stages. My question is: is there any change in the supplementary regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u621	I really need to talk to colleague Van Engelshoven about that. I know she's still consulting with the Performing Arts Fund. I hope that Mr Paternotte will agree that the cabinet, through Mr Van Engelshoven, will return to this in writing. Then the motion to part No. 1684 by Mrs Teunissen and Mrs Den Haan. It invites the government to come forward with a proposal for a form of solidarity tax. I indicated that the considerations contained in the letter from the Secretary of State for Finance from September still stand, namely that you can technically carry out tax increases for the future, but that the cabinet does not think that is desirable. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u622	Then the motion to part No. 1693.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u623	Mrs van der Plas' motion for a resolution 1693 on the position of the host parents. It is true that on 18 December, although the host care facility remained open, there was an urgent advice to keep the children at home when there is no crucial profession. On 20 December, this change was made on the basis of the consideration that these are young children, who are also being cared for in a small care environment. In the motion, the cabinet is asked to discuss with the trade association in order to arrive at an appropriate compensation scheme. I notice the hostage shelter has never been closed. There has been a very short period in which it has been advised to do it in a limited way, but on balance you cannot speak of a period in which there really was closure and therefore not a reason for compensation. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 1693.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u624	I'll take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u625	I am concerned that first of all it has been communicated: do not take your children to the host care, unless you have a crucial job. Often the first message remains a bit better than an interim change that has been made on a website. Maybe parents don't know that that change was there at all. That is the underlying idea of this motion. That is why I am not asking for compensation. I ask you to talk to the trade association to see if an appropriate compensation scheme can or is necessary. It is not like I say: give them a bag of money, because the policy has suddenly changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u626	The motion not only calls for a discussion, but also calls for an appropriate compensation scheme. We must, however, give an honest indication in advance of whether we would consider this to be real. Because it is about a period of two days in which there was that uncertainty, you cannot reasonably talk about such damage that a compensation scheme would be appropriate for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u627	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u628	Would the Minister wish to discuss it, if I changed the operative part of the motion to: 'go into a discussion to see whether a compensation arrangement is desirable or necessary'. I would be happy if we could just have a word with the hostage care industry organisations. We are getting the signal that most people have just seen the first advice. That's what I said before. I don't need to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u629	Once again, there is always room to talk to the trade association host care. But I do not think it is realistic to suggest that the discussion could be about a two-day compensation scheme. I also think that when you talk, you shouldn't start with unrealistic expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u630	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u631	I don't think the Minister understands me very well. It's not just about those two days. I am concerned that the host parents may not get these children into their care at all, because a lot of parents think on the basis of the first communication: I do not have a crucial job, so I cannot take my children to the host parents' care. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u632	Even with Mrs van der Plas' explanations, I do not think it is realistic. I have also stated more broadly in my speech today that it is not conceivable to come up with tailor-made arrangements for each sector. I don't want to give that impression here. I'm gonna stay off the hook.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u633	You disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u634	No, it happens sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u635	We're going to the motion in part no. 1694.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u636	The motion in part No. 1694 belongs to Mr Van Haga, along with others. This motion calls on the government to include income support for entrepreneurs in the support packages. Entrepreneurs can, of course, rely on the TVL scheme, the NOW scheme or, in the case of small self-employed persons, on the Special Assistance for the self-employed. On top of the enlargements announced today, the cabinet sees no reason to create a separate arrangement on the income of the entrepreneur himself. So also the motion in part No. 1694 I must advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u637	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u638	I thank the rulers for their commitment when it comes to VWS. I also thank their officials. We know from the Prime Minister that he'll be back next year. The Minister of VWS, Minister De Jonge, we don't know yet. I think Minister Blok has indicated that it is not. I would therefore like to thank him, also on behalf of the House of Representatives, for everything he has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-tweedekamer-2.u639	In addition, I would like to thank the MPs and the viewers at home. Today we also had interpreters sign language again, so thanks also to the interpreters. I would also like to thank the people who are watching this debate. We're gonna vote. I am suspending the sitting for 15 minutes and I am very curious to see which of the directors remain present. I hear the Prime Minister saying he's gonna sit. That's real style: the Prime Minister who stays until the end of 2021.
