ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Ploumen, Özütok, Jasper van Dijk and Van Brenk amending the Equal Treatment Act for Men and Women in connection with the introduction of a certificate to prove that women and men receive equal pay for work of equal value (Act on Equal Pay for Women and Men) (35157). I would like to welcome the initiators to section K. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Normally there are also employees, who of course worked behind the scenes on the bill. But because of corona measures, they can't join. I also say to them: thank you for doing this. That is why the first term of office is at issue. The response is planned at a later date, of course in consultation with the initiators. But I do not rule out the fact that this will have to be after the elections, given next week's full Chamber agenda. I can hear it: heartbreaking! I see the women are at the front, and at the back of the men, especially Jasper van Dijk. But he's a little used to that. I know you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 11 November 2020 was an important day, namely Equal Pay Day, equal pay day, before the President intervenes. A day in which a lot of people all over the world, but certainly also in the Netherlands, consider the bizarre unequal pay of men and women. Because that's unfair, I think we'll all agree on that today. A day on which action is also taken, of course always supported by the SP, but also by FNV Vrouw. I was allowed to attend these action meetings twice. One of these two times was at the Jaarbeurs in Utrecht, where this initiative was born. One of the proposers, Mrs Ploumen, put forward the proposal to introduce an initiative law, inspired by Iceland. This is embraced by the others who are in box-K. Together this initiative has been taken, for which many compliments. Very important that we can discuss this with each other here today. I would also like to say to the President: if necessary, we will come here on a Sunday to bring this law to a successful conclusion as soon as possible next week, so that we can implement it quickly. I also see the proposers nodding, and I also see the Minister, the consultant, nodding, so I think we are going to organise this with each other. Mr. Chairman. The inspiration for this law was found in Iceland. As far as I know, this is the first country in the world to have introduced a law that has organised the right to equal pay for men and women in such a way that the burden of proof lies with the employer. That is exactly what the authors of this bill propose. Why is that important? Because when you come to your employer with the message that you think you're being treated unequally and rewarded, you have quite a battle to fight. The FNV gives an example in which that battle lasted for three years, let alone if you have an uncertain contract or a flex relationship with the employer, and you also run the risk of losing your job. Then, of course, it's completely complicated to take your position. That is why the SP is very excited that this has been incorporated into the law in this way. Mr. Chairman. Employers who have organized it well also have nothing to fear at all. They have to submit a report and then receive a certificate for three years, where of course nothing is going on. I think there are almost no employers who do so on purpose, but employers who accidentally reward wrongly can see this as a tool for achieving equal pay within the company. I am convinced that employers who do this by mistake, who have just gone wrong, would also see this as a tool. Are we there with this law regarding unequal pay? No. Of all causes, this law may solve a third of the pay gap. Two thirds of the wage difference can be explained by other reasons. For this reason, the SP Group will continue to fight for, for example, a higher minimum wage, because it also focuses on the differences between work in different sectors. For the pay is not only different between men and women, but also between women working in different sectors or different income groups. That is why it is very important that the minimum wage goes to €14. It is also very important that we organise childcare in a good way, namely free of charge, so that the care tasks are much better organised. It is also important that care leave is properly arranged and that a father, when his child is born, is also given a long leave so that time can be properly divided. Then the father can also bond with his baby and he doesn't have to work again after three or five days, or later after ten days. In doing so, we can be inspired by the Scandinavian countries, where this is already done in a much better way. In this way, we can also resolve the remaining wage differences. Because let's make one thing clear: women deserve the same thing, but they don't get it, and that's not fair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You won't be surprised, but GroenLinks is very happy with this bill. Finally, I'd like to say. Finally, we are going to do something about the gender pay gap, which should have been closed in an emancipated country like the Netherlands in 2021. Mr. Chairman. Apparently, it is far from obvious in our beautiful and prosperous country that men and women are paid the same for the same work. Women earn an average of 14% less than men in the Netherlands. The campaign for a minimum wage of €14 is also very important, but it is also special that it is 14%. This is partly due to the fact that, unfortunately, women often do a different type of work, such as in health care or education. Those are functions that we just have to pay better. But also in the same position for the same amount of hours women are paid less than men. That pay gap is closing slowly. We can say: that's very positive, so we don't have to do anything about it. But as far as GroenLinks is concerned, things are going way too slowly. The difference in pay in industry decreased by only 3% between 2008 and 2016, i.e. in almost ten years. If we go on like this, that means the gap won't be closed until 2050. Meanwhile, on average, women miss €300,000 in their working lives. That is completely unjust and out of date. If you look at what we as a government do to counteract that, that is really far too little compared to other countries. Countries such as Iceland, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Germany have long had legislation on this and the Netherlands has also been called upon to do so in an international context. The UN Committee on Women's Discrimination recommended that the government do more to prevent unequal pay. That was in 2010, 11 years ago. The government hasn't done anything about this since. That is why GroenLinks is very positive about this bill, because it shifts the responsibility for closing the pay gap from those without or with little power, the workers, to those with power, the employers. We think that is necessary, also because many women who earn less than their male colleagues simply do not know that. On the one hand, it is a good thing that in principle you do not know what your colleagues deserve, and we as MPs know that, but that also makes it even more unfair and difficult to counter this. Mr. Chairman. That is why we believe it is important to create another system: a system with much more transparency. If both employer and employee do not know that there is a pay gap within the organisation, then that gap cannot be closed either. We believe, on the contrary, that the reversal of the burden of proof will make it much clearer for employers. We also think that a lot of employers are not aware of it at all. In our eyes, there's no evil intent, but it does happen. By forcing employers to make it transparent, they can also see that it is not good and that it needs to be adapted. We believe that a certification system can help. I am therefore pleased to see that in principle all companies can apply for a certificate. However, I find it striking that one question, Mr President-in-Office, is that this proposal sets the limit of the requirement to apply for a certificate for companies with more than 50 entrepreneurs, whereas in Iceland, for example, that limit is 25 employees. I would like to know from the initiators why this was chosen. We also see that there is a different system of fines in Iceland than in the Netherlands. In Iceland you get a daily fine. In the Netherlands we want a one-off fine which, if it happens more often, will increase. Could the initiators also explain why they chose to do so? Then there's a question about enforcement and supervision. We all know that the implementation services in the Netherlands are not doing very well. Also the Inspection SZW is not an organisation that they have a lot of capacity about, because they are incredibly busy with other, also important matters. Could the initiators explain this? We have seen for years that the SZW inspection capacity is inadequate. How do they expect the inspection to deal with this? Finally, Mr President. This is an important step, but as Mr Van Kent of the SP said just now: we are not here with this, of course. Much more needs to be done to ensure that women have a fair and equal position in our labour market. There are many examples, but at least let's start making childcare free. Because I think that's incredibly beneficial for a lot of people. To the second!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u6	Yes, very good. Well, minus two seconds. No, neat. Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I was born in 1980, my mother got two reactions when she came back to work. One was: Congratulations, you have a first child. The second reaction was: it's a shame you're leaving with us. That was about the standard reaction when you had a child as a woman. Now I have to say that a lot has happened since 1980. My mom didn't go home, she kept working full-time. I went to the only kindergarten in Leiden, the Peuter Palette, on the other side of town, so my mother could work and I could grow up in a very nice way with a very loving mother, who didn't give up her career but combined both. And she did that as a single mother. Since then, a lot has improved. I thought that was exceptional and the stories I heard about it were quite small at the time, which scared me. So we can see that a lot has really changed in our society for the better. Take the quality of childcare, but also that there is much more to choose. We are making much more possible, but a number of steps will really have to be taken. Mr. Chairman. I come to the legislative proposal, which we, too, as a group of the Labour Party, appreciate very much. You're scared when you see women earn 14% less on average. And indeed, that is pure and only the reward. But it also has to do with the system, with the way we together raise children as men and women. Often this still happens very traditionally, so that means we have to take steps to increase paid parental leave and extend birth leave. In this sense, we can indeed take a good example from the Scandinavian countries. So we will have to take a lot of political steps, but this is one of them. It is, of course, very good that we are going to make it clear what these often implicit differences in pay cause, because often that is not the intention of the employer. I may dare say that there is almost no employer in the Netherlands who intends to reward women less than men, but there is obviously something in the culture that is not seen, not by the employer but also by the employee. What this bill aims to do is to make this transparent and bring it up. 'Cause there's really a lot to do. In 1975 there was already a first law, and since 1980 we simply have the Equal Treatment Act. So in that sense, you should say, "Everyone should obey the law." It's just, implicitly, that's not what's being done. In that sense, it is important that we standardise this, because it is not without obligation when we have legislation that says: there must be equal treatment and pay in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight three points with this legal process. The first is the role of the government as a model. In practice, we see that there are a number of companies, such as Aegon, KPN and APG, which are good examples. For example, they have agreed with the trade unions on the pay gap, which exists in practice, and also to close that pay gap. For example, APG gave 125 female employees a wage increase in 2019, so that there is no difference in pay between men and women at APG. So you see: if you make the conversation possible and if you make it insightful, you can see that there are differences and you can also solve them. But what about the government? We often talk here about the need for the government to set a good example. This is a question that I explicitly ask the Minister. Does he have any idea of the pay gap in the direct public institutions, but also in the indirect public institutions? It would be nice if we could set a good example there, even as a government, with this legislation, but perhaps we can do so today and tomorrow. This also applies to women at the top, because there too we have a whole battle to fight. Do the initiators see a relationship between the under-representation of women at the top and the unequal pay of women? Mr. Chairman. The second point I want to make about this bill is that an important part of this bill is that we reverse the burden of proof. Now it lies with the individual employee, which is very difficult in practice, especially if it is some sort of implicit culture in which it happens just like that. It is good that we make it transparent and that we ask the employer to make that clear. Employers who do this well can collect the certificate. Employers who have not yet shown this properly, we help with such a certificate to enable the conversation and to resolve the pay gap in a neat way. I think it is very good and important that we place the burden of proof on the employer and that we also help the employers a little. I am very curious to see how we are going to do this in terms of enforcement. What is the role of the inspection? How do the proposers view the role of the inspection in the enforcement of this legislation? Finally, Mr President. In Europe too, we are seeing a rather big discussion about the pay gap. It plays not only in the Netherlands, but throughout the European Union. A 2008 directive on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women has been adopted, but so far there is still unequal pay. It is not for nothing that a resolution has been adopted in the European Parliament that the European Commission is instructing to include binding provisions on transparency, closing the pay gap and strict enforcement policies in the new gender equality strategy. The government itself writes in the response to the European Commission's consultation on the pay gap..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, with this reaction, the Minister says that this legislation, with which we want to make the Netherlands a precursor, could be a good idea. Can the Minister respond to this, given his response to the European Commission? Mr. Chairman. I would say: let us not wait for European action. Like Iceland, we can be a progressive country by taking steps forward ourselves. Let us stop waiting and follow the good examples and close the pay gap as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u8	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill won't come a day early. It is clear that the Netherlands still has a very long way to go when it comes to the pay gap. Earlier speakers said it: at this rate, we will be working for decades before hopefully closing the pay gap. That's just unfair and contrary to the current law, because you hear the same thing being paid when you do the same work. Unfortunately, it hasn't. In business, for example, the difference in hourly earnings between men and women is still 19%. 19%! That's a lot. For a five-day workweek, you work almost one day for free. We have to do something about that. Mr. Chairman. When you look at where that pay gap comes from, you see that it's about, as it's called in the jargon, explained and unexplained differences. Do the initiators agree with me that the differences expressed are even greater than the unexplained differences at the moment and that they are also a very big problem? As far as I am concerned, they are the result of the still lost part-time culture in the Netherlands, the still too deep-rooted prejudices and the underlying fact that almost half of women in the Netherlands are still not economically independent. D66 thinks that's a big problem. If you want to deal with that, you have to look at what you can do about the unexplained part. That is what this legislative initiative is looking at, and I congratulate the initiators for taking that effort. As far as I'm concerned, initiative laws are still the most beautiful laws in this Parliament. But the other part also requires a lot. A number of things have also been done by the Cabinet in recent years, and I welcome them. I refer to the WIEG, the extension of partner leave at births, and parental leave. Fortunately, we have not declared the legislative proposal on this subject controversial today. And there will also be a bill on the position of women in the summit. But we are far from there, and indeed, making work pay more, also for the least-earning partner, free childcare and, above all, breaking deep-rooted patterns and prejudices in the Netherlands are indispensable. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to this bill. Just because my group thinks it is important, it is also good to know that we can also deliver on what we are announcing. I'm sure the initiators will agree with me. I do have some questions about that. I am very sympathetic to the reversal of the burden of proof and to the observation that we must also do something legally. That finding shares D66. We can't just refer to: it can't be done now. It is good for this form of labour market discrimination, because that is what it is, also by law, to take additional measures. And then the question is what is most effective. That's a pretty tough question. The initiators have also struggled with this. I remember that in the past there was an initiative law stating that it had to be done mainly through the annual reports. There is now, a number of years later, a further initiative law, which states that we are going to certify. The initiators have chosen to do so now for companies over 250 employees. That's about 3,300, if I understand correctly. I think it's a wise choice to start there. Those companies are also able, also with a HR department, to comply with the obligation imposed on them. That is an obligation that I fully support, but it is of course a major one and it calls for action. And that's pretty serious action, because this is pretty elusive from time to time. In order to argue why this form, with that certification and with the supervision by the Inspection SZW behind it, is the best one, the initiators refer to the Icelandic model, which they in fact declare applicable to the Netherlands. The initiators say in the written round that we had before the debate in this Chamber: yes, in Iceland, this unexplained pay gap has disappeared through the law. I thought that was a very nice but also very firm position. I would therefore like to ask whether more justification can be given for this in the reply. Why is that? And are we also sure that's because of this law? I am also very curious about what certification looks like there, and also about government supervision of companies that fail to obtain certification. On that point, I think the answer is a little brief, but that is where, I think, the success has to come from. How exactly is it arranged in Iceland for that to work? And what, according to the initiators, really makes that image better than, for example, the English model? I will not work that out entirely with regard to the clock; the initiators know what I mean by that English model. Mr President, my second question. If we're going to certify, how am I supposed to imagine that? Is there a very concrete certification model, which could perhaps also be shared with the Chamber, which Iceland uses? 'Cause I'm still looking for how you do this. I very much agree with the initiators that it is usually, almost always, I think, no evil will. You're trying to make it tangible. Could the initiators say more about this? Now we got a letter from the College of Human Rights. That is what labour market discrimination is all about, an ally of all those here who are keen on this issue. But that letter's kind of delivered. I'm asking the initiators to respond to what's in there. I would like to mention three specific points. Mr President, I see that I am going to need a little longer than my indicated time, for which I apologise to you. The first point in that letter is about the fact that according to this bill you have to wait two months, in which you have to talk to your employer, before you can go to the college to get your individual right. They find that unfortunate, and I must say that I understand. I am also considering an amendment on that point, but I am particularly curious about the recital. That's what I like to hear first. I very much agree with the initiators that of course you prefer to solve this in love with each other in the workplace. But I think it goes a long way to denying people the right to a hallway to the college. I'd like a response to that. The second point is that there are concerns that the certification system may not be able to reach the most resilient part, namely the difference in pay within pay scales. It often happens that someone is wrongly scaled a few scales higher or lower than a male colleague. The College has great concerns that this is not covered in that certification. Do the initiators recognise this concern? How would they address that? For example, does the Icelandic model also offer us a handle to do so? Because apparently that whole unexplained pay gap has disappeared there. Then how did that work out there? The third question is that, in reversing the burden of proof, the College, which sounds like an extra weapon in the arsenal of women who are unequally rewarded, says: yes, but we do not see that happening in practice. You're always gonna have to make something plausible. It's a bit of a legal question, but I'd like to see how the initiators do it. Mr. Chairman. Then the role of the collective agreement. I think it is important not only for legislation to pay much more attention to this, but also for collective agreements. It is precisely collective bargaining that is deeply involved in what is happening in the workplace and in remuneration. This should never be a replacement. Do the initiators agree with me? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the implementation. The exact way in which the Labour Inspectorate, nowadays the SZW Inspection, has to carry out this, I do not have any sharpness. I would like to hear how this is done in Iceland, because I assume that some sort of working authority is doing so there too. But I also have questions about who's gonna do this. There was once a unit against labour market discrimination by Mrs Karabulut and myself, which was subsequently extended by means of the coalition agreement. That's very important, but they can't just do this. How is that arranged? How do they really get the handles to do this? Has there been an execution test?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u11	How does the Minister see this? Yes, Mr President, it is legislation, Mr Omtzigt would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u12	Yeah, but you turned yourself in for five minutes. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u13	Mr. Chairman. I'm always a little jealous when fellow chamber members launch an initiative law. First of all, I look with admiration at the efforts and perseverance required for such a legislative process. In addition, I think it is very handsome if there seems to be a practical solution to a problem that is very close to my heart: equal pay for equal work. I would like the equality of men and women to be more visible in our country, in our labour market, so I also thought: ooh! That is why I would like to congratulate and congratulate the initiators, Mrs Ploumen, Mrs Özütok, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenk on what is now before us. In what is ahead, I recognize the effort and perseverance. I can imagine it took blood, sweat and tears before we got here. Unfortunately, however, I do not recognize that there is a practical solution to the problem, the problem that in many cases it still makes a difference when paying the salary whether you are a man or a woman. That's weird, I'd say. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is high time we put that behind us in 2021. I believe that all the previous speakers have said the same thing. If it is up to me, we also ask the Minister to put in place some effective measures as a figurehead of our labour market. But as a Chamber, we have to judge individual laws, and as far as I am concerned, this bill is not the right measure. Looks like it's becoming a bit of a bureaucratic cannon. Mr. Chairman. I therefore have a number of questions to the initiators and I will go into a little more detail on an alternative solution that I am looking for. In equal cases, people, men and women, must be treated equally and thus paid equally. That is what we have laid down in the Constitution and in other laws. They already came to the previous speakers. However, the initiators have based their proposal on average cases, which is different from equal cases. Mr Van Weyenberg made a nice calculation error with his 19% difference. The reasoning is based on the average working man and the average working woman, but, yes, averages do not exist. The CBS and other research organisations have clever minds that look deeper than the average and come up with a corrected unexplained pay gap of 4% to 6%, when men and women do exactly the same work in exactly the same positions. My question to the initiators is how the proposed certification is in line with the statistics. How deep do they go? Are we really talking about peers or are we just gonna keep talking in averages? What, according to the initiators, is the definition of equal cases? How do they measure that? How is it then anchored in the proposals? Because if you want to solve a problem, you have to understand it first. I heard someone say that last week. I am therefore curious about the figures that the initiators have on the pay gap in relation to the size of companies. Are wage differences also greater in large companies, or are the differences perhaps greater in small companies? That is relevant, since the initiators have amended the bill on the advice of the Council of State, which considered the administrative burden of this bill to be disproportionate for small businesses. But is it not possible that precisely by adapting the proposal, the law written by the initiators could miss exactly the intended effect? Imagine that in small businesses, the differences are actually bigger, but you keep them out of the target range. Quite frankly, when I speak to different companies, I often get the impression that these large companies are deliberately applying the desired wage equality. The smaller ones are less aware of that. Do the initiators see that, too? Do they particularly want to achieve the goal, or is the methodology also important? The initiators acknowledged that the administrative burden is too great for small businesses and adapted it. That's at least sympathetic. At the same time, more than 99% of companies in the Netherlands have fewer than 250 employees, so the question is whether we should then legislate. So I also ask the initiators whether they can see the practical consequences of the rather large bureaucracy. What should companies start or change in order to comply with their proposed legal obligations? What solution do they propose for the risks of data sharing? The fact that you can anonymize parts of files in theory does not mean that this happens risklessly in practice. Unfortunately, we often see examples of this nowadays. Mr. Chairman. As a legislator, we have a responsibility to adopt good, enforceable laws. Then it helps if you can not only write them down, but you can also imagine how those laws and rules work out in practice. Can the initiators fully and clearly justify on the basis of what assumptions they think the bill is enforceable? Are they willing to add a risk analysis? We are generally not very enthusiastic about new laws, especially if laws already exist. You need to set these if the intended effects can really be achieved and if they are enforceable, effective, effective, feasible and proportionate. All expensive words, but they actually mean that we think that the equal pay law for equal work should be able to do its job. I would like to know from the initiators what other instruments they have considered to make the current law, the equal pay law, more effective. What is the reason they rejected these instruments? Can the initiators show more what the considerations are? We would very much like there to be an improvement programme to ensure that this equal pay law is effective. Is it not possible to create a programme involving both private and public organisations and small SME and larger organisations, in which we can have a good understanding of the figures with the help of statisticians? Can we, for example, create a national comparative platform where people, both employers and employees, can see if their salary is actually right, compared to the people who do equal work? After all, it all starts with awareness. As the initiators mention in their explanatory memorandum, employers almost never consciously pay their female employees less than their male colleagues. I think we need to raise that awareness first. A well-designed and wide-ranging programme can contribute to this faster and more firmly than a law that may in advance raises resistance due to its enormous bureaucracy. Mr. Chairman. Striving for a good cause doesn't mean that the invented drug is the right solution. I kind of feel that way. I think we can do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u14	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I see three MPs who have questions. First Mr Gijs van Dijk, then Mr Smeulders and then Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u15	My heart's bleeding a little bit. I'm gonna need to get that off my chest. "It begins with awareness." I was talking very consciously about 1980. This discussion is neither from last year nor two years ago. This has been a discussion for decades. We've had great differences between men and women for decades, and we don't want them to. The 1975 and 1980 laws say that the whole parliament does not want that. So we haven't wanted that for decades either. Then I hear the VVD say that it is complicated, that there is bureaucracy, that legislation needs to be properly examined, and so on. But when it comes to other matters, the VVD is at the front with legal measures. When it comes to newcomers, the Dutch language or integration, legislation must be introduced immediately, for a relatively small group. This is about a social phenomenon that we've known for decades. Isn't raising awareness far too low? We need to look at good examples from abroad and now we need to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u16	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u17	Can we still find the VVD on our side?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u18	I sincerely believe that this law is not the answer to the question. Again, I share the goal sincerely and with all my heart. I also understand that your heart is bleeding a little bit, because you were hoping that we could sign this together. But the initiators themselves describe how important awareness is. When you talk about it with companies, big and small, it starts with awareness, like I said. I don't think you should start with certification, sanctions and fines right away, but first you should look at what's really going on. We are already getting unadjusted and corrected in the room, let alone all the other underlying factors. This bill is simply not the answer. But I'd like to work on something to raise awareness and reduce wage differentials. By the way, you yourself gave it The difference is still present and still too big, but also not as big as it was 40 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u19	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to talk about this a little longer. Let me compare it with, for example, the employment agencies. Tomorrow we have a debate on migrant workers. We've been saying for decades that we have to do something with that. What do we say? Something I often hear from the VVD: it's about raising awareness at the temporary agency that we shouldn't deal with these people like that. In the end, too little happens in practice. It helps to standardize here from The Hague if we really think things are important. And I think it is important together, as you said in your own contribution, that men and women are treated and rewarded alike. If we can arrange that with a relatively simple, light law...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u20	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u21	...why wouldn't we do that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u22	But it's not a simple, light law. You're already trying to get me a verdict for tomorrow morning. I'll hold that cliff hanger for a while; we'll talk about that tomorrow. But it's not a simple, light law. I think that's really a misconception. A good cause does not mean that every means is justified. As far as I am concerned, this means is not the best, but I am happy to cooperate in ensuring that there is a good remedy. For once again, we both serve the purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u23	I would like to go into this further. The VVD indeed speaks a lot of beautiful words and says that the problem is so big. Well, not much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u24	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u25	Mrs Tielen started her speech with that. Then there came a whole series of questions and reasons why this bill would be totally impossible, when I think it is indeed a light law. Other countries are already doing it, and that's where it works fine. And then there is still some sort of solution of the VVD, a program. I think I understood that correctly: the VVD wants a programme of employers and employees, big and small, so that we can talk about this further. But isn't the VVD a party of doin'? We've been talking about this for so many years. Does Mrs Tielen honestly think that a programme with probably all well-meaning employers and employees in particular is going to solve this huge problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u26	In my view, the legislators recognise that there are a lot of well-meaning employers and that most employers do not deliberately make a difference between men and women in terms of pay. I think we are talking about a target group for which awareness is very much needed. We need handles to get insight and move forward, but we don't need a whole law with a certification requirement, a penalty clause and I know what. First, let's really understand what it's all about. Again, here we already get corrected and uncorrected mixed up, the percentages fly through the door and we're all talking about different things. Let's do something. Get those companies. How many companies have we talked to to see if this actually fits in with the daily practice of the employer? How many employees has been talked to to see if this is actually going to help them move forward? I wonder. I'd like to get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u27	[[Sentence could not be parsed: De VVD is blijkbaar niet de partij van doen.]] There's just a bill. You can vote in favour and then it will be carried out. That seems super-active to me. I notice that the VVD is suddenly also against fines. How many debates have we had here in the Chamber in which the VVD is the first to call for huge fines for anyone who violates that law? We have had a great social injustice here for many years, as I say as a man. There's just a great social injustice. Now there's a law of the Chamber to do something about it. Is it perfect? No, probably not. Is there a better solution? I don't see them. Then why is the VVD stopping this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u28	I've just spent almost seven minutes on that, with a lot of questions. If you sign a law here, it doesn't mean it's gonna happen right away. There are all kinds of people in the country who need to do something with that. I say, let's start doing something about it before we get all kinds of weird laws... well, that's not nice of me to say that. I take that back. I mean, before we pass this law. And then there's a lot of things to do. It's not in proportion to each other. So no matter how good the goal is: equal work, equal pay; an equal position for men and women in our country and in the labour market. But this law, I don't believe it will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u29	It's already been called a weird law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u30	I took that back, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u31	I hear the VVD saying here: we have to do something first. Well, I think that's what we're doing right now. There's an initiative law. I'd like to ask the VVD the following question. We've been talking about this for a long time. It's a huge injustice. Why does the VVD only ask detailed questions about all kinds of percentages here, just as if the pay gap would not be bad if we were to assume the corrected percentage? That would be bad, too. That's what I think we're quick to agree on. So there's got to be some kind of intervention. And that's what we do with this law. Why is the VVD here just training, asking detailed questions instead of thinking about how to solve this problem? I dare you. If you say here that you also think something should be done about it, then come up with a proposal that is better than this law. If you know better, come up with an amendment to improve this law. But all I hear is detailed questions. That's just training a solution that's been put forward here by a lot of MPs and a lot of different parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u32	I think Mr. Van Kent is wronging my contribution. I've just taken something back, but then he's gonna repeat it. I think that's silly. But that aside. I ask a number of questions because these are fundamental things. You say it yourself: it is fundamental. Is it really big? That's the question. If you work three days instead of five, it makes sense that there's a wage difference of 40%. That's not so crazy at all. So you really need to correct that. If you're working 40% less than a man from day one in your life, it's not so crazy that it's working through your entire career. That kind of factor is quite important to take into account in actually understanding what the problem is, where it lies and how you solve it. I sincerely do not believe that this law is the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u33	Now I'm getting some kind of lecture on the numbers, like I wouldn't know. In my speech, I made a very clear distinction between the explanatory factors and the inexplicable factors. But what I think is going on here is that the VVD chooses here for the interests of companies with 250 employees and more, in order to prevent them from having to organise a certificate. In my view, the VVD chooses these companies at the expense of all those women who are unequally rewarded and at the expense of solving a great social injustice. In that respect, the VVD here is again the errand boy of the large company, of VNO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u34	The VVD stands out here for women who work at all companies and organisations in the Netherlands, and not only for those 1% companies over 250 employees. Let's take multiple companies to see where the problem really is. Let's sit down with those employers and employees. Let's make it clear. You can google like this: this is my function, this is what I do, is it really okay? Or does it turn out that on average a man earns more than I deserve 7%, 8% or more than I do now? Then I can do something. This is different from what is now a law with certification for companies greater than 250 employees and a fine on it, and a report. We can now also ask the Minister to report every two years by means of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u35	Finally, Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u36	Then the VVD can still table an amendment to reduce that limit to 50 employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u37	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u38	If that's a very important point for the VVD, if the VVD says "no, we're going to start now with companies from 50 employees," despite the advice of the Council of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u39	Not with a law! Not with a law!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u40	... without first looking at how it works with those companies larger than 250 employees... Go ahead! But the VVD doesn't deliver here. The VVD is just training to please those few employers in her constituency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u41	Oh, Mr. Van Kent, stop it! Hello, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u42	I find that really very damaging and shameful towards the great social injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u43	Mr. Van Kent is challenging me, and he is indeed doing it. He's challenging me to make a better plan. I'd be happy to. Mr. Van Kent challenges me and assigns to me all sorts of things that are demonstrably incorrect. Anyway, that's Mr. Van Kent's style. He's gonna have to keep up the good work!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u44	Thank you. You finished your speech, Mrs. Tielen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u45	Didn't I have any other interruptions? Too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u46	Well, I'm gonna go check it out. No, it's okay. It's okay. Thank you. Mr Van Otterloo's turn is now. Mr Van Otterloo has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact that we still have to talk here about equal pay for men and women and that we do not yet have a practical instrument for this is, of course, too sad for words, but it is good that it leads to an initiative by our colleagues. Although? I always have an eye for irony. They have started out as four people with equal pay, but two of them, ladies and gentlemen, have suffered something that makes them earn a little more than their colleagues. So you see that reality sometimes gives a certain ironic twist to the whole. And this wasn't even because someone wanted something, it was because something happened to someone. That also brings me to the fact that a lot of women get hurt that they didn't want: that they are not paid enough compared to their male colleagues. The organizations that thought they were good and did research on it, often came to the conclusion that there were inexplicable differences in pay. We are, of course, the controller of a very large employer, the government. We must also note that the government is failing something, whereas the government should be the right example. Although research shows that wage differences in government are less pronounced than in companies, there are nevertheless differences. Nor does it matter whether there are many men or many women working in sectors. The example of GGZ Delfland, where someone had to go to the Human Rights College to establish that she was actually underpaid compared to a male colleague, indicates that it is not dependent on the composition of the workforce in one place. It must be noted that most organisations do not take it up and that the road to the College of Human Rights is always a bit difficult. Only one in ten large organisations has themselves investigated the differences. There seems to be an entire world winning at the other nine out of ten. A legal obligation is then an incentive for the organisations, because with a legal obligation you can also better do self-examination. Mr Van Dijk has already recalled that APG has also carried out an investigation and has also looked into this. In a follow-up study, we looked at the causes. It is not the distortion at the time of taking up office, but in the course of the process. If all the organizations did, we'd be a whole lot further. We hope that this bill will work. Even if Iceland is small compared to the Netherlands, we can still benefit from that example. I do have a few more questions. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, there is also the question of economic independence. I am also curious to see how the initiators put this in the spotlight on women's economic independence. I am also curious to see what exactly they want to achieve with the legislation and when they see for themselves that the gender pay gap in the Netherlands is really closed. It has already been mentioned that it can take a very long time if it goes at this rate. Do they have any idea how employers will actually deal with this problem without doing so through all kinds of cases at the Human Rights College? Mr. Chairman. Once again, our compliments to the initiators. It's always a party when MPs can do this themselves. Especially in times of a missionary cabinet, everyone must seize his chance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u48	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I see Mr De Jong, but first I have Mrs Palland on my list. Then it's your turn. Mrs Palland on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u49	Thank you, Mr President. The economic position of the average Dutch woman is getting better, CBS recently reported. However, there are still major challenges when it comes to equal pay, for example. For example, Joyce van der Wegen of the Dutch Women's Council stated that women can actually quit work every year on November 10th, as Equal Pay Day has already been mentioned, because women earn less than men with the same work. Then you actually work 51 days a year for free as a woman. That is not correct, I say to Mrs Tielen, where she rightly has a point. However, that difference cannot be explained. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating the initiators of this legislative proposal and thanking them for the initiative to draw attention to this issue and to come forward with proposals. The CDA shares the view of the initiators that the gender pay gap should be reduced and equal pay for equal cases regardless of gender, origin or belief. Fortunately, figures show that the pay gap is narrowing. CBS figures show that young women earn even more than young men in government. At a higher age, this is a big difference, adjusted for the type of work, training and experience, for example, that difference is a little smaller, but there is still a difference. Ideally, we have closed this gap tomorrow, but we all know that such changes will not succeed from today to tomorrow. Companies are increasingly aware of the issue. This is evident from the increase in the number of collective agreements and agreements with the or to investigate pay differences. We also see that many employers are working on the 2018 Labour Market Discrimination Implementation Plan, which includes the promotion of equal pay. In addition, the Labour Foundation offers its grassroots guides to address the bridging of the pay gap, by, for example, making the checklist equal pay available. The government also contributes by providing information about the right to equal pay in an accessible manner. These are all recent steps in the right direction, which should lead to awareness and improvement. Awareness, because wage discrimination has been banned for decades in the light of existing laws. Can the proposers indicate the impact of recent measures on the pay gap? If not, is it not wise to check the current state of affairs before we impose new laws and regulations? In addition to existing laws and regulations, the bill adds four new rules. A certification obligation, a reporting obligation to the or and in the management report, and a right of inspection for the employee. The CDA still has several questions about this bill, about whether this is the right way to effectively and effectively reduce that pay gap. This hesitation lies in particular in the proportionality of the proposed legal obligations and their feasibility. First on the role of the or in the information position. In itself, we are in favour of the role of the organisation and the improvement of information on possible pay gaps. In addition, we still have the question about guaranteeing privacy and complying with GDPR legislation. The initiators did not ask the Dutch Data Protection Authority for a response to this bill. The Council of State strongly recommends doing so, because of GDPR legislation, just like the FNV. Are they prepared to submit this proposal to the AP? My question to the Minister, who is present as an advisor, is he of the opinion that the present initiative proposal complies sufficiently with GDPR legislation and privacy assurance? On the basis of current legislation, the works council already has the task of promoting equal treatment. Equal pay is part of this. It has been given different powers to do so. The collective bargaining instruments also offer a good collective guarantee. However, not all works councils are aware of this. Is the Minister prepared to take stock of the possibilities for giving them more knowledge and guidance? Then I come to the obligation of certification and the reversal of the burden of proof. We have greater hesitations in this regard. The CDA Group believes that our reluctance to come up with legislation is appropriate, in addition to the ban on pay discrimination that already exists and in addition to all kinds of initiatives recently taken to gain more insight and raise awareness. We would also like to give serious consideration to the Council of State's message on questions concerning the proportionality of this bill. The Council of State points out that very labour-intensive investigations are necessary in order to establish with certainty whether there is pay inequality. All measures of remuneration applied to female and male workers must be assessed and the application of these measures in the specific case of the individual worker in a non-discriminatory manner vis-à-vis comparable workers must be examined. According to the Council of State, it is impossible to require such highly labour-intensive investigations by companies or by a certification body. The College of Human Rights has also expressed itself critically on this issue. Now the initiators have shifted this obligation to only the larger companies. Even so. Can the initiators further argue their disagreement with the Council of State and the Human Rights College on this matter? Additional question: are the data currently kept in the personnel files sufficient to give a fair assessment of the pay gap? If so, where does it come from? Or is there still a need for more information and therefore activity on the part of the employer? How are the personal circumstances and choices of employees taken into account? It is possible that employees in the same function group and background may experience faster wage growth in the organisation over the course of their working years by means of better performance than other employees. Will it remain possible to reward women and men on the basis of commitment, motivation and/or performance, by giving them a higher salary? Do we perhaps also run the risk of raising a threshold for hiring a re-enter, for example, because an employer is afraid of a fine if it lowers her because of less years of work experience? The initiators compare with Germany, where companies with more than 200 employees are obliged to disclose information on remuneration policies. The Netherlands is doing slightly better than the European average, 15.2% compared to 16%, while Germany is at 20%. Can the initiators indicate why they think that this will close the wage gap in the Netherlands and not in Germany? Can the initiators indicate how other European countries address this pay gap and what its impact is? Then there's enforcement. The initiators propose that a ZBO should take on data processing and publishing and periodically reviewing certification. Is that a new one or an existing one? And what budgetary provision is needed to accommodate this task in a Zbo? Finally, I have a question for the Minister: does he see room for improvement in enforcement? I agree with every question that has been asked. Then any alternatives. Has it been considered, instead of shifting the burden of proof to the employer, to impose an obligation on the employer only to demonstrate that it is making or taking safeguards to ensure equal pay? I am referring in particular to the points where it goes wrong, namely the scaling-up of new workers and the negotiation of salaries. A discussion on this issue is currently taking place in the European Union. It goes more towards transparency for large companies. Do the initiators agree that it makes sense to wait for this discussion and then consider what this means for possible Dutch legislation, in order to avoid the accumulation of rules? Mr President, I will conclude. You will hear: the gender pay gap is certainly a real problem that we must address. The initiators are to be praised for their man- and woman-confidence and their bold attempt. However, as far as we are concerned, there are still a number of shortcomings in this proposal, which means that we are hesitant about the proportionality and effectiveness of this chosen direction of solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u50	I hear a lot of questions, including some good ones. I am curious to get the answers, which hopefully we will get next Sunday or at another time from the proposers. The question I would like to put to the CDA is generally about the step to place the burden of proof on the employer because it is particularly difficult for an individual employee. I mentioned the example of three years of litigation in order to successfully address it as an employee. Does the CDA see in that route a passable way to solve the problem, the pay gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u51	I am mainly on the route of transparency in that. I hesitate to reverse the burden of proof. I hear you and others mention the example of three years of litigation. Sometimes it takes a long time to straighten you out. That is something we see more often in this country; this case is not exceptional. But I think that almost all of us here have found that it is often unconscious choices or unconscious behavior of the employer. If we increase transparency and talk about it, I think we are already a long way off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u52	I do not think that there is much light between the intention of the proposers and... Of course, I think I have heard others call that too................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In my opinion, the law is meant to make the conversation take place and make it understandable. Would it be a passable way for the CDA to organise it in this way, as proposed by the proposers? Of course, there are all kinds of conditions, buts, questions and issues of elaboration that still have to be settled. I'm referring to the route where the employer makes it clear and then they look at how you can solve it together. If an employer then perseveres and says "no, I want to do so," there must be a consequence, because otherwise you don't have to make that appointment with each other. I would like to put that question to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u53	That's a fair question. I'm still hesitant about that. It starts with transparency. The question is, who are you gonna put it with? The employer will have to be transparent about this. I think "whoever claims, has to prove" and "you're innocent unless proven otherwise" are good starting points. We have a real problem and we have to be transparent in the pay gap, also because it often takes place unconsciously. Then I'd be happy to see that you can enforce that transparency in a certain way. But I still find it too unclear what the consequences are when we say: we are simply going to reverse the whole burden of proof. I would therefore like to await the response of the initiators before taking a final position on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u54	Thank you, Mrs Palland. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV Group. I'm curious. Yeah, everybody, huh? I call Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u55	Mr President, thank you very much. What a welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u56	Well!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u57	That's good. I hope that this will apply to the other PVV proposals as well. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb er nog wel een paar liggen.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u58	I'm all ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u59	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the initiative aimed at achieving equal pay for men and women. I want to thank the initiators for their work. The PVV Group understands the initiative. The unequal remuneration of men and women feels and is unfair, precisely because employers, as the initiators point out, are often unaware of wage differences themselves. Although the cause is difficult to determine, the various studies that come across show that the fact that women often work part-time and the wage negotiations play a role. So there's still a whole world to win here for the female employee. However, it is good to increase the employer's role in this, because while we see that the gender pay gap has narrowed in recent years and women are more often economically independent, the differences remain large. That has to change. Nevertheless, I have a number of questions. The initiative focuses in particular on employers in industry. How do the initiators view the role of the government itself as an employer in this whole? There too, we still see a large difference in pay between men and women. Shouldn't the government set an example? I'd like a response. Why was a system of fines chosen? Do the initiators also see something in a system in which trust plays a role and obtaining a certificate is seen more as a social objective and prestige element, in which it brings about a more intrinsic change? And in what cases is there an administrative fine in the fifth category? Mr President, I will conclude. Unequal pay for men and women for equal work needs to be addressed. I appreciate the initiative and I would like to await the response of the initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u60	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank the initiators, including Mr Jasper van Dijk, who is in the rear, and, of course, the spokesmen. I'll see you guys tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-tweedekamer-21.u61	As I said at the beginning, the answers to the questions will take place at a later date, of course in consultation with the initiators. There is a chance that this will be after the elections. For now, I would like to thank the initiators and, of course, the spokesmen. I'll close the meeting and see you tomorrow.
