ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35352, amendment of a number of education laws to clarify the citizenship assignment to schools in basic education. I would once again like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media to the Upper House. Only the first term of office will take place today. The debate will continue next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It seems so obvious: we raise our children to find their way in society as mature and responsible adults. Parents, schools and others play a role in this. It takes a village to raise a child. But it is not that obvious, at least not when we disagree on what is about mature, responsible, mature citizenship. What values are at the heart of this? What behavior do we find acceptable or reprehensible? These questions arise when we talk about citizenship, when politicians argue for standards and values, when we discuss fundamental rights, etc. At the time of the columning, each column had room to shape that own pattern of values, but after the depilation and secularization it became much more complicated and the search for generally valid values became stronger. This brought the German state law professor Ernst-Wolfgang Böckenförde to the much debated argument that the liberal secular state lives by the grace of conditions that he himself cannot guarantee. A multicultural society such as ours has no clear and self-evident value on which everyone is easily accessible. The state is very limited in its ability to formulate and guarantee these values, let alone enforce them. It is not for nothing that many discussions about these basic values are very soon about the relationship between the patterns of value, especially religious and secular ones. They are immediately pulled into the corner of questions about religious freedom, tolerance and Article 23. They are very quick to discuss what belongs in the public or private sphere, where religious value patterns and standards may have a place, where education takes place, and how far the government can penetrate these two spheres. This also makes it, if we are not careful, a power struggle that wants to determine that some values are universal and therefore public and that others, for example religious values, should remain secondary and subordinate. This may seem an overly philosophical reflection, but I think she explains why the legislative proposal clarifies citizenship assignments from lobbyists who either advocate a much more compelling requirement for schools to promote and shape certain values, or defend the constitutional right to education, in their own eyes and in their own minds. Both are the normative positions and both are often presented as a technocratic and legal procedure, as if a legally established requirement to contribute to active citizenship is the solution to intolerance or the death penalty for schools' own responsibility. The 2006 legislative text, which firmly anchored citizenship without determining very much about its content, fits into that tension field. The desire to tighten up this task is equally true, because the general wordings did not work, as the inspection says. With increased polarisation and intolerance in society, the need for clarification is increasing, even though at the same time everyone understands that education is not the solution to all social problems. The proposal before us therefore seeks to strengthen that citizenship mandate, and my group welcomes it. The wordings in the original text were cautious, as the content of citizenship is still described with caution: education promotes respect for and knowledge of the basic values of the democratic rule of law as enshrined in the Constitution and universally applicable human rights and freedoms. And: education develops social and social competences for the student to be part of and contribute to the pluralistic democratic Dutch society. This is not just the content of teaching; the competent authority also ensures a school culture that is consistent with it. This formulation is a search for balance between leaving space for different beliefs on the one hand and indifference on the other. Striking between compelling unitary sausage and a new compartmentalisation in which parallel societies can emerge, with all the consequences. The conditions of citizenship defined here seem to us to be the lower limit. If the basic values and universal rights enshrined in the Constitution are no longer the benchmark, then we will reach the limit of what can be tolerated in a democratic rule of law. That's what Karl Popper called the tolerance paradox. In an open democratic society, intolerance cannot be tolerated, because it is the axe at the root of that society itself. That is why my group welcomes the Van den Hul amendment, which adds what is so important now: the teaching of knowledge about and respect for differences in religion, belief of life, political orientation, origin, gender, disability or sexual orientation, as well as the value of equal treatment. Of course, that's just Article 1 of the Constitution. Technically, that doesn't add much. But respect for diversity does not appear to be self-evident at all. Religious diversity, sexual diversity and ethnic-cultural diversity are sometimes very controversial in different schools, subcultures and also political groups. And then it is good to emphasise that respect and understanding again. When we examine this proposal today, we look at the desirability, the legitimacy of the objective, but also at proportionality and enforcement. I do not mention the feasibility, because it is not very complicated in this case. I think I have said enough about the desirability. The legitimacy is a point. It is called into question in various objections raised, as if these criteria were too substantive for the government to violate, in particular, philosophical communities. Honestly, that doesn't convince us. Where the content of this bill is no different from the Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we do not believe it can be said that the government here loses its neutrality or is too morally binding. As far as the question of proportionality is concerned, we believe that this legislative proposal strikes a good balance between, on the one hand, the freedom of schools to form pupils in line with their own beliefs and social vision, and, on the other hand, the public interest in finding their way in multi-cultural society and also being protected from intolerance and discrimination at the school itself. In our view, enforcement is a matter of consideration. We would like to ask the Minister a question about this. If we see it correctly, these criteria will be maintained through monitoring the adequacy requirements and not through, for example, the core targets. Can the Minister indicate how this monitoring will prevent it from becoming a matter of a bit of ticking off, or otherwise of arbitrariness in the assessment? In what way can supervision contribute to improvement, precisely by entering into a critical dialogue on how schools themselves have incorporated this citizenship mission into their vision? In other words, does enforcement itself contribute to a learning organisation in the educational institutions? Often the pavlov reaction to proposals such as the one before it is the complaint of certain schools that they are being curtailed in their freedom. For example, we read that the Internet consultation asked how the fact that teachers should act in accordance with basic values and human rights relates to the educational freedom of schools and teachers. I fell off my chair. As if education contrary to human rights could be educationally justified at all. But I also fell off my chair because it asks questions that try to wipe out the desirable question of how we in this society deal with each other in all pluralism. What we need to discuss today, as far as I am concerned, is the question of what our children need to live in a pluralist democratic rule of law. This concerns, for example, the educational responsibility of schools, including their pupils who appear to be homosexual or transgender. It is a question of educational responsibility to teach students respect for people who think differently, religiously or secularly. Schools that feel threatened by this bill in their freedom, I would like to invite them to look in the mirror. Why on earth would they, I mean literally: in the name of the peace that we need in this society, want to have the freedom to undermine understanding and respect for who else is in their lessons, their declarations of identity or their means of learning? In the hope that this bill will contribute to a broader education of our young people to those who know themselves accepted, who accept others and take responsibility for themselves and society, I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u4	I have a question for Mr Ganzevoort, particularly on the aspect of respect and understanding. Totally once: respect and understanding should be applied to every school, around any theme. Mr Ganzevoort has mentioned a number of issues which are of course relevant in this debate. My question is whether Mr Ganzevoort agrees with me that schools from a religious background, for example, can and can take a minority view on certain issues. Let me take another subject, such as euthanasia or abortion. Can you take a different view on this than perhaps the mainstream current in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u5	It is always nice to mention an example that has nothing to do with the theme. The example euthanasia is, in my opinion, completely outside of the discussion we are having here, because it is about how you translate basic values into education. Perhaps Mr Schalk could choose a more appropriate example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u6	Perhaps then I can just take the example that Mr Ganzevoort himself mentioned, about homosexuality or diversity. Can a school also explain the minority position surrounding, for example, gay marriage to students?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u7	Mr Schalk knows that there is no such thing as gay marriage. He knows that for a number of years marriage has also been opened to two people of the same sex. That is different from a gay marriage; we do not know that in the Netherlands and that seems to me to be a good thing. The point he mentions is, of course, justified in itself. Can schools have their own vision? Yes, of course you can. But when he talks about minority opinions, I also think about the pupils in those schools who may have a minority view of the school. I have no problem with the fact that schools find something about homosexuality, relationships, marriage and so on. I'll ask if it's necessary to include that in your identity statement or otherwise. I wonder if you need it as a school to profile you at that point. I have often asked for this personally from schools that behave like this. But my main question is a whole other: how do you ensure that students who grow up discover that they are homosexual? We know that if those students grow up in an environment that can be, for example, an environment of a reformatorial nature, but also another one in which they talk in a negative way about their orientation, they therefore develop in a high percentage of cases all kinds of psychological complaints, up to suicide. Then what is your educational responsibility as a school? My question to Mr Schalk would be: let us not primarily discuss whether you can find something about marriage and how that might be ideal. Fine. But the real question is: how do we ensure that our children do not perish from our conflict of opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr Schalk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u9	First, let me correct something: I did say "the gay marriage," but I should have said "the so-called gay marriage," in order to better interpret it. Of course, I know that background; we've shared it with each other before. I was careless in my terms. With regard to the rest of Mr Ganzevoort's speech, I very much agree with him that schools should ensure that children feel safe and that this issue is properly dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u10	What is your question, Mr Schalk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u11	The question is, for example, it is one of the questions I still have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u12	Your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u13	Mr Ganzevoort mentioned the declarations of identity and, a little further on, the reformatory schools. But those I.D.s don't appear to be there. Maybe it's good to at least spell that out. If there aren't, they can't be part of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u14	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u15	Good. Let me not go into the question of whether they are there or not. I read them. Anyway, it's not necessarily about that. The essential question I asked Mr Schalk is another one. Why insist on the freedom of the school and not on the freedom of the child to grow up in a way that respects him or her and respects himself in a good and independent way? That is where the essential risk lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u16	Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u17	I thought I got a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u18	Yes, you will be able to answer them in your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u19	That's what I'm hoping to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. Then the PVV has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ruard is talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u22	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u23	Mr Ruard is talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u24	No. Mr. Ganzevoort. His name is "Mr. Ganzevoort." We don't tutoy here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u25	The Groenlinks spokesperson talks about "respectful," "balance sheet" and the values covered in that citizenship mandate. Tolerance must also be addressed. That's gotta be balanced. Where does the tolerance and balance for the GroenLinks spokesperson stop if these basic values undermine the democratic rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u26	I understand very well Mr Ton's question, as well as Mr Van Kesteren's question, and the PVV spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u27	It's "Mr. Van Kesteren."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u28	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. It was too easy. I think I've been very clear about that. Popper's tolerance paradox describes exactly this. Intolerance is the axe at the root of tolerant society. We find this intolerance in all kinds of places. That intolerance is found in some religious communities. We're gonna have to fight that. We also find this intolerance in some political movements that oppose some religious communities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u29	So you can endorse it when I say don't tolerate intolerance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u30	I will certainly endorse that, but I fear, I say to Mr Van Kesteren, that we do not entirely agree at the moment on where we see this intolerance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u31	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u32	We shall then come back to that later in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u33	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Sent on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that I can also express this contribution on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. In times of great uncertainty it is important that you can rely on shared values. The corona crisis shows how important these values are. At the same time, tackling the crisis puts pressure on fundamental values such as freedom, democracy, privacy, equality, trust and security. The PvdA and the SP see, with the government, that education has an important role to play in raising children's awareness of such values. And that is what the present bill is aimed at. The fact that the knowledge and understanding of democracy among young people is still insufficient at the moment proved that a large-scale study by the University of Amsterdam in March of this year showed that on average half of Dutch young people between 12 and 14 years of age in a democratic country do not consider it important or have no opinion on it. Our groups find this very worrying. We therefore understand the demand of educational institutions and the inspection of more tools to better organise and control citizenship education. For these reasons, we understand that the government feels the need to implement the citizenship mission to schools in basic education. Our groups therefore support the aim of the present legislative proposal to provide this clarification. However, we have doubts as to the extent to which this legislative proposal offers a practical solution to the problems mentioned above. That is why we in this Chamber, which has a feasibility review as its core task, would like to put a number of questions to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The political groups of the SP and the PvdA first of all note that the present legislative proposal is only a start for providing concrete guidance for educational institutions in the formulation of the citizenship mandate. Clear guidelines and building blocks, elaborated in learning goals and end-terms, are still awaited, because the government has not chosen to embed the bill in the ongoing curriculum review process. The Council of State also calls for attention to be paid to this. The Council of State's opinion was delivered a year and a half ago. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what progress has been made in the curriculum review process during that period. How does the present bill relate to the building blocks that Curriculum.nu has formulated? Our groups also wonder how much investment in education is needed for the curriculum review in general and for citizenship education in particular. The government states that education institutions, on the basis of the present legislative proposal, can also engage in the formulation of their own citizenship assignments without the developed citizenship curriculum. The feasibility of this raises serious doubts among our political groups. How does the Minister ensure that educational institutions and the inspection have the same idea about the application of the citizenship mandate? How do educational institutions gain sufficient insight into the way in which the inspection is carried out? Mr. Chairman. The role of the teacher is crucial in the implementation of the present legislative proposal. The PvdA and the SP have long argued in favour of improving the position of teachers in general. To quote Merel van Vroonhoven, teacher in training, "It is deafeningly silent about the shortage of teachers." That's why she asked a few weeks ago with a bright pink elephant on her bag for attention to the teacher shortage. Because deficits are often higher in places with greater chances of learning disadvantage, deficits also increase inequality. The shortage of teachers in both primary and secondary education can also have a major impact on the implementation of the present legislative proposal. This raises the following questions for the Minister in the PvdA and SP groups. Does he understand the concern that the shortage of teachers in the Netherlands could make sure that the citizenship assignment in some schools cannot be carried out optimally? If so, what effort can we expect from him in this area? The government itself indicates that achieving the citizenship mission for teachers will bring additional effort. And that while the workload has been the subject of attention for years. Over and over, teachers go out on the streets because they are in danger of succumbing. The result is that the performance in Dutch education has been falling for years. That is why our groups have the following question for the Minister on the workload of teachers. How does he ensure that giving citizenship education does not add to the workload? Unfortunately, the lack of teachers is not the only problem with the implementation of the legislative proposal before us. In addition to the demand for clarification, it has emerged in recent years that many teachers indicate that they need support in completing citizenship education. Earlier, the government reported that there are some support projects running. That sounds a little vague to us. Can the Minister explain clearly what kind of support projects this is about? Does he have any information on teachers' experiences with this support? Is that support sufficient, according to teachers? Related to this is the question of how students in teacher training are prepared for the provision of citizenship education. But even with sufficient teachers and good support, the problems in implementing the present legislative proposal have not yet been resolved. Teachers have doubts and fears about the discussion of active citizenship and social cohesion with their pupils, according to the recent survey of the Association of Teachers in History and State Institute in the Netherlands (VGN) and the Dutch Association of Teachers in Social Sciences (NVLM). "Some topics I don't deal with anymore. I have a family," a teacher writes. Does the Minister recognize these signals? If so, what efforts can we expect from him in creating a safe learning environment for providing citizenship education? Mr. Chairman. Our groups recognise that there is a certain tension between, on the one hand, the teaching of the basic values of the democratic rule of law as enshrined in the Constitution and, on the other hand, the freedom of education, which is described in the Constitution. The understanding of pupils of fundamental rights is closely linked to the way in which they are interpreted and discussed. For our political groups, freedom of education must not be invoked at the expense of the values of the democratic rule of law and its teaching. The government explains in the explanatory memorandum to the present legislative proposal that schools always keep the room for their own interpretation of specific values and standards that may arise from the religious, philosophical or pedagogical basis. For the PvdA and the SP, it is unacceptable for schools to speak out against universal values such as equality between men and women, gay and straight. We therefore welcome the amendment adopted by our Lower House colleagues, Van den Hul and Kwint, on the teaching of knowledge about and respect for diversity and equality and the promotion of a safe environment. For us, this represents a clear improvement in the legislative proposal. According to the PvdA and the SP, explaining the right to equality on the basis of certain standards and values could lead to a unilateral vision of citizenship. Does the Minister share this concern? Above all, we want to ensure that equal treatment in the Constitution is maintained in education. Does the Minister agree with us that the right of schools to choose and respect their own beliefs is restricted when it comes to condemning or excluding children with a certain sexual orientation? Mr. Chairman. Good education is much more than just learning cognitive knowledge. The years at school are also a period in which you develop your own identity in relation to others. At school, you learn to develop into a world citizen. Therefore, it is necessary that the curriculum also pays sufficient attention to who you are in relation to someone else. In order to tackle social problems such as racism, discrimination and exclusion, it is necessary that citizenship becomes more important in the educational curriculum. Therefore, the PvdA and the SP consider citizenship education to be an essential criterion in the assessment of schools by the education inspection. Citizenship education not only enhances knowledge about the democratic rule of law in which we live, but also results in more political involvement, as confirmed by research by educational scientist Edwin Slijkhuis last month. But does the present legislative proposal provide the right tools for achieving this goal? With that pressing question, I come to a conclusion. The main concerns for the PvdA and the SP in the present bill lie in the limited impact that the bill seems to have. If the legislative proposal, as the Council of State describes it, "does not set core objectives and final terms in relation to the citizenship mandate and does not provide the legal basis to formulate these core objectives and final terms," to what extent is the present legislative proposal the right means for the purpose of "giving schools a guideline for shaping that education"? We hope that the Minister will be able to take these concerns away from our groups and look forward with interest to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The present bill aims, among other things, to promote active citizenship in a targeted and coherent way, to teach respect for and knowledge of our democratic rule of law and of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Furthermore, the development of social and social competences, enabling them to participate in a democratic society. It is up to the authority to create a school culture in accordance with these values, in which students feel safe and accepted. Mr. Chairman. The purpose of this is to train children and young adults not only for further education or the labour market, but also for the functioning in our society according to the standards and values of Dutch culture. This bill did not just fall out of the sky. It is the resultant of our multiform society, a society of which a culture is now also part with the opposite standards and values as ours. A culture that even has its own legislation. With the arrival of Islam in the Netherlands, Dutch society was confronted with a culture that has no connection with our culture and therefore certainly should not become ours. Unfortunately, because of all the structural negative events that can be traced back to Islam, we are forced to deal with this bill today. The fact that the rights of another person are not respected by Islam is confirmed by the fact that Mr Wilders has had to fear for his life for more than 15 years because of criticism of Islam. But not only that, Mr. Chairman. The Jewish community in the Netherlands must once again fear threats and terror. But also people who are not straight, but gay or lesbian, have to fear when they express their orientation on the street. And that in the 21st century! I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. In what way does the Minister intend to ascertain that the citizenship mandate provided for in the present law is also carried out in schools with an Islamic basis? Professor Paul Cliteur, former colleague in the First Chamber, struck the nail on the head with his statement that we are again truly a free country like Geert Wilders, just like the Prime Minister can ride his bike back to work. And that is not possible, as long as there is no answer to the intolerance of Islam. The task of education is to teach young people the knowledge, skills and attitudes that enable them to commit themselves to our society and to participate in it. Unfortunately, to this day, Islam is trying to eliminate our free Western values. The atrocities that take place in the name of Islam recently came to us sharply again during Hamas' rocket attacks on Israel. Women and children were used by Hamas as shields in the fight against Israel, practices that did not even occur in us in the Middle Ages. We have brought this culture and mentality into the Netherlands. The main concern of the Dutch is the lack of shared standards and values. The Netherlands was always known as a tolerant country. This tolerance has been put under considerable pressure in recent years. We must enter into the debate on the causes of this, in which we must be honest about the conquest ideology that Islam is and the consequences this ideology will have in the long term for a free, democratic society. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State has noted that the education inspection can be enforced if education explicitly goes against the values of the democratic rule of law or if the school does not do anything about civic education. And that school management is accountable for the way in which they shape citizenship education, but not for the choices the schools make in it, whether or not to replace the so-called duty of care. The education inspection should therefore be cautious. And that's what Islamic education is up to. There can be little or no enforcement in practice. In fact, responsibility is placed on the school boards. Everyone is in solidarity with the courageous teachers who make everything talkable in the classroom, but unfortunately, sanctions do not come from these teachers who are threatened and even have to go into hiding. The freedom of education gives schools the freedom and space to give their own content to the citizenship mission, according to the demands of their philosophical basis. But citizenship education, which calls for resistance to the Dutch rule of law, is far from fulfilling this mission. It is therefore difficult if the educational inspection is reluctant to monitor the identity of the school. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with an important question about the feasibility and enforcement of the present bill. The implementation of the citizenship mission may be decided by the schools themselves. Can the Minister indicate how he can enforce in such supervision of the performance of the citizenship mission in fundamental education if it turns out that a school with anti-democratic ideas does not comply with that citizenship mission? So far in this period, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u38	We know the rather one-sided focus of the PVV on Islam. That is why I have only one question at the moment: does Mr Van Kesteren think there is an equal place for Islam and for the Islamic communities in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u39	In principle, it should be. Everyone, when you consider that Islam is intended to undermine our rule of law and you see it every day in practice, the PVV Group believes that you should be critical of it and that you should maintain it. You yourself said in your speech that we cannot be tolerant if values such as equivalence are not practiced. Well, that is the case in Islamic education, and that is also apparent in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u40	Mr Van Kesteren makes it a very solid thing: the Islam, everything and so on. My question is simple: is there room for Islam in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u41	Space for Islam, for an ideology designed to undermine our democratic rule of law and eventually overthrow it, is no place for the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u42	Mr. Ganzevoort, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u43	My question was: Islam as a whole. I actually hear Mr Van Kesteren say: I see Islam as this and there is no room for that. I note, then, that Mr Van Kesteren's contribution does not meet the basic values that we want to guarantee in this legislative proposal. And this is no longer a question, but a comment on my part: I hope that in future our education will lead people to understand better what Article 1 means than Mr Van Kesteren apparently does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u44	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to respond to that. The PVV Group is testing the citizenship mission and this ideology, which is becoming increasingly influential in the Netherlands, against the Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. So this islam doesn't fit into a Western society here, and that's evident from everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u45	Mr Verkerk, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u46	Indeed, I hear Mr Van Kesteren laying down a rather solid picture of Islam, when I look at the opinion of the inspection, which says, here I quote, 'the Islamic religion is used as a basis for learning respect and tolerance for fellow people in the world in which we move', and also that 'based on the Qur'an, the basic values of the democratic rule of law are being fulfilled'. So the inspection has inspected, and it comes to the conclusion that what you're saying doesn't come across the inspection at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u47	Well, then I would like to draw the Christian Union spokesman's attention to the fact that the Minister has already tried to sanction an anti-democratic trend at a school, which he has been flagged back by the Council of State, and is appealing against. So I wouldn't say one-two-three that what is claimed is practiced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u48	I continue to think it is very one-sided, because the inspection has controlled a lot of Islamic schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u49	That could be. However, it is clear that the implementation and practical implementation of the citizenship mission are not very clear. That can't be sanctioned. That cannot be maintained. That is a problem which I would like to draw attention to here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u50	Finally, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u51	I continue to find it extraordinary that Mr Van Kesteren mentions one example, which, by the way, still has a number of questions to ask, and then bases a general assessment on that one example. That is simply logically incorrect, but it is also completely contrary to the conclusion of the inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u52	I don't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u53	I would like to ask Mr Van Kesteren the following. He speaks of Islam as an ideology. But could Islam also be a religion? That's one. And then there's the second question. You oppose Islamic education, not only now but very often. Does that also mean that the PVV is against the freedom of education of Article 23 in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u54	I can only say that if the freedom of education undermines the basic values of a democratic rule of law... If these basic values are violated, it has little to do with freedom of education. I told you, don't tolerate intolerance. As a country, we have a duty to oppose an ideology that is intended to eventually overthrow that democratic rule of law. So does the PVV, and unfortunately as one of the few parties in parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u55	Can I conclude, then, that you say that action must be taken against such a school which threatens or denies the democratic rule of law? I think we'll be able to agree on that soon. But by doing so, you also recognise that there is a place for Islamic schools that take the democratic rule of law as their starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u56	Yeah, it turns out. In practice, anyone can establish an Islamic school. People have that right. Our task, including that of the PVV, is to state very clearly that as a society you have a duty to do something about it if the freedom given to schools to give substance to that citizenship mission leads to undermining our freedoms, our values. It is my plea, including against the Minister, to ensure that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u57	Finally, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u58	I think it is an important observation that you say that there is a place for Islamic education in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u59	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Then I give the floor to Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u60	Mr. Chairman. "Schools in foundational education bring knowledge and skills that pupils need for further education and participation in the labour market. At least as important is the social equipment. Citizenship is a core task of every school." This is how the explanatory memorandum to this bill begins, and these sentences are taken from the heart by our group. Our democracy is supported by its citizens. Freedom and equality must be lived by every generation. In our society, we often think that democracy and the fundamental freedoms and responsibilities associated with it are self-evident, but nothing is less true. Every democratic society must stand for its common values and principles and transfer them to a new generation. Moreover, that society must stand for those values that brought us the open and tolerant society that allows us to participate fully in society with respect for each other. In fact, this is, in other words, what has already been said by GroenLinks and Popper, for example. This also means that the government can set quality standards for citizenship education and that the inspection ensures that a school acts in all its expressions in accordance with the democratic rule of law. It also means that citizens must be able to rely on the government and that the government in the implementation of laws and rules is fulfilling that trust time and time again. And we all know that's what the government's been failing in recent years. There lies an important task for a new government and for the parliament. Citizens have a lot of concerns about supporting our democratic rule of law. In the 2017 report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau Citizenship Perspectives, citizens reported that the main concern of the Dutch is to live together: a lack of shared standards and values. They refer in particular to discrimination and respect, tolerance and intolerance, tolerance and intolerance. As a citizen, we all have an important role to play in establishing and maintaining common values. Schools can help and educate in line with what parents do, but parents should also uphold the uniform values of our society. The Netherlands is lagging behind in terms of citizenship education. Many Western European countries have defined in curricula the core values of our society in continuous learning lines from primary to secondary education. Although we laid down citizenship education in 2006 in the law, we hardly filled it in, which makes the quality very different and does not fill in in some schools, as the inspection noted several times. A number of schools consider a limited interpretation of the concept of "citizenship education" to be sufficient, and in doing so, as letters to us as senators once again showed, professions continue to appeal to the freedom of education, Article 23. We congratulate the Minister for having opted in this proposal for the broad formulation and completion of citizenship education. Every child must know his rights and obligations as a citizen and respect the rights of another. Our Constitution reflects the history of our values and the rules of our democracy. Every citizen must know the main thrust of it. This means that you teach children not only theoretically, but also from class 1 in primary education with them. In fact, the class is small democracy. Kindraden, youth parliaments, but also district councils with powers, citizen participation in culture and sport, can be very helpful and transfer values and standards. This should therefore be promoted. Taking into account the freedom of education, this means that every school, whatever its signature, should transfer Orthodox Jewish, Orthodox Islamic and Orthodox Christian schools, such as reformatorial schools, the development of respect for and knowledge of the basic values. But then what is the common core? It is worded as follows: the development of respect and knowledge of the basic values of the democratic rule of law and human rights, the teaching of the social and social competences that enable pupils to participate and contribute to our pluralist democracy. In doing so, each school must ensure a safe school culture, where each pupil can develop his individuality and identity and where that individuality and identity are respected. To this end, Article 8 of the Primary Education Act is amended. The school board ensures a safe school culture where the student practices the handling of these values. It has been added that learning to deal with diversity and accept it in society, including religious, philosophical, political, ethnic, sexual and gender diversity, is and remains an important task of schools. That addition is very important to us. Mr. Chairman. This law provides a framework for schools to comply with and to maintain the inspection. At the same time, the curricula have not yet been adapted. This will take some years and there are schools that believe that their task should be limited to the transfer of active citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u61	I would like to ask Mr Pijlman what the sanctions are for schools that violate these values and even in the citizenship mandate physically oppose those values.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u62	If you'll excuse me, I'll get to that. How will the inspection deal with this later? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State notes in the development history of the law that in the current law, schools have a great freedom in shaping the objectives of citizenship education and integration. Only if education explicitly goes against the values of the democratic rule of law or if the school does not do anything about civic education can the inspection continue. That is precisely why the implementation of this bill is so important. The general provisions of 2006 gave far too little guidance and framework. The Education Council and inspection often pointed it out. This law should provide schools with a clear framework for civic education and enforcement inspection. Is that sufficiently guaranteed? I will say more about it immediately, but I would like the Minister to take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u63	Enforcement, or at least the educational inspection, shows that it is very difficult to maintain these basic values in schools if it is found that these basic values are being violated. If the Minister wishes to do so, I commend him and try to do so, he will then be flagged back by the Council of State. In practice, therefore, it appears that if such a teacher is threatened, then he must report it. That is the only sanction that ultimately remains. Don't you think that's a little skinny? Isn't something else supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u64	I don't know exactly what you're talking about, but I'm getting to that. In preparation for this debate, I spoke with the Director-General of the inspection, precisely about this enforcement and asked whether the inspection could be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u65	I suggest you finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u66	That's what I'm suggesting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u67	To conclude, before we get any more questions that may still be addressed in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u68	Very good. I heard you say "rounding" but I'm not that far from it. I look at time comfortingly. Mr. Chairman. We are still waiting for the curriculum review to be completed in a few years' time. Not every school board seems to support the change that is now coming, given the letters we receive in which the boards constantly rely on the freedom of education. But that freedom is not limitless. The schools are free to give substance to it on the basis of their beliefs, but they must of course comply with the laws of our country. That is why this law is so important, and that is why I explicitly ask about the interpretation of Article 8 and how the Minister looks at that enforcement. The incidents at the Haga College and the Gomarus College, for example, prove that this is necessary. In those types of schools we still have a long way to go. It would adorn the domes not to oppose this new law, but to help these schools to properly implement the law. The government has responsibility for its responsibility for the system and thus for the implementation of other laws such as the AWGB. The school boards are also bound by this. They are also bound to implement Article 1 of the Constitution. And yes, there may be tension between the alleged freedom of Article 23 on this point and Article 1 of the Constitution, but one article is not superimposed on the other. They must be side-arranged, and to that end everyone must relate. If the curricula are to be completed further, I would imagine that the continuation of the Constitution in the ongoing learning lines could have a decisive role to play in basic and secondary education. The University of Utrecht has developed beautiful teaching materials for this purpose, also for primary schools. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u69	I come back to a piece of Mr Pijlman's speech from a few paragraphs ago. It's connected to the last part. He indicated that all schools must of course comply with the law. He also explicitly mentioned Orthodox-Islamic, Orthodox-Jewish and Orthodox-Christian schools. Later in his speech he mentioned the Gomarus and the Haga. The Gomarus is a reformatory school. That is a situation that has recently occurred and which retreated back to 2016. Has Mr Pijlman also seen that school act on that? Is that what he means? So that at the moment that it goes wrong, any school can make mistakes in that field must act?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u70	Yes, of course there must be an act. That kind of situation arises. I'm sure you've also read the interviews with young people who went to that school about what they've been through. That's not a safe school culture. Terrible things have happened. The inspection must, of course, point out, maintain and ensure that such risk schools comply with these laws. I find it extremely disappointing that this is not self-evident in schools that rely on religion and religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u71	I understand. I do not know whether we should go into that case, because there is a lot to say about that. It is being examined in detail by the Minister. By the way, the school itself has asked for an investigation. The investigation isn't here yet, but that's what we're waiting for. My conclusion is that there will always be schools, both reformative and other, public schools, perhaps, where things go wrong. We need to act on that. My question with regard to these reformatorical schools is: can such a reformatorical school be acted from everyone's convictions and be talked to students about how they look at parts of society from their religious beliefs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u72	Sure. This is actually the same interruption you did with GroenLinks. That can be done, but I think that these schools also have the responsibility, including to students, to stress that this is a minority position and that there is also another view of the majority of our society that has grown in generations. Each school must adhere to the standards and values we have defined in the Constitution and ensure that there is a safe school culture for every child.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u73	Mr Schalk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u74	Very well put by Mr Pijlman. That brings me to another question, a final question, of course. We're looking at those reformatorical schools right now, but you could also look the other way around. The change in the law actually looks two ways. One side is to promote respect and knowledge for the basic values, but also to teach knowledge and respect for the differences in religion. This must be done not only in the reformatorical schools, but also in those public schools. My question is whether this should be looked at in the same way by the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u75	Finally, Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u76	We had a debate on religious and educational education a few years ago. As you know, I am strongly in favour of teaching religion and education in public education in order to familiarise students with the diversity of religious views in our society. In addition, schools are given the opportunity to develop their own out-of-curricular offerings denominationally. I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u78	As far as I'm concerned, that applies to all schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u79	Please continue your argument, Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u80	Mr. Chairman. The Remkes Commission has made a plea for citizenship education in Low thresholds, high dikes. It's a wonderful report that I took once again. The Committee recommends that history and state institutions be made compulsory for all pupils and that social studies become an incomparable profession and thus become a full place in education. Will the cabinet accept these recommendations, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Are the teachers sufficiently equipped to teach citizenship and how are the students prepared at the educational academies and teacher training courses as future cultural carriers? Is citizenship a part of teacher training and are teacher training programmes sufficiently focused on this integral task? I'd like a response. Teachers are the cultural carriers. They are commissioned to educate and educate children and to transfer the core values of our culture. But we also know that the teacher's authority has been diminished and that he or she often feels an embarrassment of action to even discuss parts of the existing curriculum history and social studies. That's because students, and the parents behind them, sometimes treat them with little respect. Then too, it is important that the school should stand firmly behind the teachers, defend the norms and values and make clear to those parents what can and cannot be done. Parents are citizens and must respect the foundations of our society. Those who do not do so, from tradition or ignorance, must be called upon to do so. Is there also a new role for the inspection, I ask the Minister. I would like to discuss how we can strengthen the teacher's position, because it is not easy in some schools. We all know the articles about this. Mr. Chairman. Inspection also plays a major role in this education law. I already mentioned it. I understand that there is now a new supervisory framework for the inspection at the Lower House. The emphasis will be on basic skills, language and citizenship education in the coming years. We welcome that. The inspection intends to have the schools prepared for the law from the new school year with information and stimulation. From August 2021 onwards, enforcement of the conflict of the basic values will begin and from 2022/2023 onwards full supervision will start. Is the inspection sufficiently equipped and prepared to carry out this task properly? We expect the cabinet to regularly inform us about the progress and enforcement of the law, especially in the meantime that the curricula have not yet been delivered, about the implementation practice, the weather and the solutions. In particular, we would like to be informed about the risk schools of orthodox cut: Jewish, Islamic or reformatorical. The law must now be implemented loyally and also provide a safe learning environment for all pupils, so that situations at reformatorial schools, where children should not experience and develop their sexual identity, are definitely a thing of the past. The inspection may also examine the teaching materials used. Rejection of lhbti individuals in publicly funded schools is unconstitutional and also religiously questionable. I'd like a response from the Minister. So I ask the Minister how he intends to inform us about this progress and enforcement. That's it at first. We look forward with interest to the Minister's answers next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u81	I welcome Mr Pijlman's request on the follow-up and to keep up with developments. In our contribution on behalf of the SP, we have drawn attention to the feasibility and wondered whether it would make a difference. However, I am very curious to see when Mr Pijlman is satisfied with the report which I hope will be given by the Minister. And what frameworks should we use to assess whether the law actually makes a difference and is implemented in accordance with the purpose of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u82	I think you have put that very well yourself, I think we are in an intermediate phase. We are, of course, very curious to know exactly what is going to happen in this curriculum, how this continuous learning line will be created and whether this recommendation from Remkes, which I have just asked for, will be implemented. In the meantime, I think that is what you are asking for and that is what I and others are asking for with the inspection report on what happens. In the conversation I had, I was convinced that I was a little cynical about it and thought: that is inexcusable, that people really want to pay attention to this and make this a key issue. I think that's what our country urgently needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u83	I look forward, with Mr Pijlman, to a commitment from the Minister to inform us about this so that we can properly monitor its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u84	Thank you for your last question. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u85	I had another question for Mr Pijlman. I found his speech relatively weighted and calm so far, but at the end of his speech he indicated that he sees a number of schools as risk schools. For example, reformer education was thrown a bit into one heap. We have already mentioned that an incident from 2016 recently came out that was just not nice. That's just crystal clear, and the school acted on it as well. But does Mr Pijlman really think that, for example, reformarian education, which has been in existence for more than 100 years, is a risk to our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u86	No, I didn't say at all that this would be a risk to our society. But when I look at the issue raised at the Gomarus College, I think that orthodox-religious schools, when it comes to sexuality and identity, pose a certain risk, such as schools of certain other directions, pose other risks. I believe that we must monitor this and get reports on it. One has to abide by the law. That is actually all we are asking for. You can't possibly disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u87	I can't disagree with that either. Of course one has to abide by the law. However, the wording that an orthodox school might pose a risk in this area is different from the wording that Mr Arrowman used. Perhaps Mr Pijlman can take a look back at his own text, but I heard him talk about high-risk schools and risk groups. That's how it gets thrown into one big pile. I ask Mr Pijlman whether he is aware that, for example, vision papers have been published since 2008 in reformer education, which I have a bit more knowledge of. They were even offered to Minister Plasterk, who was very impressed at the time. They're working very hard on that. Should we not try to prevent this by saying that these schools are a risk after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u88	Thank you. Finally, Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u89	I'm not saying that every reformatory school belongs to a risk group. But I did ask the inspection: in which denominations are there risks? Then, like Orthodox-Jewish and Islamic schools, the reformatorical schools are called "Orthodox-Jewish" and "Islamic" in other areas. Don't forget that. At the same time, I know from you yourself, you let me read a note yourself, no matter how reformative schools are working on this subject. But it's about independent supervision of the inspection. And yes, then there are certainly risks to report in these denominations. I also noticed how the domes of those denominations turned towards us again. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Pijlman. In view of the time I am going to continue with the next speaker. I give the floor to Mr Doornhof, who will speak on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u91	Mr. Chairman. The strengthening of the citizenship mandate will raise the bar for schools to convey the basic values of our democratic rule of law. Those values must come back to education and school culture. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister immediately for the urgency he has set out in reply to our written questions. After the debate in the House of Representatives you might just think that the biggest problem of our education is that there are special schools asking for certain statements of identity. This, while almost all of the country of education knows that it is bad and possibly illegal for a school to set as a condition for admission that you have to agree that homosexuality is rejected. In fact this does not happen or hardly does. Mr Schalk was right to point that out. My group therefore does not have very good feelings about these declarations of identity. It only leads away from what this bill really is about, namely increasing the citizenship skills of Dutch students, precisely to provide a safe school culture to, for example, homosexual pupils, or to transgenders or pupils with other religions. It must be natural that minorities should be treated with respect. Students should also understand that interests and rights can clash. Mr. Chairman. Within such a school culture, there must be no place for violence and terrorism. My group also established a relationship with that terrible murder of the French teacher Paty. For the Dutch situation, the Minister stressed the importance of teachers being able to work in full security and freedom. The Minister writes, I repeat, here I would like to say that teachers should feel free to use the form of teaching and tone they consider desirable from the point of view of professional autonomy. In addition to these words, the government has also said that it supports education. The CDA Group believes that this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u92	I would like to come back to a point that Mr Doornhof has just made, and indeed Mr Schalk has just made, about the declarations of identity which would not actually be there, which would not contain such heavy things etc. I only grabbed one. This simply says: "We expect our parents to fully agree with this and to discuss it with their children, including their consequences." And in this declaration of identity, it says, among other things, that sexuality only fits within the marriage between one man and one woman and so on. Well, you can find that. But it also says, for example, "In our appearance, too, we let the distinction between man and woman be expressed in the creation." You can say that's an innocent sentence that doesn't matter that much. But for a transgender student, this is not an innocent sentence at all. I understand that it is not the main issue, but when we talk about citizenship, how do we ensure that a vulnerable group of students can be safe in those schools? We shouldn't say, from some sort of protection of those schools, that's not the point at all. No, this is what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u93	With what I have just said, I draw out exactly what I might have wanted to do less, namely to talk about those statements of identity again. Especially when it comes to rejecting homosexuality, we can agree. You and I do not have to debate this either. This is what you're doing. I just made the relationship. I was able to continue my argument. We're talking about what happened to Paty. We are talking about authority that is totally ignored, children who do not understand democratic decisions in our rule of law. Mrs Sent rightly said that students answered that they do not care if they think it is important to live in a democratic rule of law. Those are the points that really matter in this bill. Then there's a fuss about those identity statements. Your colleague Van Schoonhoven has even published about it. He said: what you do is to make the people who think worldly contrary to the more religious people. You're achieving exactly the opposite of what you're actually trying to achieve with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u94	My question is whether Mr Doornhof agrees with me that we should strive for it, and whether this bill does it enough in his view, that we should spread these citizenship values widely, that they are about how we look at society, but that they are also about how we deal with each other at school and how we deal with students there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u95	A brief answer, Mr. Doornhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u96	That is at the heart of the proposal. That is, of course, what this is about. I'm gonna come back to what people think about that sometimes. Mr Van Kesteren has referred to this for a reason. If I say it very flatly, there have of course been simply misfits from the education inspection. He tried to tackle Islamic schools, especially the culture within such a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u97	Thank you. You are therefore replying in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u98	I couldn't. The legislative proposal that we are discussing now is precisely about not having such examples anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u99	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u100	I will, Mr. Chairman. Then I have to say even less about urgency than I have just done in the direction of Mr Ganzevoort. It is true that, of course, teachers and school directors are always confronted with almost a glorification of criminal, violent behavior. You also have role models that totally set the wrong example. That is why we welcome the fact that I come to a final point on urgency: this bill gives schools the duty to work on knowledge and skills, even more so than in the past, in the area of the democratic rule of law. You can take care of schools on that, too. Not for nothing, the Minister pointed out the case law which was not in favour of the inspection. Let me say it very carefully. Mr. Chairman. I did say in the written questions on behalf of my group that it also depends on reciprocity. It is also primarily a question of the responsibility of pupils and their parents themselves. If you as a government make tough demands on education, then schools in turn can ask for the cooperation of students and their parents. If it doesn't work, you should be able to perform. In extreme cases, you also want to be able to suspend and remove. The compulsory education is, however, a complication. Now, in response, perhaps rather neutral, the Minister has written that it is up to the school to take such measures of order or not and that these measures may affect the citizenship mission. How does the government view the position of such a school? He tries to do everything he can to get a student into the democratic state of law, but from him or her or the parents only opposition is received. How does the government then assess the obstacle which may constitute compulsory schooling to adopt strict measures of order? In our country, it is just arranged that you are punished after criminal offences and there is also separate education, but what if there are schools with students who simply have no ears to what they bring forward? Are there no additional facilities needed to be able to take action against such pupils and their parents where necessary? Schools are now just really holding hands in their hair. It is important that the education inspection does the enforcement in a careful manner. Often it is pretended to be some sort of mathematical exercise, whereby you turn off clear performance against a clear measuring bar. The reality is, of course, very different, especially when you talk about the citizenship mission. The Education Council writes for a reason: "In citizenship education, the balance between freedom and public care can easily be disrupted. "Citizenship education is rapidly affecting pedagogic beliefs and beliefs." Mr. Chairman. In this context, the Council of State's warning is also to be taken seriously, namely that the inspection will take a self-interpreted course. The government now also recognises that there is such a normative component to the general citizenship mission. The government also promises restraint from the inspection, where it is concerned with the implementation and handling of the citizenship mission. In this context, the government also attaches importance to the research frameworks. Mr Pijlman has already mentioned this. On the one hand, the frameworks must be used to respect the freedom of education. The frameworks can also help to check whether school culture is actually in line with the democratic rule of law. From the reformatorical education it is said that the concept of the frameworks is rather abstract. The question to the Minister is how he assesses that. The CDA Group strongly asks the Minister to keep his finger on the pulse in any case when it comes to the promised restraint of the inspection. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u101	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I now give the floor to Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u102	Mr. Chairman. Schools themselves have to work on shaping their citizenship vision. They choose where to place the emphasis within the framework of the proposed law. The VVD Group believes that this fits in with the freedom of education and with the school's own responsibility. That appeals to the VVD Group. The VVD Group welcomes the legislative proposal, because the group believes it is important that everyone who goes to school in the Netherlands is taught knowledge and respect about our democratic rule of law and about our democratic pluralism of society. Freedom and equality are not self-evident. It is important for all of us to learn about it at a younger age. The bill also contains an obligation on the competent authority to ensure a culture at school that corresponds to the basic values of our democratic rule of law. The current legislative proposal is more binding than the current law, allowing enforcement. The VVD Group believes that this is important for teachers who need to be able to do their work in terms of freedom and security. It is important to provide the children with a safe environment. The fact that this is not self-evident is evident not only from the attack on Samuel Paty, but also from recent unacceptable threats of teachers in the Netherlands, who are doing nothing but their work. If this law contributes to any degree to the security and freedom of teachers and children, then the VVD Group is in favour. That is a question for the Minister. Does this law contribute to the freedom and security of teachers and children? Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group has a number of other questions for the Minister. How is it measured whether schools comply with the law? Under this bill, can action be taken against a school that does not comply with the citizenship mandate and provides anti-democratic or anti-integrative education? In other words, can this bill adequately deal with schools that undermine our rule of law? One final question to the Minister. Doesn't the Minister agree that it is part of the citizenship mission that the textbooks are also in line with the current spirit of time? Then I'm referring to the teaching material in which women are still not ministers or surgeons. I would also like an answer and a vision from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u104	I would like to ask Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse what she thinks about the enforcement of the citizenship mandate in practice and whether the VVD also has options for the Minister how this enforcement can be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u105	First of all, how neatly you pronounce my last name in all its facets. That is precisely a question I have to ask the Minister, because the VVD Group also believes it is important to take action against excesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u106	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Verkerk, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u107	Mr. Chairman. This is my first debate as a new spokesman for the Christian Union on education. Honestly, it feels a bit like a maiden speech, but I have every confidence in it. Mirjam Bikker, my predecessor, said to me: "Maarten, you are lucky. OCW is the best commission in the entire First Chamber." I think she's right. And as I've experienced it so far, this is and will be a fascinating debate. I shall begin with two general comments. First of all... In the preparation of the debate, I read the report on Education Freedom and Public Care of the Education Council on Article 23 Gw. That report is from December 2019. The Education Council shows that there are inherent tensions in this article. In short, the tension between the freedom of education and the robustness of the government. According to this report, these tensions are also on the subject of today's debate. I have also wondered myself, precisely as a philosopher "how do I feel about that tension" and then in the context of increasing pluralism and growing social contradictions. I honestly don't think you can really massage away this kind of tension. They're too fundamental for that. Maybe you should cherish them. Cherish in the sense of: enter into conversation about those tensions and connect people and parties around the subject that raises tensions. Also cherish in the sense of: recognize that tension is there and come to the conclusion over and over again that you cannot really lift that tension. Let us be aware that this tension is also about parents: parents who want education for their children in accordance with their standards and values and their vision of education. In the view of our group, it is then ultimately a question of finding a position which, in order to put it paradoxically, on the one hand transcends tensions but on the other, is constantly creating tensions. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, it strikes me in this debate that some parties pay a great deal of attention to the relationship between this law and Article 23 of the Constitution, on freedom of education, while others focus on the relationship with Article 1 of the Constitution, the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination. This observation shows, I think, how broad and how deep our debate is. All these angles are needed to understand what it's about. This observation is also an illustration of the statement of the Council of State: "At the same time, it goes without saying that Article 23 of the Constitution should not be seen in isolation, but in the context of constitutional order and fundamental rights catalogue as a whole, and should be interpreted in that light." (page 5, Opinion and Nader Report) I think this observation is very important for this debate. We will only get further if we want to talk about Article 1 of the Gw and Article 23 of the Gw. And of course also about Article 6 Gw (freedom of religion and belief) and about Article 7 Gw (free speech). And so on. In this context, I would also like to point out the debate we had in this Chamber some time ago with the Minister of the Interior on the extension of the anti-discrimination grounds of Article 1 of the Gw. In that debate, on behalf of my group, I showed that the addition to the grounds disability and sexual orientation is also in line with the values of our party; values inspired by the gospel. Mr President, I now come to the draft law. The Remkes Committee notes in its report on our parliamentary system a splendid report, one of its colleagues said that our democracy is under threat both from the inside and from the outside. The Committee therefore calls for a strengthening of democratic knowledge and skills. Our group supports the Minister's plea. Our group also supports the committee's conclusion that this draft law is a step in the right direction (page 250). That is why the Christian Union Group welcomes this bill. Mr President, if I understand correctly, the Minister is trying in this law to do as much as possible justice to both the freedom of education and the concern of the government. The Minister does this by prescribing what needs to be done and by giving the schools the freedom they want to do. It is defined by words such as: promoting active citizenship and social cohesion, with education focusing on knowledge and skills. But it is also a school culture that does justice to the basic values of the rule of law and must be characterised by security and acceptance. On the subject, the Minister stresses that the citizenship mission offers scope for its own interpretation. I quote the reply: 'The freedom of education means that special schools can organise education in a way that fits their identity and that they can express that identity in education'. Our group appreciates the way in which the Minister deals with the aforementioned tension around Article 23 and how he is trying to find a new balance. At the same time, it should be noted that this new balance sheet raises questions and perhaps new tensions. In the explanatory memorandum (page 18), the Minister stresses that the legislative proposal requires a common core, namely the promotion of knowledge of and respect for the basic values: freedom, equality and solidarity. These are very nice values. And yet our group's question is: where did the Minister come up with these three basic values? They are not in the text of the law or in this connection in the Constitution. I'd like a response from the Minister. In the reply, the Minister says that it is inevitable that these concepts will bring "some room for interpretation" and the Minister adds: "especially because they must always be seen in the context of the school." I am concerned with the words 'only room for interpretation'. And let me make that concrete on the basis of the word "freedom." In Christian education, this value will be linked to being created in the image of God and recreated in the image of Jesus Christ. In a classical-humanistic school, freedom will be linked to reasonable ethics and human rights. And in a more postmodern school, the freedom of the individual child will be central. Our group's question is: do the words "only room for interpretation" include all these different meanings of the word "freedom"? And I could mention more examples where we can find other nuances. A similar reasoning can be given for the concepts of "equivalence" and "solidarity." I'd like a response from the Minister. Similar questions can be asked with regard to the values mentioned which should characterise a school culture and which will be monitored by the inspection. And when I read it, I have to say honestly, I thought: these are beautiful values. But the question is: how did the Minister get that list of values? Is that list complete? Et cetera, et cetera. And if you look further, one of those values is "autonomy." Well, if there's a concept there are many different interpretations about, that's the term "autonomy." Let me give you another example of when you go to Christian schools. They will discuss it from the idea of God the Creator. Humanist schools will place a strong emphasis on rational ethics and also on a shared vision of life, while more postmodern schools will put emphasis on individual, perhaps hyper-individual, choices of postmodern people. I'd like a response from the Minister. In several places in the reply, the Minister states that the inspection will "be cautious" with regard to the content of the citizenship vision and the beliefs underlying it. Our group understands what the Minister is trying to say with these words: here again he is seeking a balance between, on the one hand, the protection of freedom and, on the other hand, the responsibility of the government. I have noticed that the various domes, and I am thinking of the Protestant, Catholic, Reformed, Islamic, and also the free education community, are concerned about this concept of restraint. And I can basically imagine something about that. At a time when the values and vision of an inspector are more or less in line with the identity and values of the school, it is easier to be in the shoes of that school and to be "retardant." But at the moment when their own values are sanding with the values of the school, that will be a lot more difficult. And then it is not at all about which vision an inspector has or which school is visited; this is true in width. That is why I also have the question to the Minister: is there any evidence that the inspection is having difficulty with this restraint? And how are inspectors going to do that "sanding" when their own values are sanding with those values of the school they visit? And is that also made negotiable, possibly among themselves but also with the school itself? And in that case, how can an inspector still be "inspiring"? I'd like a response from the Minister. And perhaps also in general terms: how can the Minister remove the concerns of these schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u108	You talk about the values of the school versus possibly the values of the inspection, but the generic values are described. The school has to relate to that. The inspection will check that out. So I didn't quite understand what your question meant. Or do you say: I think that those generic values, to which everyone should relate, are not properly described?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u109	No, I'm not saying that. I would like to thank Mr Pijlman for this question. In the end it is about... I take those three values: freedom, equality and solidarity. I think these are basic values. From my deepest conviction, I can also choose those basic values, but we have to realize that there are some kindly expressed differences in the way these values are explained in different traditions. Then the question is whether an inspector is flexible enough in his head to think along with a school that explains it in a way that the inspector says: this shines with my views.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u110	I'm just trying to get it through. Shouldn't you start from what is in the law and take that interpretation, starting from the fact that every school lives through and fills in those texts, and fills them in? I guess you don't have to be very afraid that the inspection is totally trying to impose its own opinion on the school. I don't know these examples either. The inspection will reflect the school's common values.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u111	I was just talking about some interpretation space. That was also a question for the Minister. I gave an example of a few types of schools. Are they underneath? I agree with you that there is a lot of commonality in the interpretation. The only point is whether the inspection has sufficient sensitivity to accent differences, which can sometimes be large. I'm not judging the inspection here. I'll ask the Minister. Finally, Mr President. The Christian Union election programme 2021-2025 has the title: Choosing what really matters. I think the Minister knows that title too. In this programme, the Party expresses its view that it is very important for schools to teach children the foundations of the democratic rule of law. That really counts in our party's vision. It is also of the opinion that I refer again to the Remkes Committee's report that the citizenship mission of schools must meet certain quality requirements and that the government also has its own responsibility. The first impression of our group is that the Minister has found a nice, new balance, a balance which can only be maintained if we constantly identify the tensions that exist and make these tensions negotiable. I'd like to close with a personal note. My parents and grandparents belong to what Abraham called Kuyper: the kleyne luyden. And then "kleyne" with a Greek y, and "luyden" with you and Greek y. They were politically conscious and shaped their own social responsibility. I was raised in that tradition. I was educated, first at a school with the Bible, then a Christian mulo and later a reformatorical hbs. The values of equality, freedom and solidarity have been given to me. For example, I have been formed into an active citizen and have been challenged throughout my life to contribute to social cohesion. The group looks forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u112	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u113	Thanks to Mr. Verkerk for his wonderful input. He drew attention to potential differences in the interpretation of values, on the part of the schools and on the part of the inspection. This is a potential problem in the implementation of the legislative proposal before us. I am very curious what he needs to be reassured that there is no light in the interpretation, that it is feasible and that there are no differences of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u114	I have read the report of the inspection on the citizenship mission, at least whole pieces of it. My first impression was: that is balanced. So I put this to the Minister with a positive question. What struck me is that all those domes I have mentioned, which, in addition, account for more than 60% of our schools, brought out a concern. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to that concern. If I ask for a response, it's not because I have the impression the inspection can't. But when I hear that concern expressed and the way it is done, I think it would be a good idea to take that concern to the Minister as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u115	Mr Verkerk talks about the increase in pluralism in society and social tensions that we must cherish. You need to connect in there. The role of the inspection will then be to make it negotiable and to inspire schools. My question to Mr Verkerk is whether he also has an idea about the enforcement of the law. Does he have any ideas as to what enforcement should consist of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u116	I didn't tell you to cherish social contradictions. I told you to at least make them negotiable and that pluralism is a fact. That's right, I didn't talk about the way the inspection does this. I referred to the inspection report and my first impression was: that is a balanced report. This is about knowledge and skills and culture. Well, knowledge is relatively easy to test. Skills make it a little harder. And with culture, it's even harder. Reading the report, my impression is that the inspection has these competences in principle. If you have any doubts about this, I would say: ask the Minister a question about it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u117	If I understand correctly, Mr Verkerk says that he sees more in communication with the schools, in tempting the schools to come to different choices than in the possibility of the inspection to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u118	That's not mutually exclusive. You can maintain it in a dialog way. I'm gonna see how this bill is set up. The school itself has the opportunity to fill in how it fulfills the citizenship mission. This concerns knowledge, skills and culture. In my opinion, an inspector is very well able to ask for an explanation of how one does it, also in conversation with teachers, with parents etcetera etcetera. Dialogue is not at all in tense relation to enforcement. It is particularly important for this type of thing that dialogue should take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u119	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u120	Last question, Mr President. Can you imagine that there are teachers in schools who put the strategy you are proposing under the category of "kicking and wet" rather than under enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u121	I can imagine anything. There are people who have a certain view. Partly I understand that, because there are people who want to have a very strong government. But with these kinds of subjects, there's tension and you can't get it out. That's what you need to discuss. I hope that we will train and train teachers in such a way that they will be able to discuss these tensions, including with the inspection, so that they do not feel that they are being hijacked and kept wet, but that the law is being enforced, as it should be: with restraint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u122	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I now give the floor to Mrs Nanninga. It will speak on behalf of the group of the same name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 1969, the famous British art historian Kenneth Clark is on the banks of the Seine. Behind him is the Notre-Dame of Paris and he presents the first episode of his series Civilization. While looking back at the cathedral he speaks the memorable words: What is civilization? I don't know. But I think I recognize it when I see it. More or less analogous to this, we could approach citizenship. What exactly is good citizenship? It is difficult to define, but it is easy to see: the man or woman who is active in association life, has a decent job, pays a decent tax, abides by the traffic rules, is accommodating if possible and decisive if necessary. These are just some traits that we can recognize as good citizenship. Strikingly enough, things like football with memorial wreaths, squandering police with street furniture or sharing conspiracy theories on Twitter are not in that list. So we do have some sort of radar for the distinction between desirable and undesirable behaviour in the context of citizenship. Whether that is the same as good citizenship may not make much difference in practice. The Minister clearly sees this differently. In view of the explanatory memorandum to this draft law, good citizenship is the result of apparently a lot of lessons on diversity and tolerance. It is a fashionable misconception in our view that diversity and tolerance lead to good citizenship. It sounds good for the executive who wants to be acclaimed on Radio 1, but the reality is that we have been so tolerant that education about the Holocaust, cartoons, sexual education, especially about homosexuality, in too many schools in our country is difficult or no longer possible. It is a negative side effect of the much-famous diversity, but good citizenship does not have much to do with such diversity. It also suggests that the Minister writes down, and I quote: 'In the practice of education, this means that it is central to enabling pupils to show mutual respect, to be tolerant of those who think otherwise and to contribute to the creation of an open, peaceful, democratic society in which the basic values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity come into being in connection with each other'. So far so good, I'm gonna keep going. "This does not include, for example, a culture in which people involved in education are satisfied with a unilateral recourse to classical freedoms, but that education promotes that these freedoms can only survive if these freedoms are fulfilled with respect for the limitations of those freedoms due to the freedoms and rights of others." We do not think that this is so encouraging for teachers who today are silent on certain issues. It does not seem to be the intention to call on what is then referred to as "classic freedoms." Let me get this straight. That is my question to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I also read quite a bit about diversity in the explanatory statement. It's incredibly fashionable. We call something diverse and inclusive and then you get subsidies and a sticker from the inspection. But, in the context of citizenship education, there is a mistake behind this. It doesn't start with diversity. Good citizenship is a prerequisite for a peaceful, diverse, pluralist society and not the other way around. One view about what would make a good citizen of the Netherlands is that someone shares and supports a particular culture... an amalgam of rights, duties, customs and history................................................................................................................................................ That is also the view of my group. The key to this is good education in history and social studies, fair education in history and social studies. In short, knowledge transfer as an inspiration for good citizenship. One-sided education about the white Western European as the only and eternal perpetrator of slavery, as is now the rogue in my home city of Amsterdam, taking shape in a heavily subsidised museum that school children will have to go to, is just as undesirable as completely ignoring cultural diversity in 2021. An honest story about our past and our rule of law means that we teach our children about all kinds of subjects, including subjects that are offensive to some students. We are not going to sweep them under the carpet because of the 'all too one-sided appeal to classical freedoms', as the Minister calls it. We speak openly and honestly about slavery, of course we do so, but also about the Holocaust, about mockery, about sexuality, about all kinds of subjects that play in our society or history. We do not necessarily solve this problem with this new citizenship law because it is clearly difficult for large groups of people in society to do so. This draft law in itself is not bad at all, but in view of the explanatory memorandum, it seems to be somewhat detached from the reality that many teachers experience in schools in the major cities in particular. Certain subjects are becoming increasingly difficult to discuss. Making diversity a guiding principle does not solve that. My group is concerned that students will soon be taught about the blessings of somewhat abstract and general fundamental rights, while education on more sensitive subjects is more difficult to achieve. As far as we are concerned, this is a contradiction. At the same time, we also understand that a new curriculum is under way. Can the Minister take away our concerns about this? Has the undesirable tabooisation of certain subjects been taken into account in that new curriculum? That would make this bill considerably more attractive to us. Then there's another objection. The focus on diversity is an excellent marker for the contemporary enemy of free thought and the free word, the woke ideology. According to this ideology, diversity and equality are goals in themselves and extremely important. So important that a diverse and different position on extreme equality and victimism leads to excommunications. The disease has started in America, but is now also present in our politics, not to mention wokness in our education. For the time being, this madness is mainly reserved for universities, although this law is about primary and secondary education. Should the explanatory statement in this form become the basis for the checklist with which the inspection takes place, we will still have a lot of diversity, obviously at the expense of classical freedoms such as the free word. Because that's what we have to be careful about, that's how we read. Typical woke-thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u124	I have a question for Mrs Nanninga about diversity thinking. Do you not agree with me that inclusiveness is often a different word for diversity in schools? That you feel at home in a school, even though you're sitting there with all kinds of different kids with different backgrounds? That it is very important for every child in itself to feel at home in a group, just like we do here in the Upper House?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u125	Yes. I fully agree with Mrs De Blécourt. Only diversity is a fact. That's exactly my point. Good citizenship is required if we are to deal with it properly. It's not the other way around. Diversity is not an end in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u126	I don't think it says that either. It says there's citizenship assignment that teaches you that you're involved with everyone and that you treat everyone equally and look at each other the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u127	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u128	Well, if we agree, I'm okay with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u129	Well, I can reassure Mrs. De Blécourt. That's my point. It's not about the content of the bill, because it's pretty good. It is about the completion and the checklist that are, as it were, given to the inspection, in which an accent is chosen. I don't see the accent that makes your kids resistant to things they find offensive or nasty. I do not want to say that teachers or students have to hurt each other all day. But I miss that. That is also my question to the Minister. You are confronted with things that are contrary to your faith or the group to which you belong. You're gonna get the wrong joke once. My group believes that there is not enough focus on this in the accompanying letter in particular. The bill is not such a crazy story, we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u130	Finally, Mrs De Blécourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u131	I think we'll agree. If I understand Mrs. Nanninga correctly, she also means bullying. You have to be a little resistant to bullying. I don't mean that bathin'. I mean, you have to be able to defend yourself in this society. I think you and I can agree on that. But it has to be made negotiable. On the other hand, we must all strive for a society in which everyone belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u132	If I may respond, Mr. Chairman. To speak to Mrs Kaag: here we separate our ways a little bit. No, I'm not talking about bullying. I am talking, for example, about discussing cartoons about religion. That's not bullying, that's just an opinion or a cultural aspect that some people experience as very annoying. Of course, bullying is out of the question. I think that is an important difference in nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u133	Then I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u134	My group has doubts about the implementation of this law, which does not necessarily resolve the real problems of citizenship in our country. We would like to hear from the Minister a reflection on the strong woke content of the explanatory statement and on the amount of room that this proposal leaves for the traditional freedoms that JA21 has a high priority, in particular those of the free speech. We also share the widely shared care here, and I have heard it from GroenLinks to the PVV about the enforcement of the principles and goals, which in themselves, at the heart of the proposal, are beautiful. By analogy with Kenneth Clark's statement on civilization, I have one final comment. Although we have not come to a definition of good citizenship, it is clear to my group that it is difficult to recognise it in the explanatory statement and in the implementation of this law. We therefore hope for further clarification by the Minister, because the proposed amendments seem to us to be desirable and fair in themselves, but are they also feasible and are they not too unilateral? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u135	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Then I give the floor to Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with a disclaimer. In the personalities of our Chamber it is noted that I am chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Christian Reformatorical School Community Driestar/Wartburg. I thought it best to mention that before I begin my speech. That's how we agreed. Today's children are the citizens of the future. That is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is always focused on good and sound education. Not only because it is so important for the future of our country, but also because it fits the mission that parents have. Parents take that assignment very seriously. In the churches in my constituency, they even take an oath on it. They solemnly promise at the baptism of their children that they will teach and teach them or teach them. It's a beautiful formulation. It's a promise they take very seriously. This applies not only to religious education, but also to all other aspects. This religious education has consequences for the whole of education and for everyday life. That is why my group is so grateful that we in the Netherlands have an education system that is anchored in the freedom of education. We may therefore cherish Article 23 of the Constitution. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats therefore has no objection to the attention paid to citizenship in education. However, my group is concerned about a citizenship mission which could very easily be transformed into a citizenship force, or into a definition of what could and could not be thought, said and done in classrooms. Unfortunately, the handling of this bill has not removed the fear of my group. When I see how the bill has been dealt with in the House of Representatives, when I read how the written treatment is aimed at steering on this issue... Just now it was about declarations of identity. I have also seen them, but the Minister has clearly indicated that the declarations of identity referred to are no longer on the agenda. Anyway, it's a very annoying feeling, I'm telling you quite honestly. I must say that I have also seen how the Minister's well-meaning answers were misunderstood in the debate in the House of Representatives. How he would almost have to pass through the dust because he shaved along the edges of what part of the Chamber considered appropriate. I have noticed how carefully the Minister has then tried in this Chamber to hold on to all possible questions in writing every time it is almost a mantra to say the following. The competent authority must ensure a school culture in accordance with the basic values of the democratic rule of law. These are basic values of freedom, equality and solidarity. I hear a bit of the echo of the slogan from the French revolution in: liberté, égalité, fraternité. Freedom is still paramount. Equality has been exchanged for equivalence, and rightly so. And solidarity has supplanted the brotherhood, perhaps because, unfortunately, there has been very little of that brotherhood over the centuries. But, Mr President, the impact of these values may vary enormously. Take freedom, for example. For some, this means a boundless self-development, while others may see very great risks in it. Certainly, students should be told what rights there are in the Netherlands. But schools and students are allowed to have an opinion on these rights and to promote them. I am thinking here of legislation on divorce, abortion or euthanasia, which is not the subject of this bill, but I take it as an analogy. There must be room for minority views, which should also be given a place in the public domain. Can the Minister confirm that students should know what the rights are in the Netherlands, but that the school cannot be asked to encourage them to use them? The written examination of this bill has not made it any more positive for my group, as I have just said. Several parties have asked questions, including about Orthodox-Christian and Islamic education. In addition, the themes that have long been refuted around the debate in the House of Representatives, such as the statements of identity in which homosexual pupils are removed, were actually taken blindly. These declarations of identity are not being used, at all or for a long time no longer in schools. Whether the Minister agrees that children should not be excluded from a school based on their faith, need for care or parents' income. Those last elements, need for care and income, make sense. Nor are they protected by Article 23. But religion is an explicit part of our legislation. It is not for nothing that this has been the case for a hundred years and it is only last year that we have had an extension of the possibilities of a school foundation, and we are assured that this does not mean that faith and religion would suddenly be or become of different significance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u137	The honourable Member, let me put it mildly, nuances everything again and says: well, these declarations of identity are no longer at all on the agenda. But let's leave it out for a while. Haven't you also read the experiences of students from reformatorial schools? They went back over the years, what they've been through when they wanted to come true for their sexual identity. You also know the Minister has had a lot to say about this, when it was about the democratic rule of law, what happened at the Haga Lyceum? Then you cannot say: well, there is not so much going on, and we are allowed to defend that freedom. I would have preferred a more fundamental view of the SGP in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u138	Mr Pijlman is quite right to point out the incidents he mentioned. In fact, I find what happened at the Haga Lyceum of a completely different order from what was in the articles recently about the Gomarus College. In my interruption to Mr Pijlman, I also pointed out that schools should be reminded of this when they are doing that wrong, wrong or wrong. And schools pick that up, too. A little background knowledge in that circle assures me that will happen. That's one. Two: I am not playing down it, but in the answer the Minister made on page 19 of the letter, because there was also an explicit demand in the written round for these situations to be clearly stated that those declarations of identity that were at the time are no longer there. An identity profile is now being used. I would very much like to spell that out here, and that is why I am devoting a little more words to it than I should have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u140	But, Mr President, I do not do so in the spirit of trivializing the problems. I am doing this in the spirit of correcting what is happening in the media, not that we should blame them for it, and it has been discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u141	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u142	All these serious declarations of identity have, of course, been discussed extensively, and fortunately they are gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u143	I give now...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u144	I ask the Minister once again to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u145	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u146	It's reassuring that you say they're "happy" gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u147	Yeah, I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u148	That also distances you from what happened there. And certainly, there are also differences between what happened in one direction and in the other. One was about the basis of the rule of law and the other was much more about sexual identity and its perception. Yeah, that's a difference, and I'm glad you're moving from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u149	Indeed, I deliberately referred to the word "happy." I do not know if Mr Pijlman meant the identity statement at the time, but I mean the one from 2008, I believe, is gone, and I think that is a happy situation. That is why, in other contexts, I am also working on the picture that has emerged around this situation, including towards the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u150	Mr Schalk is right to profile himself in this debate with the disclaimer of his own involvement in reformatorical education. For that, my appreciation. I think it is important that the conversations are made there, just as in other places. But I think he's doing a little easy about those identity statements that would be gone, like he says. I have just quoted one of them to Mr Doornhof. It says literally: "In our appearance, too, we let the distinction between man and woman be expressed in the creation." My question to Mr Schalk is not so much about the legal freedom of a school to ask. You can do all that, but I think that's a fake fight. In my opinion, the real question should be: do schools take their educational responsibility, including in citizenship, seriously if they formulate such a thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u151	I hope I still have the exact wording, but I think you said that in the statement you are now reading I do not know which one it is, but it is good that students show the order of creation in their appearance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u152	"The distinction between man and woman in creation."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u153	Yeah, yeah. It is indeed a fact that, in Christian reformer education, the order of creation is based on that given to us in the book of Genesis, also very well known to Mr Ganzevoort. "Man and woman He created them"; that is the starting point. That is not what the SGP Group is saying: we are either denying this or denying it. We ask our students and our parents to behave in accordance with that order of creation, which of course is also named on the basis of the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u154	I have also read some theology about creation and such. This is not entirely unknown to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u155	That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u156	But that's not my point. My point is about a wording such as 'we fully expect parents to underline this and to discuss it with their children and to be aware of the consequences'. Now you're growing up in a school like that. You learn a lot of things there, you get this, and you find that you cannot identify with it in terms of gender identity and that questions arise about transgenders and so on. My question is simply: what is the educational mission to these students? I am not talking about the freedoms of the school, I am talking about the teaching mission. That's what this law is about. How do we prevent what is called homonegativity and transnegativity from causing psychological damage? We know that risk is greater. My question to Mr Schalk is not so much about defending these schools as about taking part in his responsibility as a supervisor in this educational task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u157	And in the context of this bill, please. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u158	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u159	Yeah, but I think it's about this bill. At least, I have that impression. On the contrary, this teaching mission must be taken very seriously, but it must be embedded. That is precisely the strength of the freedom of education, in a religious belief that can and may be behind it. I am not saying that a young person who discovers, for example, that he has homosexual feelings should be dismissed. That's not what I'm saying. The teaching mission seems to me to assist him or her in doing so as best he can, to accompany him or her and the like. I'm also trying to get a little away from that single subject. I think Mr Ganzevoort understands that. I also do this by making it clear that students should be addressed to heterosexual things that, according to my belief, should not take place in a school. In other words, school should first of all be an environment in which students know themselves safely. Secondly, they need to know where they can join, even in big life questions. Because I'm not playing games with you at all. But there must and should also be room for the foundation of the school. In this case it is about the order of creation, about religious beliefs. To do that in a good and careful way, that requires more...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u160	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u161	...then we'll talk about statements of identity that are already gone on a late afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u162	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u163	I'm a big fan of Article 23, the freedom of education, regardless of how exactly you should fill that out. Mr Schalk says that the declarations of identity are gone, while I have just read one. He should just embrace this bill and say: our joint mission is to work on that citizenship, to work on a safe environment in schools. That's exactly what this bill does. I would therefore ask Mr Schalk not to put the heels in the sand, but to embrace this, precisely because of the call from those schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u164	And that is in the course of the continuation of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u165	Yeah, I'll come back to that, no doubt. I didn't realize I was in the sand with my heels. I do have a specific opinion on this bill and on the way in which it has been dealt with so far. It tends towards a follow-up to what the Minister very strongly argues again and again, namely that this is not part of the curriculum and so on, whereas some parties explicitly ask for it every time. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. I hope that the Minister will understand my concerns on this point and that he will once again put forward the position of Christian education in Dutch society. Can he indicate that in schools there is free space for opinion formation and for the transfer of beliefs from biblical values and standards? Mr. Chairman. However, the Minister's written answer also raises a number of questions for me. It's the sharpest part of the cut. I realize that. I try to choose my words with care, and I also say to my colleagues who have just interpreted them. In the written round, I asked if the biblical values could be defended against "I know it's a loaded word," but I would like to add that I say it with care, gender ideology. I get the answer that the use of this term does not correspond to the fundamental fundamental right to be treated equally, regardless of sex or sexual orientation. Why's that answer? This is not about individuals, but about a strong ideology that, as I see it, is currently flooding the world. An ideology is a system of ideas about man, human relations and the organization of society that lives within a social group. That can be appointed as such, can't it? With that, I reject it once again, and I reject anyone who has to do with gender dysphoria, for example. That is the personal situation of man. We respect that. But that's different from the mainstream. How we deal with it is not value-free. For me this is true of biblical values. I have explained this in detail in previous debates. I have also tried to do so with all due care. Surely those biblical values can't be declared out of order, because they wouldn't fit into the mainstream? In other words, if, for example, the liberal vision of life is dominant, then it cannot be imposed on society as a basic form? It is precisely the task of a school to identify developments in society and culture from the role of religion and belief, among other things. Mr. Chairman. There was also a written exchange of views with the Minister on the question of responsibility for the way in which the schools carry out the citizenship mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u166	You just said, "What if the liberal philosophy of life...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u167	...is dominant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u168	... has the upper hand, then it is our job that..." There's definitely something you can do about that in a school. Can you imagine that in this type of school that liberal view is being told, after which you start a discussion about it with children who are already more mature, and that your own view does not get the hegemony over another view? That, I think, is the core concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u169	Maybe two points. The first is, do you have to tell me what's going on in society? The answer is yes. That's crystal clear. I would also find it very unwise to try to shield your children from that. I must say that I know that something better than Islamic education, which is very often referred to as guided confrontation. In doing so, you try to show all aspects of society. That's one. Two. During the afternoon it was about the methods. I did not agree to take too much time from the interruptions. I think it is very important that there are good methods, including in reformer education, which, for example, deal with issues relating to political movements or diversity and such good and careful treatment. I also believe that it is the right of the teacher and the school to explain it from their belief in life. That is precisely the strength of Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u170	I understand that, but does the student, as he grows older and mature, also have the right not to embrace that identity and say: I don't feel at all at home? Can that school handle that, too? Can this school, in its teaching assignment, guide that child in a good way? That's what I think it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u171	I understand that very well. In my personalia, it says that I participate in the Network of Social Security and Sexual Diversity. So I look at that area a little more often behind the front door of those schools. Let me put it this way to Mr Pijlman: we are working very hard at the moment to make sure that what has gone wrong in the past is handled carefully. That is, frankly, a huge search for the balance between what is your deepest inner conviction and the reason is that parents bring children to a reformatory school, and your task as a teacher to deal with your students, the confidant and the like in a proper and careful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u172	Thank you. I think we are moving forward with your input. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My final point was that I had a written exchange of views with the Minister on the question of responsibility for the way in which the schools carry out the citizenship mission. Is it about how or what in the surveillance now? Well, the Minister has clearly stated that it is what schools are like. Not at all! According to the Minister, the inspection will exercise restraint when it comes to monitoring the vision of schools, but will closely monitor whether this vision is reflected in educational practice in accordance with legal requirements. Again, it goes through the sharpest of the cuts. The how and the what are also very close to each other here. That is all the more important when the citizenship mission is referred to as a need for correctness. Until now, action could be taken if a school at all did not comply with the citizenship mandate, but the mission is now being clarified and strengthened, which means that it can be better maintained. How and what, they are on each other's heels, because what does that mean in practice, for example in the field of teaching materials? The Minister has indicated that, although passages or images that can be perceived as destructive or controversial may be used to illustrate something, if they no longer comply with the democratic rule of law in 2021 and if that is contrary to the citizenship mandate, the inspection can continue. What exactly is that supposed to mean? Can a biblical history be placed out of order, because it deals with an unpleasant theme? In other words, how does the inspection deal with that? Mr President, I will conclude. The Minister has indicated that a clear research framework needs to be developed. This also involves the field of education. What is the state of affairs and is the outcome also submitted to the Second and First Chambers? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make the suggestion that we simply keep the ten commandments as a framework or at least the second table of them. This is about all kinds of interpersonal relationships, such as respect for authority, respect for life, loyalty in marriage, refraining from each other's stuff, integrity among themselves and stopping jealousy. These values are beneficial to everything and everyone in society. If we are allowed to transfer these values to our children, they are equipped to interact as citizens of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u175	Thank you for your leniency, because I was something about my time, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u176	I'll charge the negative balance later. Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u177	I have a question about the first sentence of Mr Schalk's contribution. I thought he would return to that, his chair of the Supervisory Board. In accordance with Article 2 (2) of our Code of Integrity, Mr Schalk reports his membership of that Supervisory Board, but the explanatory statement also asks to consider the potential conflict of interest and to explain membership. I am very curious to see how Mr Schalk can reasonably assess the potential conflict of interest from the point of view of the measure set out in the explanatory memorandum to Article 2 (2) of our Code of Integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u178	A concise answer, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u179	A brief answer to a complicated question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u180	I know you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u181	I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman. Let me put it this way. I'm standing here as a SGP politician. I am obliged to point out that I also have a role in social life that affects this, but I have not contacted the board of directors in advance about what I could say about this subject, for example. I try to deal with this carefully and carefully. The expressions that I have made visible my different functions are public and can be read everywhere. Is that perhaps the beginning of an answer? Is it perhaps even a somewhat concise answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u182	And maybe it's the end of that same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u183	Sure, because I understand that this will be discussed in the College of Seniors. As far as I am concerned, it is not enough to mention membership and it must also be provided with an explanation as to whether it is relevant or not in the context of those criteria, which are set out in the explanatory memorandum, and whether there is a presumption of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u184	I assume the chairman will take this as a point of order to bring it into the Seniors' College. As far as I'm concerned, we can ask each other about that. In dealing with this kind of thing, I understood more clearly that there is an explanation or that you are making a comment about it than that we are giving some speaking time in advance. I suggest that if we do that, we take some separate time to do so so so that we do not let it get rid of your real input. But I'm sure it'll come back to Seniors College.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u185	That's what I'm guessing, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u187	And, of course, I would like to congratulate you on your birthday yesterday. You have reached a special age. The number 6 also has a special meaning in the Bible, not always equally positive by the way. But you're gonna be 61, too, so it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The 6 was once before my age, but then it was indeed only one 6. Now it's 60.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u189	In fact, I think several times. Congratulations again on behalf of the entire Chamber. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Vries, who will speak on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u190	Mr. Chairman. If you had to think of an educational model with the objective of "make integration as difficult as possible," you would have to look at the current Dutch education system. Article 23 of the Constitution, introduced 100 years ago during the so-called school battle, was, in retrospect, a mistake made by liberals who thought they should exchange universal suffrage for institutional isolation in education. It has led to a population that has little in common. Now we are dealing with the long-term consequences of this non-future-proof education system and Minister Slob is trying to camouflage the structural problems by means of a citizenship mission. Mr. Chairman. It is no secret that our group is in favour of a firm modernisation of our Constitution in which freedom of expression prevails over freedom of religion. Article 23 of the Constitution in its present form also needs to be adapted and futureproofed for the 21st century. The current legislative proposal excels in vagueness, as the legislator wishes to lay down as little as possible on the content of citizenship education in relation to Article 23 of the Constitution. Our group finds this lack of ambition disappointing. Our group has a preference for a compulsory curriculum for civic education in which the Dutch state system and the functioning of Dutch democracy are also extensively discussed. People are not born democrats. Democracy must be explained to all citizens and pre-empted. Whole sections of the population also want clarity about the rules of the game in the Netherlands and have less understanding for the current, typically Dutch vague approach. The current situation of increasing tensions and decreasing bonding clearly requires citizenship education with a level playing field more than ever before. The aim of the bill is for all schools to develop their own vision of citizenship education. That's putting the horse behind the cart. You will get a rattle of different views, all over with your own ideological or religious sauce, and it will create an enormous extra workload for the schools, who already have enough on their plate to catch up with the delays that have now been caused by the corona crisis. It is precisely now that the Minister could have shown more ambition and introduced a compulsory curriculum for all schools within the current constitutional framework, whereby the education inspection can also monitor compliance and impose sanctions if they are not complied with. And not, as the Minister explains by law, that the inspection will exercise restraint in monitoring the implementation by the schools. Mr President, I will conclude my speech. Unfortunately, this law is exemplary for this minister's little ambitious education policy. Our group hopes that this issue will be given a prominent place in the formation of the new cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u191	Imagine the Minister doing what Mr De Vries says. Would that mean that the concept of citizenship which must be taught to schools is, in your view, a very neutral or a very liberal concept of citizenship? What do you choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u192	You give me two choices, but I think that should be a very clear task, with all children being equally instructed and informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u193	I would like to give you a third choice: that can also be the Christian view. Would you choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u194	No, our group would not choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u195	Then my question is: how is it possible for a government to give a completely neutral concept of citizenship if we also recognise that we live in a multi-faceted society, in which your vision also has a fair place and you can give your voice here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u196	Sure. But I am not saying that religion should be excluded from that citizenship mission. It can be part of that mission, because of course there are many religions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u197	Finally, Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u198	I am surprised at this answer. Let us be honest: the vision of the rule of law and citizenship is never neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u199	Thank you. Mr. De Vries, do you have any response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u200	No, I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u201	You're gonna let it go. Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the debate until next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-7.u202	I'm suspending the meeting for a break until 4:45 p.m.
