ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u1	A warm word of welcome to all of you, especially the Minister. What if the visitor wants to say goodbye? The building is now completely empty. The officials have gone home, the MPs have returned to their homes. It has been dark outside for an hour and we are starting part two of the Agriculture budget. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could do it a little pointy, but I know that's going to be difficult. What time will it be? Anybody got any ideas? I'll be happy to be outside by midnight. But we're all gonna try it anyway. The minister has cubes and themes. Yeah, it's a miracle of organization. Four themes and twelve cubes. I suggest we do the interruptions after a block like that. I propose that we do eight interruptions per group. That went well yesterday, so it all has to be fine. So we have 12 cubes and we do the interruptions after each block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u2	Well, Minister. Yesterday it ended an hour ago. That was the chairman's fault, who was too soft. But then today it has to be an hour shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr President, it will not be my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u4	Okay. Well, I'd say go on, toitoi.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you. Perhaps it is good for the administration that I also mention the themes and cubes we have. Then you can all write along and then you know when the interruptions must be committed. The first issue concerns the integrated approach to nitrogen. In this area, I have three blocks, namely the first on nitrogen-wide, the second on rural areas and the third on policy, practice and the seventh action programme for the Nitrates Directive. The second theme is the future of agriculture. In it I have a block of innovation, a block of circular agriculture and a block of earning power and chain parties. Then comes the theme of animal welfare and health. Then we have the block of zoonoses first; the second block is animal welfare and the third block is NVWA. The fourth theme is nature and fishing. Then we'll start with nature first. The second block is CAP-NSP. The third is fishing. After that, I'm going to say goodbye to you with a few fine words. But then we'll be around midnight, I guess, when the time comes. I'm starting... there's a couple of members who are freaking out right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u6	It's already getting out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u7	It's already getting out of hand. I'm going to start by saying a few introductory words. Then I will come to the whole issue of integrated approach and nitrogen. Mr. Chairman. I told you last year that I thought that was my last budget debate, with the prospect of the elections and everything that would come after. But thank God I'm back here, because it's always a party to be in your midst. This also applies today, even though I have listened to all the contributions made by Members in the first period. I will look at the questions and the issues raised by the Chamber in a moment, but first I would like to look at the particular time we are in. We heard some of that yesterday in the contributions of the members. We are, of course, in a demissionary phase of the cabinet. I taste impatience with some Members to take action. I recognize that impatience, too. On the other hand, the budget now before us is also a budget of a outgoing cabinet. That is, of course, a bit of a problem with the debate we are having, namely the debate: what is the future of agriculture, how do we proceed with the question of nitrogen and how should we assess this budget? Mr. Chairman. In the eulogy of the throne, the king already recalled it. He called the historian H.W. von der Dunk. Each time is a transition time. It is, and it certainly is at the moment. It seems tempting to dwell solely on the issue of the Hague, but I think that statement is also felt by people from practice: farmers, fishermen and nature managers. When we are all still talking about the formation of a cabinet, farmers have already harvested and often sown, the fishermen have already sailed and nature has experienced all its seasons. At the same time, it is somewhat reassuring that everyone continues. But that does not relieve us of the responsibility to ensure that policies are put in place that people can move forward with. I told you, we have a lot of big issues on the table. Issues that will also affect farmers, gardeners, fishermen, nature and nature organisations. They want to know what they're up to, and that's what I hear here in this Chamber: what's the future? That doesn't mean we've never thought about it at all. In fact, I think that a lot has been sent to your Chamber lately on how we see the future with regard to certain matters; reports. Consultative agencies have thought with us about how we can do that further. We want to give room for sustainable production, in balance with nature. I have said it before: what we have to take care of is that we need to get further and further away from the so-called edges. We now notice that yesterday in the debate I also heard the annoyance over the many middle rules we have rather than target rules. I would like nothing more than to lay down target rules to ensure that I no longer have to fall into those kinds of rules. Because that doesn't make anyone happy, not even a minister, I can assure you. Entrepreneurs can therefore make their entrepreneurship a reality and make their own choices, knowing the framework within which that should be done. It's just not that far. We need to take steps to get there. An important theme, therefore, is the integrated approach and the nitrogen. We have last year... I think it was Mr Boswijk who reminded me that it was a year since we dealt with the nitrogen law here. Since the law, its adoption and its entry into force, the cabinet has not been idle. We knew that I have often recalled that the law was an important step, but also not the final phase of the whole implementation of the nitrogen issue. In the meantime, therefore, we have also thought further: how can we ensure that nitrogen is dealt with in a structural way, in such a way that when you give direction, there is also clarity about the authorisation of other developments such as housing? But also: how can you improve nature? Because in the end, there's the key to everything. I heard Mrs Vestering say that the law is not enough. That's right. We knew that, as I said at the time of the treatment. But it is an important step that now calls for follow-up. I sent Mrs Ouwehand's request to the General Political Affairs Committee on 12 November this year various scenarios to the Chamber on the nitrogen approach. Those scenarios were drawn up by the cabinet itself. We have searched: what is needed to ensure that you can take a step that is not always unclear what is still being done? A major approach to the problem of nitrogen. We have explored these scenarios and they have been further calculated and explained by the PBL, the WUR and the RIVM. You have been able to take note of these reports. In these scenarios, as a cabinet, we wanted to focus on a number of issues. I will look into these points in a moment. Firstly, the integrality of the policy. We notice it every time: we come to the farmers' heir about literally because of various issues, now again with the Seventh Programme of Action for the Nitrates Directive for water, then around nitrogen, then around biodiversity and so on. Every time the farmer's question is, and rightly so: does it all fit together; don't stack it up, work from an integral policy. So we wanted to put the integrity first. Second. Our country is not that big, but our country is different. We also notice in all kinds of policy dossiers that areas differ and that you really have to work from an area-based approach. This means that you can also make more of a tailor-made approach in an area where the general rules are sometimes perceived as clinging or not applicable. In addition to integrity and area orientation, there must be a clear dot on the horizon. That is the perspective, so that one also knows what one can work on and what the way forward is. One part of that is that you make sure the goals are met. That is the inescapableness of policy. In addition, we need to ensure that we can get the consent back on track. Of course, it lies like a blanket over the whole issue. Finally, sufficient resources are needed to do so, as is also stated in the scenarios. If you want to do it all at the same time, it's an incredible operation. On the one hand, you need clarity for that, but on the other hand, you also need sufficient resources to achieve it. If you look at the scenarios that we have set out, in terms of integrity, it has been chosen to look at challenges related to nature, climate, water quality and biodiversity and to try to take those challenges as much as possible at the same time. Mr Thijssen asked how we see the need to take climate action, including in relation to the Climate Law. Let me say it in my own words: agriculture must also contribute to this. That's right. Agriculture is already making a contribution and will have to make a further contribution to it. If you are going to take such a larger approach, it is important to keep those goals in mind and the way in which you can contribute to them. A very specific theme: the Millions note recently released additional funds for additional measures. You've been able to read that. Some of these funds are also intended for a number of measures in horticulture. But again, the greater movement will also have to be seen in conjunction with the further nitrogen approach. I see Mr Thijssen getting up, but I will finish the subject. Then there is the area-oriented approach. We had already thought ourselves that we should work much more area-oriented. The analyses also show that the effectiveness of the approach can be increased even further if you focus it on the different areas. The immediate environment can therefore be taken into account. It becomes clear what can and cannot be done and where. Then we can also look at, for example, the proper redevelopment of land and the necessary transition of agriculture. Mr Boswijk had a number of specific questions about the latter, the agricultural land. During a transition, ground is incredibly important; these members know that and often remember that. With that land farmers literally earn their money, but that land is also literally the soil for biodiversity, life and everything around it. Mr Boswijk asked whether more flexible forms of agricultural land could not be considered. We have nature and farmland now, but what's in between? Such a new form is certainly an interesting option. One option is to get a permanent change in the status of agricultural land in natural management to extensive nature-inclusive agriculture. You'd have to add one of those. I have just informed you of this in connection with Mr Boswijk's motion. We really want to see if that's possible. I would also like to discuss with IPO, VNG and interested organisations what this might mean. In the course of next year, I can inform the Chamber about any further steps we may take. Mr Boswijk also asked for better protection for high-quality agricultural land. He simply asked that in general, so also: how can we ensure that high-quality agricultural land can remain so? A number of advisory reports have been produced which also identify where agricultural land may need protection in order to remain so. We have outlined a number of options in those advisory reports in order to further protect them. One option is zoning, for example, because an area is really needed for agricultural land. A number of options will be further developed for how to do that, so we are also working on that. Then there is the perspective and the inescapableness of the policy. We want to keep perspective for agriculture. I can't stress that enough. I sometimes hear sounds that people say that the purpose of our cabinet, or perhaps future Cabinets, is not to do so, but that is not true. Agriculture is simply an important pillar for our food supply. It is also a sector in which many people work, many people manage nature, which is truly invaluable to our country, and it must remain so. Is it all going to be the same way? There may be some changes, but I'm not denying that. We will also have to make agreements, set goals, ensure that how we work is also in balance with that nature and that we also have that nature restored. That is also at the heart of the policy that we are pursuing and that we must continue to pursue. Mr Thijssen............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That was his statement. That's not true. This budget is not contrary to court rulings. We also have measures included in the Natura 2000 site management plans and additional measures under the nitrogen reduction and improvement Act. In this way, the conservation of all relevant natural values in these Natura 2000 sites must be ensured in a sustainable way and we must also continue to work towards the conservation objectives that are included in this. The provinces shall identify the state of the individual areas, whether the conservation targets are met or whether additional area-specific measures are necessary. This will also continue next year, because we are working on the implementation of these judgments. And then there's the money that goes with it. I have just seen a very large amendment come in. I'm a bit boasting in the cabinet that I've gotten the biggest amendment, which makes my budget go six times. In my opinion, no one has ever managed to get an amendment for this amount. I come later to the substantive appreciation of that amendment, but I think it shows that there is a broader awareness in the Chamber that we are on the verge of a huge transition, for which sufficient resources must be available, so that it can be properly addressed. The PBL has also passed on some scenarios that we have laid down, which also outline a range within which resources vary between 14 and 30 billion. We also looked at whether this could solve the problems that exist, to ensure that conservation targets for nature are met, but also to enable the transition in agriculture, so that those farmers actually have a perspective. And you will not be surprised that this is also an issue that lies on the formation table. I can say that with the hand on my heart, because I sometimes sit there at that table. Not now, because I am in your midst today, but this is an issue that really lies there, because it is a lot of money. I cannot say much about this at the moment, because it is really up to a new cabinet, what the resources are needed. Know that the feeling is widely shared that this cannot simply be removed, that this really needs a substantial effort on the part of the cabinet, especially with regard to finance. I believe that Mr Boswijk and Mr Bishop have also asked a question about this. How do you read the critical deposition value in the light of the investigations, of the reports? I think Mr Bishop interrupted that yesterday, but I say that out of my mind. He said, look beyond nitrogen, because that's what the PBL says. That's right. That's what we say. The Planning Office indicates that an integrated approach to nature's problems is needed. That is why you need to focus the nitrogen approach on reducing nitrogen, but at the same time also on improving nature. These are the two pillars of policy. These are also two aspects of monitoring that we take with us in this way. Those two pillars are already in the current law, but it is certain that you will have to continue working on those two pillars in the integrated approach. I think it's necessary. I expect further work to be done along these lines. And then it's not just about the critical deposition value. For example, hydrological recovery measures can also make a major contribution to reducing the dehydration problem. This way, for example, you give the bog some more air. So yes: it is about reducing the amount of nitrogen, but certainly also about measures to further strengthen nature. It is now really up to a new cabinet to find out how this will be completed. No, let me put it this way: I didn't want to sit still in the meantime. I just wanted to prepare everything to ensure that a new cabinet can come to those choices and we can quickly shape that approach, in order to make the necessary improvement real for nature, but certainly also to maintain the perspective for agriculture. Mr. Chairman. I still have a few small questions in this block. Do you want me to go after it right away? Then I've completed this block. Mr Van Campen asked when the PAS detectors were legalized. The draft programme for the legalization of PAS detectors has been available for consultation since 10 November. That will take until December 22nd. The legalisation programme is expected to be adopted in January 2022. The law states that the notifications must be legalized three years after entry into force. So that is the time frame: in the period between the beginning of next year and three years thereafter, the whole journey must be designed and completed. Meanwhile, of course, we are already legalizing the first detectors. He also asked if I recognize that 75% of the growers would soon be subject to a permit. I must say that I have not been able to check the percentage, but this also applies to gardeners, as it does to other sectors. Here too, those who had too low depositions did not have to report. This concerns so-called non-reporting activities. This may also apply to horticulture. Legalising the reporting-free activities is part of the legalization obligation and thus also of the legalisation program. So they are walking in it. This also applies to those who have reported and are therefore already participating in the notification programme. No distinction is made between agriculture and horticulture. So this may also apply here, but I don't recognize the percentage, or we don't know it; let me put it this way. I cannot judge that very well either, because it is part of the province, because of course it is the one who gives the permits. Mr Bishop asked about the real-time measurement of ammonia and the possibility it would offer to make big jumps. He asked me if I'm gonna give him more experimental space. This subject has a very high priority for us. Wageningen Research and TNO are currently working hard to measure ammonia in real time. Real-time measurement is currently being developed to optimize business management. The next step would be to use real-time measurement to monitor company-specific targets. But you have to experiment for that first, because that is another important step and you must be able to see that properly, of course. For example, we also do this with the Task Force Acceleration Innovation Process Stalsystems. We'll also see if you can apply that kind of system at that point. And in a number of places, such as in Foodvalley and in measurements under the programme integrated approach climate, these pilots are already running. But this also takes time. I also want to make the expectations a little realistic. This has not all just been introduced and is simply widely applicable; we will really have to look at that very carefully, to make sure that it really measures what is happening and that you can really derive certainty from it. Then Mr Bishop also asked: what about the targeted buy-up and the professional ban? That's right. I informed your Chamber last week about the first instalment of the scheme. At the first tranche, it was true that if you stopped, you couldn't go back to another place. That's what we'd already communicated to the Chamber. This tranche also contains additional money, which we have added, for nature improvement, but also for the nitrogen registration system and housing. That is additional money that has been added to that tranche in order to achieve those goals. And the provinces have also requested the rapid entry into force of the amended regulations. I believe that the pending procedure is currently under way in your Chamber, which is right here. In the meantime, we are already preparing the second tranche of the scheme, and then Mr Bishop's point is that there will be no more professional bans. We're working on that, too, to shape that. And we are also going to look carefully at how we can continue to ensure effectiveness and efficiency. That's what we do with the provinces. So that's what's being worked on in the meantime. But in the first tranche, which was already known, that space is not yet in place, and that first tranche is now in front of you, in the front suspension procedure. Mr President, this was a long but also important first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a compliment, to begin this debate with a compliment. I think it is very good that the Ministry and the Minister have said: let the PBL pass on a somewhat larger scenario. And when I hear the Minister just now talking about it, I think: yes, I am starting to see a whole plan for agriculture. I think we have talked about this before, and I have often called for it, so I think it is extremely good that this is happening and that there is going to be a comprehensive plan, because it is driving us crazy and I think the farmers too. So that's a compliment before that happens. But then the rest, because it's not there yet. And indeed, since the election seasons have come and gone, and the minister pretends it's a natural phenomenon, well, those seasons do, but the fact that we don't have a cabinet yet, is simply because VVD and CDA didn't want to talk to PvdA and GroenLinks about the content of where to go with the country. And I think that if these parties had listened to our very sensible and reasonable proposals, we would have had a cabinet on the border a long time ago. But I understand I'm not gonna get an answer to what's happening at the formation table...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u9	If all the interruptions are going to take so long and we're all going to discuss the whole cabinet formation, we're really gonna see the sun rise here tomorrow morning. I really like that, but an interruption is just one sentence, another sentence, another sentence and another sentence, and then a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u10	So I'm allowed four sentences?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u11	Five's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u12	Okay. The question is: the formation obviously lasts as long as it lasts, and we can't get any clarity on that. But there's a climate law in this country. And this Climate Act says, and the Council of State is very clear about that: this cabinet is not missionary and they have to meet the objectives of the Climate Act; if there are gaps in achieving the goals, additional measures need to be taken. The same goes for Urgenda: we are not going to reach the target in 2022. This minister is responsible for one fifth of CO emissions in the Netherlands, greenhouse gas emissions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u13	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u14	Where are the additional measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u15	As I indicated, the Cabinet has also announced with the Millions Note additional money and, in particular, measures to bring those objectives closer. I think that you and my colleague, the Secretary of State for EZK, have already had the debate on this; I believe that this has already taken place or is yet to be done. Last week it also announced a number of measures concerning the coal power plant and other matters. And we, too, are making our contribution. We also have a number of measures in this package of the Millions Note in the area of LNV. We're gonna do it. But I'm right to admit there's more to it than that. That is why we have this integrated approach. That's what I stand for; let me put it this way. It's always up to my successor to decide if it's gonna be. I think, on the contrary, that this integrated approach, which looks at climate at the same time, is important if we are to meet the goals that we are going to achieve, but on the other hand we are to ensure that this farmer knows where he is going. So you don't have to come up with different rules every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u16	It's true. In the Million Note, 7 billion more have been released. That's very good, but so did the Council of State. The Council of State and the Planning Offices have said that the 7 billion is not enough to comply with the Climate Law. This cabinet expects citizens to pay their taxes properly and not run a red light. Citizens may then expect the Cabinet to comply with the Climate Law. The Council of State has said, despite the 7 billion, that more action is needed. Where are these additional measures, so that we meet the climate targets by 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u17	Then I'll refer you back to the formation. It's gonna be a bit of a walk we're gonna end up in. I actually hear Mr Thijssen say that he would have liked to have been there. It happened the way it did. I didn't have any influence on that either. I think that there will also be forthcoming Cabinets, because this is not just about one cabinet, but about the forthcoming Cabinets, which are well aware of the major tasks that lie ahead and which are also necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u18	Then we'll get back to formation. I do not think it is about what Mr Thijssen would have liked at the formation table. The point is that we adhere to the Climate Law and the climate targets. There are 40,000 people on the streets demanding this government to do whatever it takes. The Council of State writes an opinion that the dogs don't like. It's just gonna be placed next to us. Additional measures should simply be taken in this budget for the Urgenda targets of 2022. Where are they? Apparently, it is not so important for this cabinet to stop complying with the Climate Law and Climate Change!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u19	I repeat my answer: there are measures in this Millions note. We know that this has not yet been done and that more will be needed. I'm guessing it's also a subject that's on the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u20	First of all, thank you to the Minister for the response. Let's get to the point of banning the profession. I have a feeling the Minister is clinging to two thoughts. On the one hand, the Minister wants to speed up all kinds of measures. On the other hand, such an obstacle to action, to emerge, is simply extended as a professional ban for the first tranche. The first tranche shall be extended and shall remain linked to it. Then I would like to suggest to the Minister that we deal with this really differently. But my actual question is about the point of nature. The policy review has shown that the use of all these millions for nature conservation is extremely poorly justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u21	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u22	It's barely visible. When a colleague says that when he walks on the heath, he sees all kinds of pipe straws, I say that the question must be: where are the sheepfolds that always wandered over that heath? In other words, does the Minister agree with me that an integrated approach to this problem also involves much tighter monitoring of the way in which land-based organisations actually manage nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u23	That's a lot of questions. First of all, about the first tranche and the professional ban. The first tranche is still the first tranche. We have had to go through the state aid procedure in Europe for this. That's what happened. The arrangement is now ahead of you in your Chamber to hopefully also come to fruition quickly. At the same time, we are already working on another tranche. We are sticking to the agreement to ensure that this flexibility is achieved in that second tranche and that it also contributes to effectiveness and the target range. We have made this agreement on the occasion of the De Groot/Van Otterloo motion, I believe. So that's the puzzle we have to make for the second tranche. The first tranche is exactly as we agreed, with the addition that additional funds have been added for the nitrogen registration system and housing. That's a piece that's been put on top of it. But it is not an extension of the first tranche, as Mr Bishop suggests. Then there are the resources for nature conservation and the responsibility for it. Mr Bishop also knows that our nature policy is decentralised. The provinces are therefore the ones who make the agreements with, among other things, land-based organisations on how nature should be managed and how the responsibility for it takes place. We report to the Chamber on this responsibility to show what is happening at provincial level, but the responsibility lies with the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u24	As a follow-up question. I'm sure we'll talk about the restraining order. I'll let that rest for a while. It's about nature management. The Empire makes funds available. Executive bodies are the provinces. As a result of the policy review, the transparency of accountability is found to be extremely weak. Then it makes sense that as a far-reaching authority, when Rijk says: best provinces, I get it all, it's difficult and difficult, but we want to have a clearer insight; we want to know what is actually being done about nature management? That is in no way insightful at this time. I think that the Minister can call the provinces to order there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u25	"Calling the provinces to order." We just make proper arrangements with the provinces, because that's the way things are in our house of Thorbecke. Mr Bishop knows that, too. With the provinces we are talking about the accountability and monitoring of the resources made available to nature. Those reports could be a little more synergy, I'm just saying. We have also discussed this with the provinces in recent years. I think that in the last report, which we have also sent to your Chamber, a huge improvement has been made on how it makes sense to do what is done with resources. But primary responsibility must be given to the provinces to their own states. That's where the conversation takes place. As a result of the agreements we have to honour, I appeal to the provinces to report more uniformly. So we also know how much nature has been realized again and so on. This will remain the conversation in the coming years. But I can't just ask the provinces to answer to me. They answer to the States and they inform us so that I can inform you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u26	It is good to hear that the Minister indicates that over the next three years we are going to work hard to legalise these PAS detectors. But there is, of course, a great concern about the companies involved in those reporting-free activities. Maybe the minister doesn't recognize the 75% percentage of gardeners. Does it recognise that companies which have to deal with an unauthorized situation because of the non-reporting activities are currently in great uncertainty when there is transfer or enlargement, both in the case of growers and in the case of farmers? What would be her message to those companies that had to do with that unauthorized situation on the basis of those reporting-free activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u27	To be quite precise: the reporting-free activities are seen between 1 July 2015 and the end of May 2019. If you were below the border during that period, which I think was 0,05 moles per hectare per year, then you didn't have to report and then you were a "report-free activity." Now these companies are in uncertainty: do they have or do they not have a valid licence? That is why we also include this part in the legalisation of the PAS-reports. The legalisation program looks at the PAS notifications and the reporting-free activities during this period. It is precisely for that group that we want to settle this, so that that clarity actually comes about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u28	It's complex matter. It is clear and good that the Minister states that this target group is also included. But do we have in the legalization programme the whole group of entrepreneurs and companies in mind who would really like to move towards an authorised situation, whether they are PAS-detectors, interims, reporting-free activities or what other target groups? We want to give all these entrepreneurs the assurance that they can go through that place or that there are proper permits if they wish to transfer their business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u29	This is where I have to respond very precisely. We have the detectors and we have the non-reporting activities. They are all in the PAS period and we all take them into the legalization program. Then we have groups from before that time. Previously, when the regulations around Natura 2000 et cetera weren't there, you couldn't anticipate that as a company either. So they fall out on the other side. Then you also have a group we call interims. They are not currently included in the legalization program. Of that group it is not clear exactly how big it is. This is not about just some gardeners and some farmers, but this is about a lot of possible activities. That's why it's important that we make sure that we bring down the nitrogen in its totality. We also said: look for yourself and tell yourself exactly what your own business situation is, so that you get more insight into it. We don't know what we don't know. We didn't issue the permits. Those were the provinces. It is also quite difficult to see where those permits were not issued. But the program is really about detectors and non-notification-free activities in the PAS period. I apologize for the technique, but it's gonna be tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u30	We have the Minister of LNV here and at the same time she is also the one at the negotiating table. I just heard the Minister say: I do not know how much resources are needed to solve the problem of nitrogen. Does she say that as a minister or as a negotiator?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u31	We know it takes a lot of resources. We've had scenarios processed ourselves. Those scenarios didn't come from PBL or RIVM. As a cabinet, we have asked them a number of scenarios: do you achieve the goals you want to achieve with the means? You have had a technical briefing from the PBL in which it has been explained and in which it says: it also depends on exactly how you use those resources. They say, for example, I mentioned that the area-based approach is very important, because it allows you to direct exactly what is needed in such an area. Can you then calculate exactly on a euro how much it all costs? No, because you also need to understand what kind of steps you have to take in such an area. You really need to get into the depths to get that area clear. For a reason, we have calculated a number of scenarios to see what target range you can achieve with those means. So we do have some insight into that. I will deal with the amendment later. We know that they are also substantial amounts. I think we should also make sure that we do not know exactly whether or not you are achieving something with this amount. There is no doubt that the amounts are substantial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u32	I note that the Minister is responding as Minister. I find that reassuring, because the Minister should know how much it costs about two and a half years to solve the nitrogen problem. These are substantial amounts of money. That is also why I made an amendment, together with the PvdA, with a starting amount of 12 billion. I understand that it's not exactly calculated, but it's about an amount between 12 and 30 billion. How does the Minister see that? We're discussing a budget that doesn't have that kind of money in it. How does she see fit to solve this nitrogen problem without this money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u33	I have already said that we ourselves, as a ministry and as a cabinet, are going to work on what is needed to take that great step forward. Because you also want to get out of this impasse, both for farmers and for nature, as well as for all the economic activities that are now at a standstill. This includes a package of measures that I have also sent to the Chamber. I think it's necessary to get on with that. That includes resources. The reality is that we are in a demissionary phase. Mrs Bromet said it herself: it's in the range of 12 to 30 billion. There have been smaller amounts going around for parts. I think it is very important that, if it is decided to do so, these resources should be made available quickly in order to make that start quickly. At least we have already laid down plans, so that we do not have to start thinking about them. This also depends on the outcome of the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u34	I'm getting really despondent about this. The country's locked. There's a nitrogen problem. We know what measures are needed. Money is needed, and that is obviously part of the negotiation. Of course, that's not how we're gonna solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u35	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u36	It's actually more of a heart cry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the block of rural area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u38	Before we start, let me just say that we've done 45 minutes in the first block. We've got 12 cubes. That'll be 36 15 minutes, or 9:00. With the hour of dinner break that I have to take, I think we are going to end the first term of the cabinet at 03.30 a.m. tonight. In the second term, I know my pappenheimers......................................................................................................................................................................................................... If we start at 03.30 hours with the second term of the Chamber, it will really be very late. I know this has been a long block, but I would like to ask everyone, including the Minister, to be brief and pointy. Perhaps the Minister could also take a critical look at her text to see if things could be skipped. Otherwise, we're all gonna fall apart. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u39	Now we're being punished a little bit for starting a little later. However, I had already announced that this is a big block. The rural area. In particular, Mr Eppink, as well as others, have called for attention to be paid to the impact of such a transition on the rural area. I understand that very well. It is not just about farmers or about any kind of activity. It is also about the quality of life of the countryside and everything that surrounds it. I share Mr Eppink's view that farmers have a very important role to play in rural areas and that they are needed to keep that countryside attractive. We really need them. The vitality and viability of rural areas are therefore important. In all the steps we take, we must also bear that in mind. We do, because we have a National Programme of Rural Areas, in which we take these kinds of issues into account. That goes wider than agriculture alone. That's really about the whole rural area. Here too, area-oriented work is the way to ensure that you keep a close eye on all these interests, but also on the importance of living. In this way, you can also take steps in consultation and in cooperation with farmers and other residents in that area. We want to see how we can take all these steps together in the coming years. The first important step is to set targets for each province or region. These are the objectives that must be met in all the different areas that I have just mentioned about climate, water and nitrogen. You should also look at the impact these goals have on living and working in rural areas. This can sometimes mean that you say in certain areas "you can't go much further with your company here, but you can do that in some other place" or "if you adjust your business in this way, you can also continue here, for example by extending it further or with certain innovations." You should actually take that whole toolbox a little under the arm when you go to that area, see what's necessary and possible, but also what the targets are. So we also have to set these targets by area. As a second step, the province together with municipalities, water boards and, of course, with us as a government, draws up such a plan. As a third step, we are looking at how we can speed up these plans to make these changes and what is needed for them. In this context, Mr Van Campen asked about the consequences of stopping these farmers for the quality of life in rural areas. In particular, he spoke specifically about debris and unwanted activities. To avoid degeneration or undesirable activities, demolition, redevelopment or redevelopment may be considered. The provinces and municipalities are responsible for this through spatial planning. However, it is also important to strengthen surveillance and enforcement in the outer area in full width. Mr Van Campen also drew attention to this, also in relation to the means made available during the General Political Reviews with the Hermans motion for a resolution to counter undermining. I am currently in consultation with the J&V Ministry to see how we can spend that part of the budget in such a way that it reaches the right parties for the right purposes. That consultation with J&V is ongoing. It is mainly about the green boas, because they simply have an important role to play in this. In addition, we are working with the Regional Deals and the National Rural Area Programme, I have just mentioned regional and local initiatives that strengthen the broad prosperity, viability and vitality of the rural area. Mr. Chairman. This was the block of rural area. I couldn't do it any faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u40	That's a little too fast for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u41	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u42	We'll get right on it. Quick, quick, quick, before people get up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u43	Very good. Then we come to the Nitrates Directive block and the link between policy and practice, because a number of questions have also been asked about this. Firstly, the Seventh Action Programme. We have also had a debate on this recently. Mr Thijssen asked why we are satisfied with an action programme in which we are not going to achieve the objective of sufficient clean water. With the package of measures in the seventh action programme, the objective for groundwater quality is achieved almost everywhere in the Netherlands. This is not yet the case for surface water quality. We asked Wageningen University, Deltares, Utrecht University and TNO for a joint advice to identify the additional measures needed and possible for surface water quality. From that it comes out again that you have to look very closely at such an area. Here again you notice that the Netherlands, however small it is, is also very different. It is therefore best to include this measure in the integrated approach. Otherwise you'll all come to that farmer's house in a row with different measures again. That is why I believe that a broader approach is needed so that you can work on improving water objectives at the same time. It's necessary. We must also ensure that water quality is in order. Mr Bishop asked why we did not first talk to the practitioners before we drew up the Seventh Action Programme. I do not know whether Mr Grinwis had a comment on this, but at least Mr Bishop had a question about it. It's not like we didn't talk to them. On the contrary. I can tell you that there are very regular consultations with sector parties, especially with regard to such large programmes as the Seventh Action Programme. We all have different responsibilities here too. I need to make sure that plans are put in place to ensure that water quality is improved. That sometimes requires some conversation and some discussion, I say a little euphemistic. I understand that, too. Again, they are not always the easiest measures. But that is the distinction between responsibilities. At the same time, I note that we are now having very good discussions with the sector, for example on how to proceed. There have been some changes in the program, thanks to you. I can just imagine that that went by the band of those organizations as well. I really don't recognize the image that wasn't spoken to them. I recognize that we had to move forward and forward. In doing so, I have a responsibility to take steps. Mr Grinwis had a somewhat broader question about the struggle between policy and practice, as he called it. He asked whether there was sufficient knowledge about the feasibility of policies in practice. Of course, we have to keep an eye on the feasibility in practice. That's not always easy, I say at the same time. That's not because we don't want to, but because sometimes you have very high goals. Like I said, if you don't get off the edge every time, you're not gonna end up with such nice tools and regulations for me. Because you don't really have any other option. That's why I think we should throw it over that other bow. We are sure to have these discussions with the sectors and with nature organisations. Wherever possible, we do pilots and experiments to learn from them and to ensure that they are better in practice. Mr Boswijk has tabled a motion on the business panel. That is now being consulted. There too, practical knowledge is collected every time. Following on from that remark, Mr Grinwis proposed a practical placement. He suggested that our people, the civil servants, should also take a regular internship. Now, first of all, I'd like to correct the image that our people aren't getting out. That's not true. There are a lot of people working in our department who know very well from an agricultural company, from studies or whatever. In addition, we have already taken a number of initiatives to strengthen the practical experience. You know the action Boer is looking for a civil servant. I think that is a very good initiative. I think we should just go through with it. In that sense, I hear Mr Grinwis' idea as a kind of internship that you could run in order to broaden the knowledge of practice. Mr. Chairman. I do see a practical problem emerging. If all our officials have to go on internships, we will no longer be able to answer all these parliamentary questions on time. Actually, I'd like to make another call. If our people go on internship, the MPs get to internship with us at the Ministry. They'll be able to see what happens to all these parliamentary questions. If they want to participate, they are cordially invited to come to our department for an internship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u44	That proposal was adopted unanimously, it seems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u45	Very good. I'm facing them all. You may begin to puzzle yourself on all the complicated parliamentary questions you ask. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Graus asked if I could visit some more activities with the Members of Parliament. He also invited other MPs to join the practice, to go on work visits or internships. I have nice memories of working visits with Mr Graus, among others at the National Expertise Centre for Animal Abuse. We have been there together and we have seen what special work is going on there. I can recommend everyone to go to work with Mr Graus once. I don't know if I'm gonna do that in the next period. I would certainly recommend to my successor, and also in width, to go to work with Members of Parliament once. That makes sense. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u46	I have always been very much in favour of civil servants taking an internship. I've been calling that for years. I think it is very good to organise something like the Minister's offer that MPs will be attending the ministry internship. I look forward to it. What matters to me is consultation with the sector. We had a feed measure. We had a harvest measure before 1 October. We have had the Nitrates Directive. Every time you hear from the sector: why isn't there a little consultation with us, so that we can just show the ifs and buts from the ground up? Then you come to a different decision-making process. I have all the more reason to worry if the Minister now says: we are very good at consulting and we are listening to each other very carefully. Apparently, no follow-up is given unless there is a massive response from the sector. That's not how we're supposed to want to do it with each other, is it? Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u47	I just mentioned that everyone has their part. If we see that things are going on and that they need to be dealt with, then I can imagine that it is not the role of the sector to say: we are going to jump into the ranks and we are going to think about how we should do all this. In practice, after all, we make the proposals very often and then the sector says what works and what does not. That is also the role we have. As a minister, I have to ensure that action is taken if targets are to be achieved. These measures should lead to certain targets being met. It is not the case that we do not want to listen to the sector, but it is my responsibility to put down plans that will lead to the achievement of these objectives. I would just like to say that this is the case, among other things, with the seventh action programme, because the Chamber keeps calling on me to secure the derogation in Europe. I have to make sure that there are measures. We are really looking at how this goes forward in consultation with the sector. Sometimes it can be very complicated for a sector, which I understand, to say for myself what you could do or what you couldn't do. This is certainly the case if it does not lead to the achievement of the objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u48	I can imagine that a ministry will give a lead on which direction to go and what the goal is to be achieved: we believe that it can go through these channels. I find it strange that this should then be published and that the sector should take action against it. I would refer once again to this feed measure, the harvest measure and the Seventh Programme of Action for Nitrate, for which there is now an alternative programme. As a result, the confidence of the sector in the Minister's policy is seriously damaged. I can imagine that there is a concept that is simply well discussed with those involved. Then work will be done towards a common, broader policy. That would strengthen confidence. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the damage she is doing to policy itself in this way, by having confidence. I can't imagine the Minister really wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u49	I think this is rather big words from Mr Bishop about trust. I've got my part. I have a role to play in policy making, in ensuring that goals are achieved and at the same time ensuring that things are on the other hand. And yes, this is a field of tension between arable farming and livestock farming. Mr Bishop knows that, too. The livestock sector said: these are fine measures, because perhaps this will allow us to establish a derogation. For arable crops they were very heavy measures. I was aware of that, too. Moreover, the moment it came out was also the moment of the consultation. We bring it out on purpose, so that we can pick up and take the reactions. I understand very well that the sector organisation is not on earth to start thinking along with a plan that is completely fixed and round, so that they find it absolutely fantastic. That is not the role of the sector. At the moment when the consultation takes place and when the debate is being held with the Chamber, we are also looking at what is happening and whether we can do it in another way, but we are going to achieve the same goal. I put it exactly like that in the Chamber. I'm not married to any measure. If the goal is achieved, I'll be available for anything. Then it's fine with me if we do it another way. But that's the role that everyone has. Mr Bishop knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u50	First of all, I am happy to answer my very difficult and annoying questions once. Secondly, of course, I have every respect for the officials, for how hard work is being done and for how much knowledge there is. The idea was indeed to continue with the wonderful concept of the day of practice, which was already there. At the same time, the Seventh Action Programme contained a number of medium-term rules which raised the question as to what they would contribute to the objective. I do therefore have a request for the Minister if new policies are to be put in place in the future and a specific medium-term requirement is to be laid down. Yesterday I mentioned the example of a arable farm. That was about chopped straw, compost, how it consumes, nitrogen et cetera. I've got it all worked out. Such a measure that no more manure should be administered rhymes with it very badly. For a farmer, this is hard to come by, who thinks: what does this contribute to achieving the goal? It is nice that when such a medium-term rule is introduced and a measure is announced, it is also clearly explained what this specific measure contributes to achieving the objective. If that is clear, then it is better to accept, even if it is annoying. Then they disagree, but then they understand that it does something in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u51	I think that's a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u52	Perfect. Then we go to theme b.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u53	Yes. That is the future of agriculture. We're going through it pretty fast, Mr. Chairman. The first block is about innovation. Several Members have asked various questions about this. Mrs van der Plas asked, among other things, how I contribute to innovation in agriculture through subsidies. We do that in many different ways. We do this through the top sectors and innovation policies. Then the focus really is on stimulating innovation through cooperation between knowledge institutions and business. Over the past cabinet period, we have made additional resources available for innovation through the Climate Agreement and the nitrogen approach. I mention, for example, the barn innovations, the innovations in greenhouse horticulture and the grant module source-oriented sustainability. For example, we look closely at the valorisation and implementation of innovations, because there are, of course, farmers who have their own ideas and who can valorize them. We have the renewed program National Trial Garden Precision Agriculture. We have the Farm of the Future. We also have the grant module for farm advisory and education. I therefore believe that we are contributing to innovation in many places. With the measures in the Innovation programme on the farmyard, it was a great wish of the Chamber to set that up. We ensure that knowledge flows earlier into the farmyard and that we can also quickly unlock it. There may be all kinds of innovations, but you also have to make sure that it finally gets into practice. I am not talking about the more generic subsidies that exist. For example, the Stimulation of Sustainable Energy Production, the SDE, the MIA and the VAMIL. I'll spare you the explanation of all the abbreviations. They're all innovation schemes. Mrs Van der Plas also specifically asked about the smaller innovations in the area of stable sustainability and how many applications have been received. For the inclusion of a stable system on the so-called Rav list "Rav', which is the ammonia and livestock farming scheme, there is no lower limit for the achievement of emission reduction. So that's not a determining factor. Applications for innovations for a pilot stand under the Rav should, however, result in an emission reduction, namely that the maximum emission value per animal site per year may be achieved, i.e. the so-called emission limit value in the decision. So there is a framework around that. I have just referred to the grant modules as source-oriented sustainability measures for stable and management. In doing so, I support the research and development of these innovations. All innovations of the Sbv should involve a farmer who is also the end user of the innovation. 100% subsidy is given for carrying out measurements by a research organisation. There's also a maximum amount in it. In this way, we ensure that those opportunities are actually there. We'll also make sure it's widely accessible. A total of 94 applications were submitted in the first two openings of the innovation module. Of these, 48 applications were approved. I reopened the innovation module two or three weeks ago for farmers who want to research and develop innovations. The second opening has therefore also been achieved. Mrs Bromet and Mr Van Campen also stressed the importance of experimental space. Mrs Bromet specifically mentioned the case of Schiermonnikoog. I'll get back to you on that. Mr Van Campen mentioned the Fertile Circle in the Achterhoek. Mrs Bromet specifically asked about the lessons we can learn from Schiermonnikoog. She knows that I went to Schiermonnikoog quite soon after the beginning of my ministry and heard how beautiful the plan was made by the farmers themselves, together with Natural Monuments. It's been quite a way to get there. That could never have happened if all those parties had not put their backs on it, first of all certainly the farmers themselves, but also the local government, Natural Monuments, the banks and the province. We have also contributed to it, because at the same time we found it a very good example of how to move forward with each other. It does not mean that you must all stop as farmers, but that you can also work in a different way and keep the earning capacity up to date. I'm really glad it worked out. Although I don't like cheese very much, I even ate a piece of cheese from the farmer on Schier, just to show that I am very happy for them that I succeeded. The lessons we have learned there can also be taken into account in the further area-based approach. It's not a model you can apply anywhere, but we're sure to see if it's an option in other areas. Mr Van Campen spoke about the obstacles in the regulation that stand in the way of experimental space. I fully recognise his plea, because it is important that we ensure that these obstacles are removed as much as possible. I think that the Achterhoek is also a good example of how we have been able to do this in recent years and how these farmers themselves have started to work. In the experimental areas, pilots have all come off the ground. We have also been able to grant exemptions from LNV rules in a number of cases. That was the request of the Chamber: look a little outside the rules for what works there and see if that is more widely applicable. We are. We're looking at the results. This can lead, for example, to us sometimes going to Brussels with these results under our arms and saying, "Look, this is the same with other rules, or it might be more effective if we organise it in a different way.' Where rules apply that we can adapt them ourselves, we look at them. We have also looked at what legislation is relevant to the realisation of circular agriculture and what obstacles these rules may create. It is not surprising, but it appears to be mainly about manure or fertilizer legislation, waste legislation, the closure of the cycle, whether the use of insect protein is allowed in food and animal feed, plant protection rules, the authorisation of green foods and so on. Those are all things that we have at gunpoint and that we need to work out further. Mr Bisschop and Mrs Van der Plas asked me whether I would like to ensure the rapid co-financing of the practical trials in the field of plant protection. We have an implementation program for crop protection. This also provides for the possibility of co-financing projects leading to the achievement of the strategic objectives. That could also be the practical tests. We have also examined these requests so that they can be assessed under European State aid rules. We are doing our best to go through the procedure as quickly as possible and to conclude it, but it is something that is still pending at the moment. We'll have to wait and see. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the next block, circular agriculture. Maybe there are already people who want to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u54	I thought Mrs. Van der Plas, but she sat down again. Mr Van Campen then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u55	I hear the Minister talking about innovations and barn systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u56	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u57	Is this when I can interrupt on that? In my speech, I also considered the opportunities and opportunities offered by the new barn systems and innovations to reduce nitrogen. The ruling of the Central Netherlands Court in a number of cases has left the agricultural holdings very raw on the roof. Innovations and their legal certainty have actually been put under pressure. When you read the judge's ruling, it turns out that the innovations aren't so good. The demonstrable use of barn systems to be able to internalise is not sufficiently certain, says the judge. In fact, my question is very simple: how can we ensure that we guarantee that certainty, so that legal certainty is created for the farmer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u58	This is an understandable question. That is exactly the question we are asking... I don't want to shuffle anything, but the responsibility for the techniques, for the Rav list, lies with the Ministry of IenW. Those are the administrators on that list. With the Ministry of IenW we are now also looking at how we can justify that the techniques do what they do or at least that they also yield what has been predicted. This also has to do with how the systems are used in practice. It's not "what can they do?', But "what are they actually doing in practice and is that sufficiently certain?" It is currently under review, together with the Ministry of IenW, how you could better establish that. It is difficult to anticipate this, because that is a process which we want to do very carefully, also because it is a response to a court ruling. But this is exactly the question that lies ahead in that trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u59	Judgments in the caselaw are, in fact, always a mirror for the legislator. That's what the judge actually says. The judge says, "Everyone's looking at each other." I have previously tabled a motion on grazing and fertilising, whether on permit or not. I really don't think we should want to go that way. If the case law says that the legislator is inclined, how does the minister listen to that task, in fact, of the case law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u60	If we allow techniques, we must make sure that we can also provide real support that the techniques also do what we calculate they do. That's the kind of security that the farmer should be able to have. It's in use sometimes: how do you use certain innovations, what do you do with them? That's what sometimes happens when we have to look at how, for example, we can build in margins or something like that in order to say that we have taken account of something. Those are all matters that lie ahead. It is important that we provide that certainty, because a farmer who wants to use a certain innovation must be able to count on it. I don't want that uncertainty anymore. That's what I'm talking about. Because then nobody knows what to do and then you don't know how to do it anymore, when the investments are substantial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u61	Fine. We're going to circular agriculture. You'll have to stay close, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u62	Stay close a little bit? I didn't put myself in the back row. I'd like a seat in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u63	You may be next to Mr. Graus. You are always welcome with Mr Graus. He's got a big heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u64	Well, let's not do that for a while. I'm fine in there, but okay. No kidding, because we have to go through. I had a few additional questions, including the Rav list. 94 applications have been submitted, 48 have been approved. So about half of them are rejected. I specifically asked the Minister whether she herself knows these innovations in the assessment and whether she knows why they are being rejected. I would like an answer to that. Then I have one more question, but perhaps that can also be done in the case of cycle, about the Achterhoek experimental region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u65	I just talked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u66	Oh, sorry. I was just working on the Rav list. I'll take a look back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u67	Okay. I don't do the assessment myself. We have RVO for that. RVO sets out the frameworks and says: this is what innovation has to meet, this is what we are reviewing and we are looking at this. Then it is placed next to each other and RVO assesses which application meets and which one does not. And RVO is independent; I don't send in politics or anything like that. Those whose applications have been rejected will also be told why. If you participate in a subsequent application round, you can also take that into account in the application.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u68	That is also a bit the background to my question, because I also speak to farmers who are not told why the application was rejected. They then try to call and e-mail to hear why, but sometimes they come through hard. I'm not saying everyone does, but we'll get those signals. Would the Minister perhaps see to it that people are given an answer? Well, at least you know why an application hasn't been approved. Another question: would the Minister not want to know for himself which innovations are being submitted and why they are being rejected? Perhaps there are some very good innovations in there that the Minister says: why... you know what I mean? If I were to be a minister myself, who knows if that time will ever come again, I would find it very uncomfortable if something is decided when I do not know why anything is rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u69	A lot of decisions are made in my name, where I don't always know what's behind it all the way to the point and the comma. In this case, RVO also simply puts on the website on which it will be assessed and which criteria must be met. If it is true that some people do not hear back what is going on with it, I will contact RVO to ask if they want to give it more clearly. I know of some of the applications that have been submitted that have been given reasons why they have not been approved, but also what can still be taken on board for a new round. I did ask if this is happening. If there are cases that are insufficient or do not hear it, I will check it out. I would like to make a commitment to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u70	We're going to circular agriculture now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u72	After that comes the earning power. I think I'll suspend for dinner before we start animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u73	That's a good timing. The circular agriculture. Mr Grinwis and Mr Boswijk asked about regional food strategies. They both asked me if I wanted to update on that. Mr Grinwis specifically asked: is it not the case that the strategies are about more than just producing food? Is it no longer a matter for rural and rural areas? So shouldn't we narrow it down to just the Short Chain Task Force? I agree with him. Short chains can be an important part of the regional food strategy, but also serve a much wider purpose. The short chains are therefore not an end in themselves, but an instrument that can contribute to a sustainable food system. On 24 November I sent another letter to your Chamber in which we explained it a little more broadly. We are also currently taking stock of the existing initiatives: cooperative cooperation, food hubs and all the strategies surrounding them. In this way we can get a better picture and see what works and what parties can possibly learn from each other. Then I'll get to the earning power. Mrs Koekkoek had a number of specific questions about this, particularly in relation to the NSP, the National Strategic Plan, which we must submit in order to obtain money from the European agricultural policy. She says: that income model, the earning ability of the farmer, is surely crucial to shaping that transition? I agree with her. This is simply about entrepreneurs, who, of course, can also make choices themselves, but we can ensure that the choices they make and which contribute to societal goals are financially supported. That is exactly what we are doing. She says: what about the level playing field in Europe? She asked very specifically about that. We very much wanted a National Strategic Plan, on the one hand, because then you can do justice to the specific situation of the Member States. The Netherlands is different from France or Spain, because the natural conditions here are different. Whether you have mountains and hills or not, it doesn't matter. Whether you have a lot of water or not, it matters. And that's exactly what you can focus on with such a NSP. At the same time, it means that you get different situations at your level playing field. And that's why we need to focus it all on the same goals. In whatever kind of situation a Member State is in, it should contribute to the objectives, including those set out in the Green Deal and to the targets in other areas, such as the climate targets mentioned by Mr Thijssen. So that's where we have to guard the level playing field. This does not mean that we are given the same rules, but that the objectives we are pursuing must be the same. In practice, this means different effects for each Member State. A part of that transition she calls the pricing mechanism. Can it also stimulate consumption so that it goes in a certain direction? The exploration of the pricing mechanisms is actually part of a broader approach to improve the farmer's earning capacity. We have also looked at what more can be done there and what options we have. I have sent a number of reports to your Chamber, which could be applied there. You can see that there are opportunities in the pricing mechanisms, but that feasibility is always a big issue. Mr Thijssen asked for this very specifically. He did that in response to my comments in Zembla. He said: I heard the Minister say there that a levy on meat would be a possibility, but that it would have to be put back into a fund that would end up directly with the farmer. That's one of the things we've been investigating. We had the University of Wageningen ask that out: what kind of models do you actually have to do that? This option came out as the most effective, because it also directly enables the sustainability of livestock farming. This is sometimes linked to higher investment. It is not a proposal that I am making now in concrete terms. I'm in a missionary phase, Mr Thijssen! I did say that I think it's an interesting idea to work out. At the same time, we know that there are still some technical difficulties to be overcome, not least if you do this, for example, with the Tax Office. So it is not the case that I am now putting a concrete proposal on the table, but we have looked at what are the most effective things you could apply if you wanted something like that. In his speech, Mr Van Campen also explicitly mentioned the role of the other chain parties. He said that far too much is actually being pushed on the farmers alone. They're just looking at what they're supposed to do, but what about the rest of the chain? Let me say first of all that I share Mr Van Campen's view that this is not just a matter of farmers' inheritance. This simply needs to be dealt with by all the chain parties. In fact, I think they could also take some steps forward. That farmer is very active in doing so, but in those chains you should also get that change. There was also a very specific demand, for example, for financing sustainability. If you have such a sustainable proposal, you run into the bank that it is not going to be financed, for example because it does not fit in with the models they use. I have often had an exchange of views with Mrs Bromet on this subject, and she has also asked Parliament questions about the role of the banks in the transition. Everyone's got to get in on this, or this isn't gonna work. But it's about the suppliers up to and including the retail. And consumers too! They also have a major role to play in this, because with their choices they can also stimulate and advance certain things. I therefore agree with Mr Van Campen that we need to look beyond just the farmer and that, for example, financial institutions have a great responsibility to further the opportunities that lie ahead. Mr Bishop asked very specifically about the conversion fund. He had heard sounds that, for a moment in my words, it was appreciated in itself, but he also noticed that starters had more difficult access to it. I checked. We are now examining whether there are a number of concrete issues. In the limited time I have had, I have not been able to get that very sharp, but I will admit that I will look into that more closely. We have, however, explicitly started a pilot to learn from this. Where are things going well, where are things not going well, where should we tighten up and where not? But we are going to look carefully at how we can make that arrangement so that it is also applicable to those who want to make it. I can inform him that the first fully approved application to the fund is a fact. So it's happening right now, and I'm happy about that. Finally... No, two more points! Mr Crone, the cooperative ambassador, has written a report, also in relation to the ESC's agricultural table. Mr Crone has produced a report in which he gives us a number of tools to ensure that cooperation between all these parties is improved. I also recognise many of Mr Crone's findings, for example that the whole agro-complex should actually work together to ensure that this transition is successful. He also says: the government must then offer a clear perspective and set the frameworks. Well, that was just my speech at the beginning when I said it was my ambition and also my advice to my successor to work that out. With those eyes and with Mr Crone's report in hand, we are looking at the plans that lie ahead. Mr Grinwis asked whether we could not look at the links we actually lack in this cooperation in that way. He specifically mentioned the product boards that used to exist. How could you make sure that those gaps are filled? He called it a kind of cooperative agro-authority, if I'm not mistaken. We have offered the Economic and Social Committee's opinion to your Chamber, and that also means that there must be a robust implementation organisation for the implementation of the agreements in a further agricultural agreement. It is precisely in that implementation organisation that you need to have conversations with each other to ensure that those steps are taken forward as well. The Economic and Social Committee itself said and I quote: that the removal of product shelves makes itself felt in this context. Also a nice sentence! So the ESC actually found that there is not a good platform where you could make this kind of arrangement. So I think it is important to ensure that this responsibility in the chain is given an extra push and that we start looking for an implementation organisation, as the ESC calls it, to ensure that this push is also taken forward. All parties will have to sit down at each other's tables to decide who's going to do what. And they're gonna have to look each other in the eye. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u74	Very good. On the way to dinner there is one more question. Mr Thijssen, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u75	I am pleased to hear that the levy has been examined and that the levy on meat can be redirected back to farmers so that it can really make agriculture more sustainable. I'm a little worried about what it means for low and middle incomes. This afternoon, we had a debate at SZW on the increase in inflation and the purchasing power that it will put under pressure. And then there's another charge, which is gonna cost people more. My question was, therefore, whether the Minister has examined how such a levy can be compensated for the low and middle incomes, so that they do not deteriorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u76	Mr Thijssen now notes that there will be a levy, but I did not say that. I have looked at which method would work best if, on the one hand, you want sustainable products to end up in a kind of fair price field with other products and, on the other hand, you can ensure that this farmer has sufficient resources to achieve sustainability. We have provided a number of options for this and I have sent them to your Chamber. It was found that this was actually the best option. I did not say that a levy would be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u77	The question I asked was: did the Minister consider how to ensure that low and middle incomes do not have any higher costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u78	The report I asked for specifically looked at the ways you have to do that. It has been a while since I sent it to the Chamber, but I say from my mind that it says that it has to be through more generic purchasing power policy. So it should not be built into that system itself, because then you will get an even more complex implementation system. But again, there is no such charge. I am not putting a concrete plan on the table now either. I will only repeat what was found in that report. I say it by heart, but I think that there was more reference to generic purchasing power policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u79	I have two more questions about the level playing field. Feel free to count it as two interruptions, because I'm doing it now for efficiency at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u80	Those are the tricks these days, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u81	Like I'm gonna fall for that, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u82	Blocks in the interruptions! The first question concerns the external level playing field, because there are also third countries with which the European Union is dealing. It is, of course, on the intersection with the Foreign Trade Minister's portfolio. There are concerns about that, too. Just when Europe is going to green up and we are coming up with the NSP, the question is how we can monitor it. I ask that, precisely because it is at the intersection of different departments, both in the European Commission and in the Netherlands. What are the French Presidency's plans for this, to the extent that they are already known? The second question on the level playing field concerns the European Union's internal playing field. Has there been a specific examination of the differences between companies? I understand that the European Commission has indicated that the NSP is available to all farmers. But it's still unclear to me whether that means...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u84	It's a very technical question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u85	I got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u86	It's okay for three interruptions, Mr. President. I'm very easy. It's all right. I'd like to specify. So that is what the European Commission's recommendation says, but is it about the overall picture or is it really going to be looked at by farm, small, middle and large, whether everything is properly covered? There really were three of them, Mr. Chairman. Not four!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u87	The Minister can just give one answer, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u88	First the point of the level playing field. Yes, attention has been paid to this in the Agriculture Council, and specifically to the CAP. We found that if, on the one hand, you make increasing demands on farmers in Europe and, on the other hand, you enter into trade agreements where those standards may not be taken into account, you do not really get a level playing field between countries outside and within Europe. The Council of Ministers, the Agriculture Council, has therefore stressed the importance of the level playing field in the CAP through the trade agreements concluded by the EU with third countries. That was an important aspect. Eventually it ended up in the documents that have been established there. To be honest, I do not know how the French Presidency is going to implement this. This also has to do with the fact that I have not fully followed the latest developments concerning the French Presidency. I am also saying it out of my mind, but I do not think I have seen any documents on this before the forthcoming Council. I think this is actually just work in progress, also for the coming years. The EU takes this into account in its entirety. Finally, the question of the differences between farms. We also discussed it in the CAP negotiations. Of course, you have a lot of differences between countries. There are very large farms and really very small ones. The agreement or the ruling was that it was not all allowed to go to the very large companies. The Netherlands actually has very average sizes, which are also not that different from each other. You don't really have mega-businesses here, like in Germany for example, and just like in Bavaria, very small businesses again. With us it is all quite generic, but also on average in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u89	At a quarter to eight, we're gonna talk about animal welfare. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u90	Yes. I appreciate the answer about the Netherlands very much, but I am also curious about the situation between the European countries and whether there are any risks to be expected there. In particular, I would ask that we talk about these green targets in the future. Perhaps there are still bottlenecks that we are going to see in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u91	In relation to what, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u92	In relation to exactly what the minister describes: the difference between Germany and the Netherlands, for example, in terms of type of companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u93	The special thing is that it is already playing in Germany itself. In the former East Germany you have huge companies and in Southern Germany, for example, you have small companies. So this is already a major discussion within a Member State. We have also discussed the cap cap cap, so the maximum amount of support you could get per company. We said: you should actually want to cap it at €100,000. Especially the Germans didn't want that. At the time it was said that this was not in the Agriculture Council, but in a Council of Ministers in which the leaders of the Member States talked about it, that there is not going to be a capping of the cap. As far as we're concerned, we could have. You would have prevented those very big companies from getting the most money. We also have the movement from the hectare premium to more the second pillar targets. Then it goes down again how many acres you have, but you are paid more on the basis of certain goals. That is a movement that we now have in the NSP and that seems important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u94	So there's not gonna be a cap?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u95	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u96	Well, then we have news. At 7:45 p.m., we're gonna talk about animal welfare. Until then, I wish everyone a good meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u97	We're gonna go on cheerful. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have reached the third theme: animal welfare and health. I'll start with the block on the zoonoses. A number of questions have also been asked by Members. Mr De Groot asked how we would follow up the Bekedam Committee's report. I set up this committee at the beginning of this year, together with my colleague for Medical Care and Sport. At the beginning of July, the expert group delivered the report. It contains 70 recommendations to strengthen zoonoses policy. I sent the first response to this report to the Chamber on 6 July. At the moment, I am working with my colleague from VWS to strengthen the zoonoses policy. One principle is central and that is the One Health approach. This is an integral approach to human health, animal health and a healthy environment, all three at the same time. That's what we're both promoting internationally. I recently did that at the G20 held in Italy. Over the past period, the Cabinet has used it to discuss this report with relevant public and private stakeholders, in order to prepare a multi-annual action plan on zoonoses, in order to strengthen the existing zoonoses policy. That action plan is not yet complete, so that is still going on, but I hope to be able to send it quickly to the Chamber, or to my successor. In any case, we will send a letter before Christmas in which we will indicate the state of play and how we will proceed. Mrs Vestering asked what had been done with the opinions that emerged from the evaluation of the avian flu outbreak in 2003, which had a very large impact on all concerned. This outbreak has also taught lessons on the prevention and control of avian influenza, precisely in order to prevent the recurrence of such a scenario. At European level, but also in national legislation, we have adapted the necessary measures to ensure that this avian flu outbreak is reduced as much as possible. Unfortunately, we are now seeing that there is again avian flu. We are also taking the necessary measures. We set up a bird flu monitoring at the poultry farms in order to detect that infection as early as possible. We also look at the wild birds. There, ad hoc or structural monitoring is carried out for avian influenza. After each animal disease outbreak, an evaluation will take place, in which we will see what we can do better, to ensure that we are increasingly able to keep the outbreaks that are there as limited as possible. That also continues to keep the cabinet's full attention, because you are not just done with that at once. In this context, Mr De Groot asked about the test of vaccination against avian influenza and when to expect the results. Vaccination against animal diseases is an important tool to prevent disease symptoms or outbreaks. Just now, now that there's another avian flu outbreak, that's more topical than ever. I think it is really important to look at how we can use vaccination as an instrument if there are outbreaks of infectious animal diseases. The motion by Mr De Groot and Mr Van Campen also asks for this. I sent a letter to the Chamber this week about how we deal with it. The researchers of the Faculty of Veterinary and Wageningen Bioveterinary Research are in consultation to do a test to test that vaccine. This concerns combating the spread of the now circulating H5N1 bird flu virus. In the first quarter of next year, I will inform the Chamber about the progress of that trial, because then we want to see what the possibilities are. Internationally, in the European Union, the importance of preventive vaccination against HPAI, the avian influenza virus, is also increasingly recognised. I am also in agreement with France to see how we can take further steps, because this is not limited to the Dutch borders. I will inform you as soon as I have more insight into what the possibilities are. Mrs Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg have specifically expressed concerns about exchanges and markets where exotic animals are traded. Let me say that I share the concerns they have expressed about these animal fairs. I am concerned about animal welfare, but also about possible zoonoses and their risks. In order to reduce that risk, we are going to take a number of steps. First of all, we in Europe are going to fight for a ban on imports and to be present at fairs of animals caught in the wild from outside Europe. Wild game capture has been banned for some time within the EU. Our CVO, our own chief veterinarian in the department, also placed this item on the agenda of the CVO meeting in December. He'll make an active plea for this. In addition, we look at the welfare and health risks of trade fairs with animals in the Netherlands. In doing so, we look at the current situation and find out exactly which species are offered at these fairs, in what quantities they are offered and what their origin is. This concerns not only the zoonoses risks, but also, for example, the way in which the animals have been transported. This week we carried out an action to detect and visualise the trade in these species. You will see the most horrible examples of transport of these animals. But you can also see, for example, how they are held at the fairs and to what extent contact between the animals and between the animals and the visitors is possible. It is therefore an assessment of animal welfare and animal health risks, but also an assessment of the risk of zoonoses. The task of this analysis is now being set out. I would also like to look at what measures are needed to reduce the risks of zoonoses and animal welfare. I am going to look specifically at the possibilities for the possible imposition of a ban on the trade in or display of certain animal species, but we also need a legal basis for such a ban. That's what's in the free movement of goods. I always think "goods" is a nasty term, but it is also about the free movement of animals within Europe. So we really need to look very clearly at the scope within the international framework, but also within the European framework, for such a ban to be implemented, and what is the basis for it. We must do this right, otherwise we will have measures, but then they can be challenged in court. And then we're not very much further. In addition, I will consider whether the existing instruments in the Animal Law can already strengthen supervision. That's what I do with the NVWA. So it is a package of measures, where we are going to look very closely at how we can reduce the risks, not only in zoonoses, but also in animal welfare. In this way, we want to be able to limit any unwanted outcomes. Finally, in this block: a point about goat farming. A number of Members of your Chamber have drawn attention to this. That is Mrs Bromet, Mrs Vestering and Mrs De Groot. They requested RIVM's investigation into an increased risk of pneumonia, in particular in goat farming. Oh, did I say "Mrs. De Groot"? Sorry. Mr. De Groot! Excuse me, excuse me. Mr. De Groot, of course. The Cabinet is currently conducting a major investigation into the cause of this increased risk. That is the so-called VGO research, livestock research and the health of local residents. I have recently informed your Chamber of this. That investigation is still ongoing and we do not yet have a conclusive explanation as to what the exact causes are. I do need them to have a point of reference, to have a basis for action. The provinces, of course, have the power to determine whether or not they impose restrictions on, for example, goat farming under the Land Planning Act. For this reason, eight provinces are also subject to a ban on the re-establishment and extension of goat farms. And I have also informed the Chamber on several occasions that I support these measures. There have also been some questions asked by your members about the other provinces: can we not take some more action there? I would like to say that I will enter into consultation with the provinces where the moratorium is not yet in force, to see what is or is not possible and what they are prepared to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u99	That was the cube of zoonoses and goats. Very good. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr De Groot or Mrs De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u100	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Minister for discussing this with the provinces, but this is very serious. On the one hand, you are right to work with your colleague from VWS with the Bekedam report. We also hear that it may be a zoonosis that we are talking about in relation to goat farming. It does require some serious action. And coincidentally in the province where I myself live for six months now, that's where it goes. The applications for goat farming go on and on, and that does not seem healthy to me, in any way. So it's a good thing the Minister talks, but please don't let that be a noncommittal conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u101	I take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u102	I hope for a more substantive answer than that. The Minister spoke about the Bekedam report, about zoonoses, that she is working very closely on it. But one of the aspects identified in that report is the long-distance transport of animals outside the EU. They were forbidden. They pose a risk, including in zoonoses. And we find it really incomprehensible that the Minister in Europe is going to argue for a ban, but is going to allow it again. And I think the foundation is really thin. I would like another response to that. Is it really not possible, especially at the risk of those zoonoses, not to allow that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u103	I banned those long-distance transports last year. That was on the basis of signals from German NGOs that in practice the conditions which those transports had to meet, namely the number of resting places that should be available and which should meet certain conditions, did not appear to exist at all. And that was the reason and also the possibility for me to say: then I suspend it, because you have to comply with the rules in order to be able to do those transports. These long-distance transports are regulated by a European regulation. That European regulation states that these transports are possible, provided those conditions are met. Vee & Logistics The Netherlands has themselves drawn up a plan of action, in which they indicate how they will comply with the rules that apply to them. I already know what Mrs Beckerman is going to ask: the butcher who approves his own meat. That is what she said in her own contribution, in my opinion. That's why I'm looking for opportunities to see how we can do the checks ourselves. I am not everywhere, in Russia, Ukraine or anything else, in order to be able to monitor all this precisely, so I also need information from NGOs, for example, but also from other countries in Europe where these long-distance transports take place, and of course I also need to keep an eye on them. So we are trying to join forces in Europe with other Member States to ensure that those conditions are actually met. And we'll see to that, too. But it is not so that now, independent from the Netherlands, I can decide that those long-distance transports are no longer allowed. And you know my view on these long-distance transports, because I think there are very good alternatives. Mr Graus also referred to this: carcass transport. You can also prevent all these animals from being transported over those long distances in other ways. But I really need to adapt that into a European regulation, and that is what my commitment is aimed at. So we actually have two tracks, where we stay focused on whether those rules are actually being followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u104	That is an extremely harsh answer, of course. And I also understand the Minister's struggle; I can see that very well. It is extremely bitter that there will be a lobby from Vee & Logistics Netherlands, from Helma Lodders, of course our former colleague, and that it will be allowed again. It's something the minister himself doesn't want. Then she has to say that measures are being sought to ensure that it is properly monitored. I find this aspect extremely painful. How bad are we all gonna be here when things go wrong again? We'd have had that chance. Then it was temporarily suspended. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u105	I also have to follow the rules and enforce the law. That's why my two tracks. I'm trying to get that adapted in Europe. From that regulation, I must allow it if those rules are to be complied with. If they can show how they do it, I can't just say, and yet I don't want to. We do live in a rule of law. Then we must also ensure that the rules are adapted, and this is done at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u106	Then I'm just gonna end this little interruption debate with perhaps a more hopeful point. I find it very painful how slow all the improvements in animal welfare are going. I think the Minister shares the analysis that a lot of people here have been saying that we have been talking about this for so long, sometimes for decades. One of those things that we've been talking about for a long time is killing those cockroaches, those one-day cockroaches. A motion by myself and Mrs Vestering was adopted on that. I'm very happy about that. Now the Minister says that she can come forward with a little more detail in the spring. Of course, we also know that 40 million roosters are killed every year. Germany and France are already shutting down. Can't the minister be a little more specific than "spring"? That just might save millions of chick lifes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u107	I'm very much in favour of looking at alternatives to kill those day-old chicks, those cocks. There's never anyone who lets animals be born and then kills them. There are now hopeful techniques on the market. That's what I told the Chamber. I would like to see how we can use it more broadly, as it were. That's what I asked the committee. I want to avoid that if we say that we do not do it here in this way, it will continue in another place. So there must also be effective in two places. We must ensure that we get good alternatives to this in the Netherlands. I'm really trying to put the pressure on that. I fully agree with Mrs Beckerman that if we can prevent that, we should do so right away. On the other hand, we also need to look at how we can prevent those day-old chicks, or those cocks, from ending up in another place where they suffer the same fate. I'll do my best to give the Chamber more insight into that soon. But they also need a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u108	Then there's my last question. We are now, of course, closer than ever, as far as those one-day cocktails are concerned. That's just a consequence of those very nice techniques. But that's also because France and Germany show that it can. Unfortunately, the Minister does not want to be more specific, but we will have a report in the spring. How long will it take until we can really adopt measures? Can the Minister at least outline a timetable for this? Krista van Velzen is my illustrious predecessor who has already argued for this. We are, of course, starting to get very impatient. The Minister is always in favour of settling matters at European level. Well, there are other countries that can do it. So we can't be left behind, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u109	I'm really gonna try to get that clear as soon as possible, and on that basis I'm gonna tell you what steps we're gonna take. But let that committee do its job for a moment! I was talking about spring. I understand Mrs Beckerman's impatience, but we feel the same impatience together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u110	We are talking about animal diseases, about animal diseases that can cross over from animal to human. That's what we saw in bird flu. We also see that it is not possible to get bird flu underneath in the Netherlands. It is now around the year in the Netherlands. We all know that goat farming poses a great deal of risk to public health, but we can see that the number of goats in goat farming has quadrupled since Q fever. Why doesn't the Minister set up an animal rights system for goats? That means you max out the number of goats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u111	If you want to do that, it'll take a lot of time. It's not like you just put in an animal rights system overnight. In fact, you are going to create a great deal of value in such a sector. For example, we are now looking more at customization in the buying-up of companies and so on. Then there is the danger that you will create a lot of value on the one hand, and then you will have to pay much more on the other. So I find the way through the provinces at this time actually the way we can go before we have a look at the results of the VGO. In this way, we can see exactly what is going to come out of these investigations and we really have a well-founded investigation, in which we show what the consequences are or are not. It may also be that the cause is not found in those goats, and then we must recognise that. So it's not like it can only go one way. That's why we need that research: to really know exactly what caused it. But if provinces say that based on the legal provision they themselves have, they are waiting for those studies, then I think that is also a way to take rapid action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u112	The Minister states that it takes a long time to reach such a settlement, to say that we do not want more goats in goat farming than is already the case. There's been four times as many since Q fever. Finally, however, it is now left to the provinces, and we have seen for many years now that this approach does not work. This minister says public health is number one. Therefore, this reply does not show this. I understand that it is not easy, but if the Minister claims that public health is number one, I ask her to ensure that she can take the power to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u113	But then I'd have to have a ground on which to do so. And that is exactly why I need that research: to see what is causing it and whether it is indeed also in goat farming. If that's the case, then we can take steps. But I'd like us to look carefully at the exact cause on the basis of that investigation. Until then, we can limit it by means of land-use planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is my first interruption. Just so you know. I would like to thank the Minister very much for dealing with illegal trade, including with reptiles and so on. They're terrible things. They took a crocodile out of a basement somewhere near me. But here's what I want to say. I am very pleased: we already have very good legislation and a lot of bans and you name it. But why are there always recidivists among the animal executioners? Because they don't get caught with their laces or their laces, because those animal executioners often have something to compensate for and because they're not thrown in jail. They don't get a lifetime ban on keeping animals. They don't get towering fines. If they kill animals that cause children a great deal of grief, or if they kill a bunny that wakes a child for weeks, they do not have to pay for the cost of cremation or veterinary costs, if an animal is injured. And because of that we always have recidivism or is it recidivism? I believe recividating animal executioners. Of course, that's very sad. So my question is: can the Minister go into conclave with the Minister of Justice and Security about how we are really going to do something? This is an approved motion from me and Lilian Helder, also an animal friend the PVV. That is what we asked for, and that has never really been done. They did go to jail, but it's all too noncommittal. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u115	I think we have come to an end with Mr Graus, because there is currently a bill on animal abuse and animal neglect pending before your Chamber. It's with another committee, JenV's committee. This legislative proposal allows the recurrent animal executioners referred to by Mr Graus to be dealt with more firmly. That new law also provides for the possibility of imposing an independent restraining ban of up to 10 years. That is double the penalty rate now included in the Code of Criminal Law. So I think Mr Graus has come to an end. It's precisely because of his motion that there's a bill now. Of course, it is up to the Chamber how quickly that can be dealt with, but as far as I am concerned, that is as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u116	I know that bill, of course. But there are also people like those slaughterhouses. They are playing soccer with chickens and they are pulling pigs to their ears and throwing them alive in boiling water. Of course, these people need to be taken out of society. They're sick as hell. You're gonna have to give that one an acute restraining order. Think also of Tommy's abusers, that dog that seems to have been beaten by five policemen for a long time. There's terrible footage of that. That really took almost an hour. These people must, of course, be banned immediately. Surely it cannot be that we have an animal police force and that colleagues from the animal police, who are supposed to lead by example, can simply torture a dog and shoot out the eyes and taser that dog? He also had burns, even in his genitals, I know what they've done with it. You just can't have these people working with the police now, can you? And it can't be that people work in slaughterhouses who have actually tortured animals? That's got nothing to do with the bill. Those people must be given immediate imprisonment, massive fines, a life-long ban and a professional ban. They're never allowed to work with animals again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u117	Very specific on the dog Tommy case. In my view, Mr Graus has also asked me a question about this through an interruption. I know what happened to that dog, Tommy, and I really hate it. Let me put that in front of you. It's horrible how that beast got beat up. I've made inquiries, and right now, the D.A. is investigating exactly what happened. And then it works that we have to wait for the results of that investigation before we determine what happened there and what the consequences might be. So that's being investigated at the moment. I think that, precisely with the bill I mentioned, there will be more opportunities to impose sanctions on people who are seriously mistreating an animal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u118	I would like to come back to goat farming for a moment. As far as I know, no other factors are taken into account in the health research. However, the report states that it may "have other factors as well." Is it an idea to include other factors in a follow-up study? East Brabant, for example, is close to the Ruhr area, which is an industrial-intensive area. Part of it can also be caused by the combination of particulate matter from the industry. Is it an idea to take everything with you? You'll get a much better insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u119	This is a long-term investigation, because we want to see exactly what the causes are and what the result is. We're already seeing a few things. RIVM is already investigating that. For example, pneumonia is more common in a 500 meter radius around such a company. Researchers have not yet been able to demonstrate a direct link that this would be due to goat farming or to other factors. It's really a complex investigation. That's why it's been going on for quite a while. In any case, it will have to be considered whether it is related to goat farming. When other aspects are added, you make it more complex. Most of all, you want to know if it's goat farming or not. That is exactly what we are investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u120	Then where is it that that causal link can't be found? I'm really wondering. I am also concerned that animals and humans are healthy. But what's it about? If it isn't found all the time, what good is it? We can do another 100 tests, but if this keeps coming out, we won't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u121	For the record, I'm not a scientist. I leave this to the experts and researchers who know it most. You look at one factor to see if there is a cause, without knowing from other areas whether there are causes there. I think it is important to see if it is related, for example, to that goat farming. That's exactly what they're looking at. That causal link has not yet been established, but the investigation has not yet been completed. That is why we need to continue with this VGO so that we can really draw conclusions on whether or not we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u122	But is there an end date? You can say "we're gonna keep investigating" and "it's an ongoing investigation," but how long do you keep investigating until you come to the conclusion that you can't pinpoint exactly what it's about, after which you're either gonna quit or, better yet, look at other factors? In the meantime, this goat farming is locked up in some provinces. I understand from the Minister that it is being worked on, perhaps as a precaution, to ask other provinces to stop expanding goat farms. This is going to stop sustainability, because no development area also means that you cannot modernise the stable with modern techniques. So I don't know if you're getting along with it. Anyway, that's another discussion. So, yeah, how long does it take? When are we gonna do something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u123	The research has been delayed due to covid, because the researchers were not able to join the companies either. What I have now understood is that they expect to have this part of the investigation completed in 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u124	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u125	Yes. Then I come to the block of animal welfare. Mrs Vestering made many comments on this in her contribution. I have to take a look, because I've just given some answers in an interruption. Mrs Vestering was particularly critical of the steps taken in this period to improve animal welfare. I always think it's okay if we're kept focused on these kinds of parts. I understand that Mrs. Vestering sometimes wants to go further in that than I do. But that nothing happened, I can't say that at all. I just mentioned the life-long restraining order... No, not for life. I mean the restraining order in the law that is now in this Chamber through J&V's colleague. Steps have also been taken, for example, with regard to pet animals. I shall come back to that in a moment. Those are a number of parts that we really did catch in this period. We have also embarked on a journey on animal husbandry. I recently sent a report on this from the RDA to your room. I've asked the RDA to produce such a report. If we are to take the integrated approach to agriculture as a whole, then I want us to look at what this means for animal husbandry. This view of the RDA also gives advice on how these livestock systems can be shaped around the needs of the animal. This need is put at the centre, so that these animals can experience a positive state of well-being within such a system. To be honest, the transition needed for this is not an easy task. After all, we come from a current system. You should actually go to another animal welfare system. It takes time, resources and effort. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't be working on it. I think we should take those steps. Here too, however, it is true that all those involved, both the government and the chain, as well as the retail sector, but also the consumer, have a role to play in this. It's the only way we can do that. I am now looking at that view and how it can support us in making policies for future-proof livestock farming. I have already announced that in spring 2022 I will come forward with a more substantive response to the proposals made by the RDA to improve this. Mr Graus mentioned the inclusion of animal rights in the Constitution. I understood from him that he, whether or not with the Animal Party, was trying to incorporate this in a proposal. He also asked me if we could provide any support in that regard. I would like to inform you that I am always prepared to provide official support if it is requested by Members of Parliament if they themselves have a legislative proposal in preparation. It's always very neat. I don't know anything about that. I don't hear any of that. This is always shared only between officials and MPs. But if Mr Graus needs it and he has a proposal, then there is the possibility of getting official support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u126	Mr. Graus, I'm gonna finish this block and we're gonna do some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u127	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u128	I had also been asked whether I would like to make an effort for prosecutors who specifically focus on animals. Within the Public Prosecutor's Office, there has been a development of knowledge in the field of animals in recent years, partly as a result of an increase in the number of cases submitted. There are contact points per district in the field of animal-related crime, which exchange knowledge and expertise among themselves. The Public Prosecutor's Office is not in favour of specific prosecutors for only animal-related matters, but I am willing to talk to the Public Prosecutor about strengthening the expertise of the contact points per district. The D.A. says we don't want specific officers. However, if we can make a contribution to broadening the knowledge for other prosecutors, then I would like to pledge this to Mr Graus. Mr Graus also had a question about the cheetah. Do we want to record the cheetah in the Big Cats Task Force? The first steps for this Big Cats Taskforce have been taken. We are also one of the financiers of this. An investigation is being carried out into the illicit trade. That's a big deal about the cats. The CITES Standing Committee in March will further discuss these activities and the next steps. The task force also focuses on the cheetah. So it's being taken into account. Then the status of the lion within CITES. That's what we talked about last year. Then Mr Graus asked if I could see if the lion on the CITES list could reach a higher level of protection. I have discussed the upslisting of the African lion within the EU. This list, of course, is not only from the Netherlands, but it must also be discussed within the EU. For this purpose, the usual procedure of scientific analysis and decision-making is now followed. If I know more about that, I'll inform your room about it. Unfortunately, the CITES conference on this subject was postponed in connection with COOVID-19. It will now take place next year. We have therefore brought the matter before the Court of Justice. The procedure to see if this is possible is now being followed. Then the ban on the sale of dogs with sickening characteristics. Mr Graus asked for it. He asked, "Can't you get a ban on the sale of dogs with these sickening characteristics?" The Decision already provides for no serious abnormalities and diseases to be passed on when breeding dogs. The dogs bred in the Netherlands must therefore comply with this Decision. A sales ban on top of that doesn't have much value, because it's already not allowed. So it's hard to sell them. I cannot do so much about dogs from abroad that are not allowed to be bred in the Netherlands, because of the free movement of people, goods, etc. I just have to allow animals coming to the Netherlands from another country to be sold here. Therefore, it is more effective to consider how to prevent those animals from being imported. We made a whole package for that, with chimps, the passport, et cetera. To close the grid much more, you need to tackle this at European level. That's not easy. I have talked to my European colleagues about this on a regular basis, because there are terrible practices. In any case, I cannot impose a ban on the sale of animals from other Member States. You don't solve the problem with that. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to my last point in this block. That is part of a question from Mr Wassenberg. It's about cooking lobster alive. He asked me if I wanted to take steps to ban the live cooking of lobsters and crabs. I understand his question very well. You sometimes wonder why these animals still need to be cooked alive. Recently there has been research from the United Kingdom in which it seems clear that these animals also have feelings, or at least have incentives for them to experience pain, etc. The European Commission has recently asked EFSA whether it would like to see more scientific evidence of the welfare of certain invertebrates, such as crabs and lobsters. In any case, I welcome the fact that this is going to be done at EU level. I actually think that the chefs and restaurants should also see for themselves how they can do this in a different way. I understand that there are already many restaurants that say: we are certainly not cooking those animals alive anymore, because that can also be done in another way. You kill them all at once and then you process them in a dish. I would actually like to see what else I can do to allow this to be practiced in the Netherlands. My commitment is that we will at least see what is possible here. I have to say, I don't eat them. So I don't know if it matters in taste either, but I think it's really possible to kill the animals faster, without cooking them alive, and then processing them. So I am prepared to see how we can introduce it more broadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u129	Was this the block of animal welfare? That's the case. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u130	Mr President, I would like to put my friends in Limburg first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u131	Then Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u132	I'm grateful to use that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Graus. The minister says EFSA's gonna look into it. EFSA has already looked at it. There's a report on lobsters and crabs from 2005, I believe 183 pages. On page 16 it says in the conclusions: crabs, lobsters and octopus have consciousness, they exhibit complex behavior and they can feel pain. Then 300 more articles were added. How much more research do we need? What else should EFSA do? It is well known: crabs and lobsters can feel pain. So we don't need any more research, because then we'll still be standing here at midnight. We need steps. That's what I'm asking the Minister. Now take those steps and sort them out. Make sure that the animals we just talked about, those crabs, lobsters and octopuses, are recognized as living creatures with feeling, just like the United Kingdom has done, and make sure that steps are taken to prevent them from cooking alive. No more research, but concrete steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u133	I have indicated that the European Commission is going to investigate this. That's not my investigation. The European Commission has announced that it wants to do so and has asked EFSA to do so. I think that's fine in itself. But I hope that Mr Wassenberg has also heard the second part of my reply. That was because I want to see how I can ensure that this is no longer the practice in restaurants or anywhere else in the Netherlands. If you want to settle it all legally, you do need certain arguments and so on. I think we should take a practical look at it first. How else can we stop these animals from being cooked alive? I also understand that in chef training there is already attention to other methods that exist. I want to see how I can make that more suitable. We don't have to cook the animals alive if there are also ways to kill them faster and with less pain if they end up in a dish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u134	Mr President, with your permission, I would like to say the following. This all sounds a little too noncommittal to me: we're gonna watch, we're gonna talk. Anyway, I have a limited number of interruptions. I would like to ask another question on an issue on which I asked questions in the first term, but which I have not yet received an answer to, not even in writing. This concerns the sale of dolphins, walruses and sea lions by the Dolphinarium to a Chinese amusement park called Hainan Ocean Paradise. That doesn't sound like a zoo, it sounds like an amusement park, and it is. The Minister has already said that the Dolphinarium must carry out research or the Dutch welfare standards are applied there. Of course it isn't. The Dolphinarium itself is not going to look at that either, but that is what the government should do. All they do is see if the good stamps are in the right place, but eventually those animals have to jump through hoops. The Minister cannot in any way guarantee that the Dutch or European welfare rules will be enforced there. The Minister cannot guarantee that these dolphins will not be sold to another amusement park within two weeks or two months, because there are still dozens in China. The only thing we know for sure is that these animals have to do tricks and that animal welfare is not guaranteed in any way. There's a lawsuit going on right now. I am not asking the Minister to give a ruling on this either. I won't. The only thing I want to ask the Minister is: how can she guarantee, with a 100% guarantee, that these animals will be kept immediately in the way that the Netherlands would like them to be kept? They're in bad shape at the Dolphinarium, but in Hainan Ocean Paradise they're going to be much worse. If the Minister cannot guarantee the above, is she prepared simply not to issue a new export licence when the current one expires? Those animals aren't supposed to be in a Chinese amusement park.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u135	I think I answered that question in writing. The written reply states that the export licence has indeed been suspended at the moment. The case is on January 6th. Nor can I anticipate the outcome of that trial now. I'm gonna have to let that go for a while. It is also really up to the Dolphinarium to demonstrate how animal welfare is secured in China. There really is a task for the Dolphinarium. I don't have to do that. They must do so, but we must then assess whether it is sufficient or not. There's a lawsuit going on right now. So I can't say much more than this, because otherwise I'm intervening in that trial. I don't think that's very appropriate either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u136	Also made in Limburg, or maybe they made it somewhere else, that's possible. At least he was born there. I would like to thank the Minister for the many commitments I have made. I'm very grateful for that. That really gives me a lot more quieter Christmas days, which are very important for me and also for all animals. Thanks for the lions and the cheetahs, too. I had indeed asked for the extension of CITES list II to list I. I've asked about the vice officers out there. Why aren't there any animal officers coming? Now I may be able to make it easier, because I have the literal text here. In fact, I said: the theme sessions on live property of the North Holland parquet and the East Netherlands parquet should, as in Belgium, apply to the whole of the Netherlands. In Belgium they already do it, so that has an example function. In addition to vice officers, we should also have animal officers. Suppose the minister doesn't manage to push the animal officers right through. Maybe we can all make a nice motion for that, too. The theme sessions are already here. Then why aren't they already going to apply to the whole country? There the Minister, the shepherd of our sheep, the keeper of the animals, may already be able to come out together with the Minister of Justice. Then we are already going to take a first step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u137	I'm going over my policy area a little bit now. I do not know exactly how that works in practice either. I admit that to Mr Graus. This is about special sessions which are then possible. I don't exactly see that. I apologize. I think that we are trying to find a very practical solution to the point raised by Mr Graus, namely that the officers are not specifically assigned to animals and animal-related matters, but that there is broad knowledge of these aspects with the prosecutors. Then they can make sure that that knowledge is much more. That can also help in business. So I would really like to stick to this practical commitment right now. For the rest, I can't see very well what Mr Graus is saying. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u138	We're going to block nine. I'd appreciate it if the Minister would stop the turbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u139	I'll do my best. I'm also trying to serve the members with the answers. The block of NVWA. Several questions have been asked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u140	Still on the previous point, animal welfare, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u141	Interrupt number four, this is it. Then I have one more question. Because I had asked... Wait, I'll just have to pack it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u142	Take your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u143	Yeah, I'll take my time. There was one question the Minister answered in writing. It's part of animal welfare, so I have to put it here. The Minister has answered the question, but that is wrong. I did not ask to criminalise the beating of animals like kicks. I did say that, but I said: why do we not know layering in animals in the heaviness of abuse, as in humans? In humans, we have a layering of abuse. In animals, it isn't. When you hit an animal, you always get off well, when you don't have to beat an animal at all, not even educationally. That little tap is really out of date. You're just traumatizing an animal with it. You should never make a beating move towards an animal, to any animal. The Minister may also come back to it in the second term, but it was not as answered as I had asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u144	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u145	The question is why there is no layering in the penalty?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u146	Yes. Indeed, I have asked that the beating of animals should be punishable by kicking. You replied to that. It's not right now. If someone kicks a dog now and the animal police see it or someone makes a video of it, then the animal police can act on it. But when someone hits a dog, you have to prove that you suffered that injury. You don't have to kick. That's ridiculous. In a lot of animals, it's very difficult to show that they have a hematoma. Then you really should take it to the vet. Then they'll have to do with the fur. Then they should check it out. It's got to be the same, right? Whether you kick or hit an animal? I did indeed ask whether there could be any heaviness in criminalisation, as is the case with people. Why would that be different for animals? Animals are more hypertensive. They're much more sensitive to pain and stress than humans. So why did we arrange it well for people and not for animals? Those animals don't have to be in pain or stress, do they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u147	I really have to come back to this in the second term, because that also has to do with the law and the penal provisions contained in it. I'm not ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u148	Then we'll go to NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u149	Yes, because a number of questions have been asked about that. Mr Thijssen mentioned, among other things, the imbalance in tasks and resources. I've had that examined myself, which gives us a clear view of what this imbalance looks like. Mrs Vestering has also made a point of this. She said: this has been going on for a long time; more action must be taken on this. We have tried to make it clear what the consequences of this imbalance are and also that sharp choices need to be made at the moment in the work of the NVWA, so that we can ensure that all tasks are carried out. We also make this visible in the annual plan that we send to your Chamber every year. I try to ensure the long-term stability of the NVWA as well as possible. Together with the NVWA, we are currently looking critically at the scope of the task package, but also at improving the enforcement and feasibility of the laws and regulations. One point that Mrs Vestering mentioned, among other things, is open standards. I have said before that I would like to fill it in in parts, so that there is no discussion on how to maintain it, but on the other hand there can also be uncertainty in practice, such as: am I being judged fairly? Those are always two sides of the same coin. In order to ensure that the NVWA's declarations are properly ensured, resources will be needed. That's what I've been telling you before. The fact is that I do not have these resources in the budget at the moment. I didn't make these things clear for nothing. I hope that this is well heard in other places around The Hague. It's really on the board of a next cabinet to take care of those resources. The monitoring of fisheries regulations was also specifically requested. Following the letter of formal notice by the European Commission, it was asked how this would be foreseen at NVWA. We want to increase NVWA's capacity in this area by 15.2 fte, in order to ensure that we can properly shape the enforcement and monitoring of fisheries regulations. Mrs Vestering also referred to the monitoring of the slaughter process. I think she mentioned very specific poultry. Let me keep saying that that is not to run away, because we have an NVWA to supervise............................................................................................................................................................................................. We don't have it for nothing. We must ensure that the rules on food safety, but certainly also on animal welfare, are complied with there. The NVWA supervises that. NVWA also maintains, in line with the intervention policy, if it appears that animal welfare is being harmed in a slaughterhouse. I think that last summer we saw a concrete example at a slaughterhouse in which it was rather pregnant; let me put it this way. There was also real action after several violations had been visible. Those were really horrible images. There's been a lot of pressure to make things different. Mrs Vestering also asked about the influence of the speed of slaughter. It has our full attention. Last year, the Chamber adopted two motions calling for a reduction in the speed of slaughter. I also informed your Chamber last year that I cannot simply impose a structural, generic reduction, but that I must have a legal basis for that. We have started an investigation to show what the correlation is between animal welfare and food safety, for example, and the rate of slaughter, to see if we can get a picture of those risk factors, but also to determine what the rate of slaughter is at which they can be properly secured. This research is carried out by Wageningen University, Utrecht University and a number of experts. I expect the results of this investigation at the beginning of next year. That investigation can therefore be used to determine the correct rate of slaughter. Until then, as I have said, the NVWA should not increase the slaughter rate. I want to know what the results of the investigation are first. Mr. Chairman. These were the questions in the NVWA's field.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u150	The Minister said for a while that yesterday the Animal Party was very critical of the LNV budget in the first term. This has to do with the fact that we slaughter 1.7 million animals a day in the Netherlands. If we then adopt a motion in the House of Representatives a long time ago in which we say'make sure immediately that the rate of slaughter is reduced' and the Minister still refers to investigations that need to be carried out, then surely it is no good at all? It is about so many animals a day, it is about so many animals that are being caused so much misery. The NVWA is not even able to supervise because it cannot perform two thirds of the tasks. I wonder what steps the Minister has taken in this area, without referring to investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u151	I think that last summer we took a very concrete action at a slaughterhouse where there were quite a few abuses. For a long time they have not been able to slaughter at all, and at the moment they are under a regime of tighter supervision, examining whether or not they still meet the conditions. I didn't use this case as a signal, but as far as I'm concerned, it's the signal that can't just do everything. We just have laws and regulations in this country, and we have a supervisor who oversees that. At the same time, I must have some justification for saying that a slaughter line can or cannot be speeded up. If I do not have that justification, a slaughterhouse will be able to go to court fairly quickly and then the judge will ask: what is the proportionality of that measure? It is precisely in order to ensure that we have a clear view and precisely in order to ensure that we can take the right steps, that I do need that research for the long term. But that is unrelated to the fact that if there are abuses now, the NVWA simply intervenes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u152	That's just bullshit. The NVWA cannot intervene at all, because it is just not even present in many places. The motion adopted by the House of Representatives to reduce the speed of slaughter immediately was adopted two years ago. This means that the Minister has been doing research for two years now and is referring to it. That's not how it works! I find it really unacceptable that the Minister is still referring to all kinds of investigations that should take place before she can take a step. I would like to ask the Minister one more time: why do you not carry out the motion two years ago to reduce the speed of slaughter with immediate effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u153	Because then Mrs. Vestering won't get what she's asking. Because then the measure is unsubstantiated and he is shot down in court. It is precisely to ensure that we have a clear view, that we can determine with each other what the rate of slaughter is, that I need that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u154	The seventh interruption of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u155	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I realize that the reservoir of interruptions is now rapidly drying up. I asked the Minister about controls by the NVWA on illegal dog trafficking. The NVWA announced last year: we will not check in 2021 because of covid. On 4 October it was said that we are going to check again, on the basis of new European regulations. But covid has now acted again, so the question is: will the NVWA maintain? I have a very concrete example. Today I read at House of Animals about a very infamous dog breeder and dealer in Diessen, who has traded thousands of puppies over the last year. Over 800 have disappeared from the registration system. So they've been purchased, but they can't be found anymore. Are they dead? Were they sold illegally? Nobody knows. It's been reported that those numbers are all there, but the NVWA doesn't check. So I ask the Minister: will the NVWA check and will she also check the breeder in Diessen? I can offer the data on a platter. If the Minister says "I would like to know more about this case," I can give all the information to the Minister behind the scenes in the hope that she will say: yes, we will investigate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u156	I'm not gonna step into what the NVWA is investigating or not. It is only the case that checks have been carried out again this year. In my opinion, there has been another example of a breeder who had practices that were not acceptable and where the NVWA has actually acted. So there are very recent examples of this. I don't know if she's got this case in her sights. I'm not driving where she has to act or not. The NVWA can do that very well itself. She has the same authority. It's not like dogs aren't being checked for right now. It is true that earlier with covid the visits were stopped because not good distance could be kept et cetera, but we are now of course a bit further into the pandemic. You had a debate on this last night. There is covid and we have to implement the basic measures, but we are also, of course, a little further in that process, for example, with vaccinations. The NVWA can therefore do more in this area and does more in this area at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u157	My last interruption, Mr. Chairman. That's good to hear, because that's really very important. I heard about the same breeder from Diessen that a lot of complaints came in last year. In 50 cases, NVWA found that dogs were sold younger than in the papers. This also means that they haven't been vaccinated, because they're too young for that. This can also have a major impact on the health of both animals and humans. And yet they get away with it every time. There have been so many times over the past few years... I mean, anyone who's a little bit on this subject knows which breeder I mean when I call the word "Diessen." That's the place, not the breeder. I won't mention that name. But it's very easy to check. They get away with it every time, and they're still going on. It's thousands of puppies a year. On the Internet you will only find complaints about it. So I ask the Minister one more time: put the NVWA on it one time. The information can be presented on a platter. I'll give the Minister the information later. So my question is to make sure that this breeding operation, that trader in Diessen, is really dealt with properly. This is extremely necessary, not only for dogs, but also for all customers who are being duped and for public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u158	In general, trade in dogs that are ill, that are ill treated and that do not meet the conditions of how we want them to be dealt with, also for the new owners, is not acceptable. Let me be quite clear about that. But it goes a long way if I say now: yes, I'm going to deal with it and not with it. That really is the authority of the NVWA. Well, the NVWA is listening in on this debate. But I'm not going to say now: it's being handled and it's not. That really is the supervisory authority. I would like to keep that division of roles that way, because otherwise we will end up in weird constructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u159	Fine. The final theme. I would very much like to move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u160	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. Nature. Several questions have been asked about this. Mr Boswijk asked me about the Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas, the so-called IBAs. We don't all make up the abbreviations ourselves. If we want to protect areas better, this could threaten farmers who successfully operate agricultural grazing birds. That really is an example of where the responsibility of agriculture and nature comes together and where we have to look closely at how these two interests come together in a good way. The Netherlands is of great importance in the world for meadow birds. We want to keep it that way. We do this to a large extent with the use of voluntary agricultural grazing bird management. That is precisely why I would like to look at how we can better shape that structuralally, long-term. In the areas where the meadow birds thrive, thanks to the use of the farmers, there is in principle no need to adapt their operations. The birds thrive there thanks to good management. It is important to work with each other on the long-term guarantees so that we can see the results. Agricultural nature and landscape management is one of the vehicles we use for this purpose. The evaluation of this agricultural nature and landscape management also provides good recommendations for continuing on that road. The report on Important Bird Areas was prepared by Sovon and Vogelbescherming, on its own initiative. This does not give any reason to designate large-scale new Natura 2000 sites for breeding meadow birds, let me be clear about that. The report identifies two areas which are important for breeding meadow birds and which are not already protected. In these two areas it is rare breeding of the kephan, which only nests in nature reserves. They already breed in nature reserves, so they do not need to be protected for breeding in agricultural areas again. I know Mrs Bromet as someone who looks optimistic about the future, but I found her a bit gloomy last night, also about the impact that her own proposals have had. In fact, I think that Mrs Bromet is somewhat lacking in this. I think the essence of politics isn't always that you do something on day one, that you get it done on day two, and that it happens on day three. It is often the case that you keep putting things on the agenda with a long breath, and she may know that more than I do, and she keeps getting on with it, in order to increase the pressure. In the end, this will also produce results. Not to fall into the arms of Mrs Bromet now, but I think she underestimates herself if she doesn't think she has. On the contrary, I see a lot of proposals where that has happened. It has most of the own-initiative papers in its name in this committee. I didn't count them all, I must say, but there are several. I do not want to take anything away from the valuable work of other colleagues. She herself mentioned her own initiative paper on soil decline in peat meadow areas. I remember the last one... green in town. She defended it with Mr Boswijk. I dare say that Mrs Bromet has also been at the root of the forestry strategy. It was drawn up after Mrs Bromet had already put this issue on the agenda. You don't always have a direct impact, but I think that way you can do things indirectly through the band. I do see Mrs Bromet's valuable work and I hope she can look back on it herself. With regard to specific measures for the peat meadow areas, there are a lot of pilots to look at the measures needed. At the pilot in polder Lange Weide in Driebruggen, the level decision has been adapted, in combination with area-oriented construction of underwater drainage. Similar pilots take place in Fryslân, North and South Holland and Northwest Overijssel. There is also, under the leadership of Alderman Niezen in Gouda, a successful regional deal on soil decline in the Green Hart, which looks at solutions in both rural and urban areas with great dedication and enthusiasm. The provinces now also draw up regional Veenweide strategies. It includes measures to reduce the degradation of peat, soil degradation and greenhouse gas emissions from peat meadows. I understand that the province of Fryslân has now released all its Veenweide strategy and that the rest will follow very soon. I'd say that's where we really took steps. Mrs Bromet may judge whether that is sufficient or not, but something is really happening. In the Green Town Initiative Paper, we have also discussed in detail what actions are being taken, including to promote ecological berm management. A motion was adopted during the debate to establish a standard for ecological berm management. You asked me to do it, and I'm going to do it. In the context of ecological berm management, we will also ensure that as many practical examples as possible for municipalities, provinces and executive organisations can be shared. We also look at what knowledge and training are available in this field, who can make use of it and what training opportunities are available. Those steps are already being taken. Finally, her question about the rebellion, the wildness of nature. Last year Mrs Bromet gave me a booklet on this. I think that was during the budgetary procedure. Several places already work with the use of natural processes. Following last year's motion, we are now also working on a bundle on rewilding. This is done in collaboration with extraordinary professor Rewilding Ecology, Prof.Dr. Bakker, to see how rewilding relates to nature policy and to deepen it further. If everything goes well and goes according to schedule, this bundle will be shared with the Chamber at the beginning of 2022. And then with the provinces and the land managers the discussion can be held about whether, how and where wildlife, rewilding, can be given a further place in nature management in the Netherlands. Mr De Groot specifically asked me about the nature of the BES islands in the Caribbean Netherlands, about the coral. He asked how we could prevent further damage to the coral and what projects would be a risk to the coral. The Caribbean Netherlands Nature and Environmental Policy Plan aims to prevent further deterioration and damage to nature. We have already started that plan, in particular for the protection of coral. New projects and activities must always be put back to the measurement of current laws and regulations in the areas of nature, environment and spatial planning. This ensures as much as possible that coral damage is prevented. In the Nature and Environmental Policy Plan Caribbean Netherlands, I work together with the Minister of IenW and the Minister of the Interior to strengthen enforcement and review. Because law and rules are one, but you still have to abide by them. Mr De Groot also asked when the implementation agendas of the Caribbean Netherlands Nature and Environmental Policy Plan were ready. These have been in operation since 2020, in particular for the protection of coral. The first steps have also been taken in the areas of erosion control and improvement of water quality and enforcement and monitoring. All these issues are also included in the implementation agendas. These implementation agendas have been set administratively, but still have to be approved by the Island Council. I understand that this will take place in the short term. As soon as such approval has been granted, it shall be forwarded to the Chamber. But this is really on the island council now. Mr Grinwis had another specific question about the National Real Estate Company. He went into a case in which someone had rented out for a long time from the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. That contract was terminated, actually, because it was always a one-year lease. He asked me if I was willing to look with colleagues Knops and Hoekstra at what we can do to make long-term contracts the standard. I have regular contact with my colleague, the Secretary of State for BZK. This has contributed to the experiments carried out by the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf. The National Real Estate Company indicates that it is usually leased for a period of four to six years. That is an improvement in itself. I will discuss this further in order to be able to take further steps. Sometimes you do need a shorter lease, for example because there are possible construction plans or because there are development plans for certain land. As a result, a short-term lease is offered until such time as a specific lease has been completed. I will discuss with the BZK colleague how we can ensure that the short-term one-year lease can only be used in exceptional cases, so when there really is a specific reason for this, and is no longer the standard if it is used in other places. Then Crown Domain Het Loo. Mr Wassenberg asked about the status of ownership, the gift certificate and the usufruct. In the opinion of the government, the gift certificate is a notarial act. And according to the Crown Domain Law, the King possesses the benefit of the Crown Domain. This means that both the proceeds and the costs will be borne by the King. And because this actually corresponds to the provincial requirement that one should be a owner or a landowner, and there is already a requirement that all land is within the Crown Domain, no additional requirements are imposed on the property form in the grant terms for the Crown Domain. Then in this cube, finally, the honey side cabinets. Mrs Vestering also had a question about this. I know the case a bit, because my family lives near De Biesbosch, so I followed that with some interest back then, indeed. So that with those cupboards almost a kind of............................................................................................................ Depending on local regulations, e.g. the general local regulations, honey closets can be placed on their own premises or in areas where an appointment has been made with the owner. So that really has a very local component. So that's hard to steer from the Ministry, because that really sees on the APVs out there. But what I do want to do is I want to see what can happen there to see what is needed; so if you see that happening on a large scale, who can send out what signal and what the possibilities are for it. This is, of course, about areas which belong to the organisations involved in the field. When people put that on their own land, it is of course more difficult to limit that; then you really have to go back to those APVs. But at least I will look at what can be done about this with the organisations involved in the field. That was this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u161	I had another question about the Caribbean. It's nice to see the Minister's already on the job. It is also nice that she agrees with IenW's colleague. However, I saw that fellow proudly sign a contract about a year ago for the construction of a large oil tanker pier at Bonaire, on top of the coral. Then I wonder: is that wise, because there isn't that much coral left? So this enforcement also applies here, between the departments, and I expect the Minister of LNV to say to her colleague: we are not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u162	This is a very specific case. Also for the Caribbean Netherlands, the laws and regulations that apply to them also apply to nature. I will make specific enquiries for the second period for this case. But here too, what is worthy of protection must also be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u163	I agree entirely, but perhaps we should strengthen the legal framework and make it comparable to what we have in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u164	Let me check the specific case of this for the second term. Then I come to the block of nature in relation to the CAP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u165	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u166	It may still be part of animal welfare, but I'm just gonna ask them now, then it's over. Look, emergency line 144, save an animal. So we want that to really go from hotline to dispatch. I mentioned that in my contribution. There are currently 24 fte and they need 32. I have already discussed this with my colleagues from the VVD in the Members' refectory that we have. That should not be the problem at all; these are not heavy budgets. But can the Minister also make an effort, please? Home Affairs is also involved, because 30% of all 144 notifications are mayors. These are animal journeys, which are once again the responsibility of the mayor. So Homeland has something to do with that, too, but also Justice and Security. So we really have to save 144, eh, because they can not only save many animals in time, but also take many animal executioners out of society and therefore prevent a lot of other violence towards people. Mr. Chairman, I have a few more interruptions. By the way, I was just told, and I didn't know, and Mr Wassenberg will also be very sorry that Dr Albert Weijman died. That's someone Frank and I knew very well. He was also in my mind when it comes to pestilence and pestilence, but he also helped me set up all the interviews on animal rights in the Constitution. He was in the KAD, he was the pest expert. He's also discovered that barn fires don't just happen, but they're gnawing. I'm just getting that. So I didn't know that, but I'm totally devastated by that. They are losing a very large, expert biologist who has assisted a lot of MPs. I wish his family and daughters all the best. I think I should do that on behalf of everyone, because many Members of Parliament have known him and the Minister has heard a lot about him. I'm sorry we have to move on to the order of the day now. It hurts me so much. By the way, I'm gonna stop. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u167	The Minister continues and Mr Graus asks his question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u168	Very good. And my condolences also for the death of Mr Graus' good acquaintance. Then I'm going back to nature and the CAP. Mr De Groot specifically asked about the grutto. He asked if there could be sufficient funds to finance the Grutto Attack Plan. That's my intention, isn't it? I am currently looking at the provinces to see what they can do and to use resources from the second pillar of the CAP. I believe that next week we will have another debate on CAP-NSP. I hope to be able to say a little more about that. That's being worked on right now. We'll see what we can do there. Mr De Groot also asked about the landscape elements. He asked if the registration by 2023 is now arranged. That's definitely the stakes. With the RVO, I will do everything I can to ensure that the registration of these agricultural landscape elements is ready as of 1 January 2023, so that this can also take place at the start of the new CAP. I think that we have taken a significant step in the protection, conservation and, hopefully, the construction of these landscape elements. After all, it was a Chamber-wide motion that was adopted here. In order to finance the construction of these landscape elements, I am looking at whether I have any options in the future budget available in the CAP. We're really going to see if there are any possibilities in that. Perhaps that is a part of the debate on CAP-NSP which we will be able to go further next week. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the fishing block by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u169	Thanks to the Minister for trying to cheer me up a little bit. But for me, an initiative paper is not a final product. When I make an own-initiative paper, I am happy when a note on the Tree Plan is translated into a forest strategy, but we are not there yet. Then we've gone from paper to paper. The point is that we go from paper to policy implementation. For example, the Minister says that she is going to implement a motion on roadside management which was adopted last year during this budget debate. However, you would expect that if you adopted a motion last year, that motion was carried out this year and that this year is not the reassuring message that that motion will be carried out. It's not because I'm so impatient, but it's also because nature is deteriorating every year and the climate is deteriorating. So we're in a bit of a hurry. We can't write things down and rewrite them all the time. We just have to do things. I therefore ask the Minister why she has not yet taken the floor. I had also asked a question about protecting special trees as a monument. That's an accepted chamber motion, too. Then why isn't that being carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u170	If Mrs Bromet agrees, I would like to return to that second question in the second term. Mrs Bromet says it's just paper that we're doing. That's what I'm really fighting. In my opinion, I have just given very concrete examples of peat meadow, which includes, among other things, increased levels, including underwater drainage. This concerns all kinds of places, all of which differ from one another. It may seem like one peat meadow area, but Friesland is really different from Noord-Holland or the area around Gouda. They require their own approach and we are working everywhere to deal with these issues in practice. With regard to the management of the roadside, we are also increasing knowledge and skills. Are they all managed ecologically well next year? No. The practice is sometimes uncomfortable. That's part of our job, too. Are we going to accept that? No. Then we'll keep going until it's what we want. I like that Mrs Bromet is impatient, but I would not say that it is only paper that we produce. Something really happens in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u171	Then about the peat meadows, for example. I know those pilots are happening. I even went out with the minister three years ago in a boat looking for pilots like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u172	Yes. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u173	We also saw what that looked like in practice. But in the Climate Agreement we also agreed that a lot of CO will be saved by flooding those peat meadows. That is an agreement that will apply until 2030. It's almost 2022 now. Are we on schedule or are we still in the same phase as three years ago from all kinds of pilots to figure out how to do it best?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u174	Sometimes you just need pilots to know what's best for you. We're not doing a pilot for nothing. If we already knew what the answer to all these questions, which are quite complex and also differ by area, we would not need those pilots. The reality is therefore a bit more uncomfortable. For example, we want to take the next step. We want to use a very large part of the resources available in the second pillar for those peat meadow areas. We know that costs a lot of money. We also know that if you want to go through that transition, you need that money. Did I have that two years ago? No, I didn't. I was in an existing system of part of the Climate Agreement money, but at that time I was working to ensure that, for example, we will have resources in that second pillar. So it's always steps you have to take to make sure you finally get to what you agreed to. I still stand for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u175	Then we'll go to the fishing, the dessert.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u176	Sure. Several members, Mr Van Campen, Mr Bisschop and Mrs Van der Plas, have called for attention to be paid to the fisheries sector. With the arrival of wind farms and protected areas and as a result of the Brexit, the challenges for fisheries are growing. I also hear more and more stories from fishermen who leave their heads hanging and say: am I going to advise my son or daughter to go fishing? I understand the frustration and the feeling of powerlessness, because is there a future? I'm touched by that, too. Mr Van Campen and Mr Bishop asked: what is the perspective for the sector? I understand that question in that light. I believe there's a future for the sector, otherwise I wouldn't be standing here. Then I should have said, "It's done, it's done." But I honestly don't believe that. I do believe that, here too, it will go another way. Precisely for that reason, at the Brexit Adjustment Reserve, I will come to those resources in a moment, because there are some questions asked about this and also about the North Sea Agreement, so that you can make sure that the innovations that you need to do are possible to be ready for the challenges of the future. But there is also a part for those who do not want to go any further. We also give them the opportunity to quit. So there are two tracks: that of the keepers, who can prepare for the future, and that of giving opportunities to those who want to stop. Then you end up with a smaller, but also more sustainable fleet. If we all work towards this, in conjunction with fisheries, I believe that there is certainly a perspective for the sector. At the moment, we are working on a scheme to give fishermen the opportunity to stop. We are also working together with the sector on the innovation agenda in the context of the cutter vision. So there are concrete resources available for this. Mrs van der Plas specifically asked about wind at sea and its effects on fishing. The cabinet has a huge task to achieve the climate objectives. I'm not denying that. That is why there are also plans for the further realisation of wind farms in the North Sea. Those parks are coming; I'm not gonna bake sweet sandwiches here. Those parks are needed in the light of climate change. When deciding on this matter, we do make an integral balance of interests between the different uses of the North Sea, including those of fisheries. Good fishing grounds are spared as much as possible. That is why we are taking care of the southern North Sea as much as possible: there are good fishing grounds in that area. And that is also the reason why the areas of Holland's Coastal Northwest and Holland's Coastal Southwest have lost weight in the complementary North Sea design programme. So we're looking at this specifically. In addition, we have the agreement in the North Sea agreement that the wind farms encourage multiple use of space. That would also be an opportunity for fishing. Mr Van Campen specifically asked about shrimp fishing and about the expiry of the nature permit by the end of 2022. For a new permit, the sector has to be assessed in accordance with the requirements, including nitrogen emissions. This is not only the case with fisheries; all other people who wish to apply for a licence must comply with these requirements. I am now talking to the sector about how they can meet these requirements. I would like to draw the sector's attention, for example, to the possibilities offered by the new European Fisheries Fund, the EMFAF. There are means of sustainability there. They can be used, for example, to reduce emissions and thereby deposition, which hopefully makes it easier to issue this permit. I want to help the sector, but they will also have to take the initiative to see what options there are. This does not make fishing much different from other sectors, because this also applies to other sectors. Mr. Chairman. These were the last questions about fishing. I have another question about the water damage in Limburg. Mr Boswijk has asked a question about this. He asked if there could be more clarity for the Limburg entrepreneurs who have suffered turnover damage and for the agricultural entrepreneurs in the floodplains along the Meuse. We all remember the terrible images of what happened last summer in Limburg. We also remember that some of the farmers were affected, either directly or via the higher water from the floodplains. The turnover damage of non-farmers and the crop-plant damage of agricultural entrepreneurs in the floodplains of the Meuse are excluded from the Disaster Compensation Act. That just doesn't fall under the law, and that's not part of this. However, we are looking at the possibilities for a concession in relation to the floodplains along the Meuse. I have also had discussions with JenV's colleague, and I can promise that we will soon come up with an arrangement to ensure that these farmers are compensated for the damage they have suffered as a result of the floods that unfortunately took place this summer. I can give that to Mr Boswijk. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u177	Very briefly, Mr. Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u178	Thank you, Minister, for this commitment. Now the next question is when could that be? Could it be in a letter before Christmas, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u179	I'm gonna do that as soon as I can. I just need to see how we're gonna do that for a minute, but I want to give that clarity as soon as possible. That is my promise. Don't pin me completely on a day or a week, but I'll make sure it's sooner than later. Especially for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u180	Especially for Christmas. Mr Thijssen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u181	I have another question about the Wadden. This Chamber has requested independent legal investigation that enables the Minister, or even states that the Minister must stop the Wadden Sea extraction under the Nature Protection Act. I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u182	I believe that I have given a written answer to Mr Thijssen's question on this point. There has been a period in which all kinds of views could be expressed on the authorisation of gas extraction at Ternaard, because that is what we are talking about very specifically. Those views are now being assessed by the licence holder, who is with us, in order to assess whether they have an impact on a possible final licence. So we're in that process. Several views have been put forward, and we must carefully assess them. This is not just about the report requested by the Chamber, but there are also many views put forward by the Wadden Association and other parties. The process at the permit is so that you judge those views neatly and then come up with a reaction. I want to go through that process now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u183	Fine. So much for the first term. Oh, I'm being corrected by Mrs. Bromet right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u184	I didn't remember which block we stayed with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u185	On the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u186	Then I get to ask one more question, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u187	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u188	Two things. I told you about an idea of how, at the moment you own the land, you could deal with that land throughout the transition of agriculture and solving the nitrogen problem. I would like another response from the Minister. It's about the first right of purchase. It is an existing law that municipalities, provinces and also the Empire can use to become landowners and thus reform agriculture. The second question is whether there will be any response to our 12 billion amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u189	Do I have to do the amendments first, or is that for the second time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u190	That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u191	'Cause I haven't looked at them all yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u192	Then we'll do it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u193	Then there's the question about the ground. Mrs Bromet proposed that, under the Preferable Law Act, municipalities should be the first to offer land to the government. Now it is true that land is a very important factor in the transition we advocate in agriculture. There are already several means, including, for example, a land bank. It looks at where land is needed and where land is offered in order to bring these two together. Currently, a number of provinces have those land banks. However, it is our intention to see how we can have such a mechanism nationally to make that transition possible with that land. Applying the Wvg is possible, but also has a lot of feet in the earth. You're actually gonna force parties to offer their land first, in this case, to the government. That's quite a violation of property law. That's not something that can just happen. You must have a very good reason to do that. Above all, I want to see how we can make things possible with the ground bank, because I think that we have not all made use of the opportunities that exist there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u194	In short, Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u195	It is not the solution to a GroenLinks plan, but it is the solution to the nitrogen problem. That's the biggest problem Rutte's had in his entire career. So that's the underlying idea. I know you can't just impose preferential rights on municipalities, but we have a really big problem. I'm not saying you have to do it everywhere. However, I would like to ask the Minister to consider whether this is not an instrument to speed things up, because otherwise it will take decades. We know how long the landing took.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u196	Yeah, but I'm telling you, there are other means. Again, you must have good ground to use the Wvg. It is an existing instrument, so it is not that it is never used. But to use that in a large-scale way, as I hear from Mrs Bromet's words, in that way for that transition? I just want to see if we have other ways in which we can do it with the same effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u197	Mr. De Groot. Short, short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u198	I asked a question yesterday about a proposal from the European Commission on deforestation. The Minister replied in the written contribution that she would come forward with a reply to the BNC sheet in January, as it is called, the Review New Commission proposals. But the idea was right now to give all some ideas from the Chamber for that chip. Those were two ideas, namely: extend it, especially to savanna, wetlands or other natural areas where deforestation takes place. This should certainly be done when deforestation for soya production, including for the Netherlands, occurs. That's horrible, of course. The second idea is to extend it also to products in which palm oil or soya are used, whether or not by animal feed, otherwise we will close the borders in Europe and enter it. So I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u199	I understand Mr De Groot's question. He thinks, "Do it right at once." That's the brief summary of his words. I can't completely oversee it. It is also partly with the colleague of BuHa-OS. So I'm also looking at how we find the right balance there. The BNC sheet is with me, but this is having a broader discussion about deforestation, imports and all that sort of thing. That's back with the colleague for BuHa-OS. Let me come back to that in the second term, but I hear Mr De Groot's ideas well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u200	I would like to continue with the idea that GroenLinks has put forward to solve the cane dust crisis, or at least a piece of it. Six farmers stop a day. In my opinion, it is extremely necessary as a start to a solution that the government buys land and then thinks about how it can best be set up in a nature-inclusive way, so that at least the nitrogen problem becomes less serious. I understand there's got to be big reasons for putting that law in place, but there are, aren't there? We have a climate problem. We're having a nitrogen crisis. This is the moment. If this isn't reason enough, then when? So why can't the minister just say, "What a fantastic idea of Mrs Bromet. I'm not gonna make any more paper out of it. I'm gonna do it tomorrow."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u201	Let me be clear. Now it seems as if Mr Thijssen says that we as a Empire do not want to buy that land. I think I have just tried to argue that this is simply one of the means, but that it is not the only means. It may also be that farmers say to themselves, for example, that if I buy land, I can extend it. You don't have anything to do with it as a Empire. The use of the Wvg is a serious infringement of property rights. As I have just argued, you must have very good reasons for doing so. I don't want to say there aren't any. Mr Thijssen denies that there are other means of achieving the same objective. I really think there are possibilities in that. I think it is a rather disproportionate measure to take the toughest measure right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u202	But we've been dealing with this crisis for two and a half years. Two and a half years! I started this debate with a compliment, because there is an overall plan. I believe that this is an essential, crucial and very easy part of that overall plan. I understand that things may go well between farmers, but it can also go wrong between farmers. So I would say: take action as a government, buy that land and then see if you sell it or return it to another farmer, who can then extend it. That is all well and good, but make sure that you solve the nitrogen crisis with it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u203	There are really two things that are mixed up in Mr Thijssen's speech. He says, "Make sure you buy that land." I can just buy up that land, or at least the government can. I don't necessarily need the Wvg for that. I can do that in a normal transaction with a farmer, where we can come to normal agreements. It may also be that that farmer can sell the land to a colleague in another way. If you bet the Wvg, the government will be the first one you have to offer. Again, and I repeat myself: you must have good grounds for that. If we can do it in other ways, we're gonna try it in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u204	Very briefly, Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u205	I hear the Minister say that this is the hardest instrument, but I think expropriation is the most serious one. I have just presented this plan because it corresponds to a natural moment of alienation. It is not a business that is in the thriving of its existence and in which the government intervenes. It's about a farmer who stops. That is a problem in the Netherlands, because a lot of farmers have no successor. Then you say as a government: okay, you quit; we'll see if we can do anything with that to solve the problems here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u206	I don't necessarily need the Wvg for that. I can do that without the Wvg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u207	So much for the first term. I'm gonna see if there's a need for a second term. I call Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start reading the motions quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of guaranteeing the rights of animals as willless persons in the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u209	I thank the Minister for the commitment, but I really need more help from the Chamber and from the government, because we are also dealing with target animals and so on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to enable scientific research into the state of well-being such as the animal experiencing itself, using, for example, heart rate value measurement (HRV) and measurement of the amount of stress hormone cortisol and neurotransmitter dopamine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to eliminate non-medically-friendly training methods, means and interventions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-26]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u210	Easy-peasy. It's gonna be ticking off for the Secretary of State. The next motion was co-signed by my friend in Limburg and our Parliament biologist, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u211	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u212	Then the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide a DNA database to support the animal police, the National Inspection Service for Animal Protection (LID) and the Dutch Food and Service Authority (NVWA) in the handling of bite incidents, detection of animal executioners, illegal traders and bread breeders of animals carrying hereditary, physical and/or mental abnormalities (to be determined by DNA),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u213	I was very pleased to have a debate with my colleagues, with the Minister and also with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u214	One more minute for Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u215	Mr. Chairman. I thought it was a tragically bad debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to formulate new nature policy without fixation on nitrogen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government no longer to subordinate the interests of Dutch farmers and fishermen to those of nature and environmental organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to apologize to the Dutch farmers for threatening expropriation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-32]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-33]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u217	Thank you. I hope you have a nice evening after all. And come back again. Mr Van Campen of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u218	No, Mr. Chairman, it's not that bad what you just said to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u219	Well, this is the last budget and your group has 68 minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u220	Have my colleagues been so sparing with time? I will congratulate them on that at the next group meeting. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to colleagues for the debate we have had. I have experienced that we have had the debate a little bit with the hand brake on it. I also recognise the frustrations that many colleagues have about this. I am very much looking forward to continuing the debate with colleagues over the next few years on the future of the agricultural sector, for our farmers, in harmony with nature and the environment, so that a long-term perspective can be created with a good income model for farmers and so that farmers can rest again. I've had many conversations in the first eight months that I was a Member of Parliament. I have thought about this in my contribution. I am very grateful to all the people I was allowed to visit for sharing their stories and ideas, but also for sharing their concerns. I think many of my colleagues here recognize this when they have conversations. You'll recognize that everyone is watching what's about to happen with breath. The Minister stated in her reply how she looked at this. I have tried to do that in my contribution. I hope that we can have good debates on this in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions. The first motion concerns the experimental areas in the various regions with regard to circular agriculture. That is where you really see examples of farmers, with agricultural holdings, thinking about closing circles and creating short chains between production on the farmyard and the consumer. There, too, we are simply thinking about the future of agriculture. I believe that we should maintain and continue to exploit this built-up infrastructure, that accumulated knowledge and that accumulated enthusiasm in the years to come. We are going to need that very much. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that cooperation within, between and with the five experimental areas mentioned in the LNV vision Realisation Plan has generated a lot of positive energy, both in the regions themselves and nationally;]] [[Considering that in recent years this has led to the introduction of educational initiatives in the experimental areas which have tested new forms of circular agriculture;]] [[considers that the continuity and development of experimental regions should not be jeopardised and it is therefore desirable to continue or further develop the experimental areas approach in the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the possibilities for continuing the experiments on circular agriculture in the experimental regions for the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government also to clarify framework conditions such as experimental space, content, methodology and monitoring for the experimental regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Boswijk, Tjeerd de Groot, Grinwis and Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u221	Mr. Chairman. The second motion is about manure, or "fat fraction," as we call it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current manure policy is based on manure as a residual or even waste product;]] [[noting that crops absorb nitrogen from soil and air, and that plants capture carbon;]] [[Considers that a good manure policy should not be based on manure as a waste product, but as a source of good equilibrium fertilization with soil improvers as a key to soil health;]] [[Considers that organic matter and nutrients are vital for good soil health and can largely replace this fertilizer;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to develop a new manure policy based on good soil health rather than manure as a waste product;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of its results before the summer of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Boswijk, Tjeerd de Groot and Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u222	Finally, the final motion. It is about legal certainty for farmers when they have made large investments in the barn systems, because they did and do so in good faith. Once such an innovation is on the Rav list, Mr Van der Plas, in her debate with the Minister, has already indicated how difficult such an innovation is to get on the list at all. The various courts in the country I have cited the court of Central Netherlands have really made other judgments about this. That is why I would like to table the next motion on this subject. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Central Netherlands court has previously destroyed decisions taken by the province of Utrecht on 17 agricultural holdings and a slaughterhouse in the province and that this matter is not in itself but also in other provinces and in other courts;]] [[having regard to the Court's ruling that the use of the Rav emission factors for low-emission stables is not sufficiently certain that their use can be regarded as a situation of internal netting;]] [[considers that not the farmer but the government is responsible for the legal certainty of the possibility of internal netting;]] [[calls on the Government to provide maximum support to the provinces in the appeal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen and Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u223	Mr. Chairman. On my side, three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Forest Strategy includes a policy ambition of at least 1,000 hectares of food forest;]] [[Whereas food forestry is a nature-inclusive form of circular farming supporting local biodiversity and showing a promising income model for farmers;]] [[calls on the Government to mobilise the necessary financial resources to further increase the number of hectares of food forests by competent implementing organisations with practical experience,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Boswijk, Mr Tjeerd de Groot, Mr Grinwis, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Vestering, Mr Thijssen and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u224	Is that everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u225	No, not quite, but almost. Of course, the rest can still be connected. As I said in the first term, we are all talking about ensuring that there are good green alternatives. This is something that at least a group of farmers is enthusiastic about. It's hard for the first seven years. That can be supported. That sounds great to us. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that dozens of reptile fairs are organised annually;]] [[noting that there is hardly any control at the exchanges by the NVWA or any other body;]] [[Whereas reptile fairs may form hotbeds of animal infectious diseases, animal suffering and illicit trade;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure strict control and enforcement at reptile fairs, and to identify trade, animal welfare and possible health risks, and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u226	Mr. Chairman. You know that these two parties would very much like to see a ban as soon as possible. As long as the Minister says that it is still very difficult, we think that everything must be done to get that animal suffering out of the world. We can't do that without a ban. So keep it as far as possible. I see that Mr Wassenberg is very enthusiastic. I'm gonna move on to my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that livestock shipments to non-EU countries were prohibited in May 2020;]] [[noting that these shipments have recently been authorised;]] [[Whereas animal suffering must be avoided as far as possible and these distant transports do not contribute to this;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the transport of cattle to non-EU countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Vestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u228	Thank you. Then Mr Tjeerd de Groot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u229	How much time do I have, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u230	Not much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u231	I shall return to yesterday's debate, where I made a personal statement. This is just for the Acts. In a small debate with Mrs Van der Plas she put a statement in my mouth from an article from 2011. Yeah, it goes back a little bit, but I think it's important to correct that. Screenshots are being used on Twitter, as if I'd argued for an increase in production. Then the bottom part is taken off. Mrs van der Plas immediately underlined her by saying: I still have the screenshots. I think it would be a good thing for the Acts to correct this. I gave Mrs van der Plas the opportunity to do so. She didn't use it. I'll do the last piece. It's a very small piece from the piece. "The NZO considers production growth to be justified in response to the expected growing demand. A further sustainability of the production chain is a must to safeguard the future of food production and the economic position of the dairy chain, says Tjeerd de Groot." That's me. I just wanted to correct that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u232	Mrs. Van der Plas, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u233	It is rather premature to conclude that Mrs van der Plas is not going to come back to it, because Mrs van der Plas has not yet had any speaking time at all. I've got a whole story lined up, Mr. De Groot, so you can listen to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u234	Okay, we're gonna listen to that later. We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u235	I look forward to it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u236	Mr. De Groot, you're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u237	I stopped by your house and you said...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u238	No, no, you're just gonna keep going. No, no, no, you're not gonna talk to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u239	Yes, sorry, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u240	And a word through the chairman, both of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u241	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I do that all the time. No, Mr. De Groot shouldn't say anything weird or false. Mr. De Groot came to me and asked if I'd seen the e-mail. Then I said: yes, I saw the e-mail and I'm going to look at it like this, but I can't promise anything yet. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u242	Okay, fine. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u243	I can't believe we got it straightened out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u244	Fine. It's nice of you to put things right. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and, of course, the staff behind it and my own staff in the back of the Chamber. It is indeed unsatisfactory to talk in this Chamber at this time about what is needed for agriculture and for nature in the Netherlands, and at the same time it is not secret to try with a number of other parties whether we can actually get out in order to achieve these goals in a future cabinet period, even in such a way that we get broad support for this in the Chamber. We have a great deal to do with that, because a great deal has to be done. Nevertheless, there are a number of things which are important and which are worth fixing in the forthcoming budget, because the nitrogen approach that has now been decided is the first euro needed. I really want to call on the parties to approve that budget, because it was not in the previous budget. Just let the Minister of LNV get to work to improve nature. I really appeal to the parties to take this to heart. A number of specific points. The export collection sites. It was ultimately about the pilot with smart cameras. When can we expect these results? Mr. Chairman. Then there was a long discussion about satsumas. I will not go all the way up to it, but the answer is somewhat unsatisfactory, because the European Commission says with regard to stacked use that the Member States have enough powers under the regulation in question to restrict use. This is actually kind of an analogy. The Minister may also restrict the use of certain uses of arthropods, such as pre-harvesting applications. So I just don't understand what it's all about. I'll keep coming back to this, I'll just announce it. And can the Minister explain in the second term what the yellowing of healthy grasslands, with some weeds here and there of course, a little culture where the cows get the grass, has to do with plant protection? That's because it's a herbicide. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... It's against weeds, and grass is just grass and it's not weeds. That's just an agricultural application. I really don't understand. Then there's the monitoring. Thank you to the Minister for replying in writing to the questions. In fact, the Minister says: with the NEM and the database I look at the national state of conservation of nature. But the Minister said in her introduction: we should actually look at the nature of each area; what is needed there? My question was yesterday in the first term: shouldn't you change the monitoring accordingly, so how is nature? If you are going to look more closely at more than just nitrogen, you also have to look at the nature conservation and the improvement of nature. Especially if we are going to spend a lot of money on this, it is necessary to monitor per nature reserve. I'd like a more detailed response. Then it's basic quality. Thanks for the answer. When is the Minister going to roll that out with her colleagues, including in other parts of society, so living, our gardens, the cities, we've received the note about this nature-inclusive society? Mr President, three motions for resolutions. The first motion concerns the derogation. There was a nice debate with colleague Van Campen of the VVD and the SGP. It seems good to D66 to talk about this in an open way, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in recent years there has been frequent uncertainty about whether or not to obtain a derogation from the Nitrates Directive and that it is now uncertain whether or not the Netherlands will be granted a derogation from next year;]] [[Whereas there is a strong need for a long-term perspective and security for Dutch agriculture, particularly for farmers;]] [[Whereas the development of the NSP looks at an area-based approach;]] [[Whereas this approach could be based on a hectare-based nitrogen standard;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct independent investigations into the pros and cons of derogation in the light of environmental impacts, including water quality, soil quality, climate, ammonia and biodiversity, and the impact on the animal manure market, the earning capacity of the sector, manure fraud and investment security for farmers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u245	Then there's a motion on national parks. Four years ago, as a Chamber, we gave an impetus to this and that has led to a great deal of positive energy, even the creation of a new national park, the New Land National Park. We'd like to continue with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Parks Programme runs until the end of December 2022;]] [[Considering that an evaluation of the programme, including the standard, governance and grants of LNV, is currently being carried out with the involvement of the parks and partners of the programme, and exploring recommendations for the follow-up of the programme;]] [[Calls on the Government, on the basis of the conclusions of the evaluation, to continue its efforts to support national parks beyond 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tjeerd de Groot, Mr Boswijk, Mr Grinwis and Mr Valstar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u246	The final motion, chairman, concerns crown domains. It's a fine motion, perhaps. It's a speech-out, so that might reassure the minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas King Willem-Alexander has applied for a grant of EUR 4.2 million for the maintenance of Kroondomain Het Loo;]] [[Whereas part of the crown domain is closed to hunting for three months;]] [[Whereas corona has helped many people to enjoy nature, which has made it very crowded in certain natural areas;]] [[declares that it would be a generous gesture from the king if he opened the crown domains all year round,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tjeerd de Groot and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u248	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Thijssen from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My first motion is about wadden gas extraction. As a chamber, we have asked for independent legal advice. That is crystal clear: there are consequences of wadden gas extraction on the Wadden Sea. It is a Natura 2000 site. If there is uncertainty as to whether damage will occur, the authorisation should not be granted. I think we should ask the government not to grant it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the International Congress for Nature Conservation calls for the withdrawal of new gas extraction in the Wadden Sea due to the risks to the nature of this unique UNESCO World Heritage;]] [[Considering that, according to the International Energy Agency, there should be no new investment in the development of new oil and gas fields if we want to remain below 1.5 degrees of warming;]] [[noting that, according to independent legal advice commissioned by this Chamber, there has been insufficient convincing evidence that there is no reasonable scientific doubt as to the adverse effects of gas extraction at Ternaard on the natural characteristics and objectives of the Wadden Sea, and that the Natura 2000 regime does not allow authorisation under the Nature Protection Act;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant a permit under the Nature Protection Act for gas extraction in the Wadden Sea near Ternaard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thijssen and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u250	And then a very nice motion, a gift to the Chamber and to the Minister. This motion is about the Forest Strategy. We talked about this in detail six months ago. At that time there was quite a bit of unrest within the nature and environmental movement. There were also newspaper articles about the balding in our forests. He had to stop and wasn't good. At that time I tabled a motion, but other nature organisations were not happy with it, because they still need some space to do nature conservation. I then held the motion and put these parties together. That's where this motion came from. So I think that is very nice and we can all sign this motion, because it allows the land-management organisations to do so and the other organisations are also satisfied that it does not lead to unnecessary balding. So, listen carefully. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Forest Strategy boosts biodiversity, carbon capture, natural experience and the sustainable production of quality wood;]] [[Whereas this requires small-scale climate-adaptive forest management, focusing on soil quality, effects of nitrogen and drought, (re-) revitalisation and carbon capture;]] [[Whereas it is up to the land managers to achieve flexibility in the implementation of small-scale forest management, taking into account history, ownership relationships and specific terrain conditions, but the progress of such management requires a monitoring system which is still lacking;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, with appropriate clearing policy, and to minimise plain cover, to monitor this clearing policy as from the eighth national forest inventory and to improve the existing system of clearing reports in such a way as to give a good picture of the size and scale of the plain cover in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u251	This is a brilliant motion. It gives us a lot of rest and the nature and environmental movement, so I hope that that judgment can be given to Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u252	Thank you for being so modest. Thank you. Then Mr Boswijk of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my first contribution, I told you something about my trip to America last weekend. I ended up leaving Williamstown. Since this is now the second term, I thought: I am now going to talk about the second half of the journey. The second half was my visit to Sagamore Hill. Sagamore Hill is the home of Theodore Roosevelt. He was the President of the United States from 1901 to 1908. When I walked into that house, the floor was littered with animal skins. That's not too crazy either, because Theodore Roosevelt was really a fervent hunter. He went on one expedition to Africa. Then he shot at least 300 animals there, including 177 antelopes, 6 elephants, 7 giraffes, 6 monkeys, 3 anacondas, 1 crocodile and................................................................................................................................................................................ I forgot the last one. We live in a bit of a Twittercracy these days, so if you have any brief information, you can have a big judgment on that. And then you can think on the basis of this information, what kind of weirdo was that? But if you read a little further, he did this to gain knowledge for science, commissioned by several museums in America. Theodore Roosevelt was also the president who identified 51 bird areas and 150 forests in America as protected natural areas, which ultimately makes 930,000 square kilometres national park to this day. He regulated the hunt, so there was no more over-hunting. And he also forbade different animals from being hunted at all. He was actually the first president, and perhaps also the first world leader, who saw that nature had to be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u254	And we owe him the teddy bear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u255	That's right. Yes, he did because he saw a very small bear tied to a tree, a child of a large bear. He wanted to shoot another bear and that was the offer; they had a little bear tied to a tree. He refused to shoot that defenseless animal because he thought an animal should be able to defend itself if you're going to hunt. He thought little animals shouldn't be hunted anyway. That's why they finally called the cuddle bear a teddy bear. But why this example, Mr President? Because the biggest threat in the sector and actually throughout politics at the moment is that we want to make everything simple and because making it simple often works very polarizing. I've shared quite innocently on Twitter over the past few weeks what I occasionally eat. That was a steak once and last week, on Friday morning at 8:00 a.m. a delicious Big Mac. I was then blamed for being an animal hater and for the meat lobby and so on, and so on, and for not caring about animal welfare. And that's just not true. To prove the contrary, I will be submitting two motions by the Animal Party today on animal welfare, because I am not the worst and I think animal welfare is very important. In fact, I think that if we don't push each other into boxes but work together more, we can bring the goals much closer. I must say quite frankly that I am far more optimistic than I was eight months ago, despite the fact that we have been waiting so long for the formation. I see a very nice cooperation between different parties here. I also see a lot of cooperation outside this Chamber, for example in the Seventh Action Programme, in which several parties in the sector have worked together and which the Ministry has also very well anticipated. I would like to make a few points of substance. First of all, thank you for the Minister's commitment on Limburg and thank you for the answer on the IBAs. I also have a question about agricycling. It is good that the Minister is working on several pilots and that she will return to this in spring 2022. I can see that the answers are very focused on composting waste. It must be about the much broader question of how it can be a earning model. In one of the pilots in Friesland that is the case. It would be very nice if we could take that with us and see how the farmer can play a role in the treatment of human waste as well. Thank you for the answers on company succession. We will put that motion to the vote, together with my colleague Grinwis. Finally, I have a final motion on the Seventh Action Programme. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Sixth Programme of Action of the Nitrates Directive (6th APN) agreed to introduce a new combined phosphate indicator for the determination of the phosphate status of the soil;]] [[Whereas the 6th APN states that imports of the combined phosphate indicator should be neutral with regard to the use area for phosphate;]] [[noting that for clay-based arable land imports of the combined phosphate indicator on some arable farms lead to a 20% reduction in phosphate utilisation space;]] [[Whereas this reduces the supply potential for organically dusty products on arable farms;]] [[Whereas soil improvers are crucial for maintaining soil fertility, increasing water storage capacity, carbon sequestration and enhancing the resilience of soil and crop;]] [[Considering that the Minister of LNV has therefore adopted a transitional arrangement for the year 2021 which could also use the old phosphate indicator;]] [[noting that this arrangement was not extended in the Seventh Action Programme;]] [[calls on the Government to add to the Seventh Action Programme a 50% phosphate exemption for organic dusty products in order to compensate for the loss of phosphate utilisation space resulting from imports of the combined phosphate indicator,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boswijk, Mr Grinwis and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u256	Mr. Chairman. I had a motion on goats, but it serves the Party for the Animals with me. I have a motion that I think the right-wing parties also very much like. It is about assessing the effectiveness of nature management. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the policy review carried out by LNV shows that the current evaluation system does not enable us to assess nature policy on effectiveness and that the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement Act does not solve this problem;]] [[calls on the Government to add the effects of nature restoration measures as a measurement target to the Ecological Monitoring Network;]] [[calls on the Government, for example, to ask Radboud University to develop a comprehensive approach in the short term, to seek resources for this and to inform the Court of Justice about this for the spring paper of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u257	The second motion concerns fundamental policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas agriculture and nature are plagued by various problems, from too much nitrogen and nitrate, nature and biodiversity, inadequate water quality and climate to the earning capacity of farmers and the lack of successors;]] [[Whereas ownership of the (agricultural) land helps us to bring the solutions closer;]] [[Whereas a land policy based on a first right of public purchase, the vicious circle of scaling up, debt, overproduction and low prices can be broken;]] [[calls on the Government to draw the attention of provinces to the possibilities offered by the Favourite Law for municipalities to buy out farmers without successor and to use the land released by it for nature, landscape conservation, emission reduction and intensification of agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the good, thorough and always patient answer of all our questions. The compliments for the officials who prepared it all, and of course for your happy presidency. Mr. Chairman. I shall go on and on about Mr Boswijk's speech, namely that building a good future is about connecting scientists worldwide, but also linking policy officer, farmer and conservationist and linking parties in the agricultural chain, from bank to farmer to consumer. That's the only way we're gonna get anywhere. With that in mind, I have prepared a few motions. There's three of them. I'm gonna start filing that, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is an incessant task not only to develop legally sustainable policies, but also for farmers and nature managers, and that connection between policy-maker and practice is therefore important;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality is currently organising so-called "practical days' on agricultural holdings for officials;]] [[Whereas a few weeks' participation in a farm or nature management organisation can contribute to policies that are better rooted in the practice of food production and nature management;]] [[calls on the Government, in particular, to increase the practical experience of policy officials in sectors related to their policy work by organising practical weeks, and to make the practical knowledge and experience gained fruitful in policy-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u259	Isn't this an understatement of what civil servants are doing for us, for our country? Do we have to say from the Chamber what officials should and should not do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u260	No, this is definitely not an understatement. This is from appreciation and at the same time from the embrace of the initiative already taken at the LNV Ministry, namely to keep a day of practice. A practice day is very short, so a few weeks of practical experience can't hurt at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u261	Your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u262	Mr President, thank you. Yes, Mr Bromet will have to deal with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that more and more market players, such as ASR, Rabobank and Vitens, reward farmers through lease contracts for sustainable management and good soil care;]] [[noting that the State real estate company has 40,000 hectares of agricultural land, which is spent on leases and also on leases, but uses one-year leases on a large scale;]] [[Whereas this influential position in the agricultural chain entails a responsibility to enable farmers to produce food in a sustainable way;]] [[Whereas good soil care can only be achieved if farmers have long-term security on their leases so that long-term investments can be made;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the State real estate company no longer issues land in annual leases;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a scheme that grants farmers a rent discount on the land which they lease from the National Real Estate Company when they are working on sustainable business operations, while seeking the widest possible connection with existing certification programmes in the field of sustainability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grinwis, Mr Boswijk, Mr Tjeerd de Groot and Mr Van Campen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u263	Thank you also for the Minister's reply on this point. It seemed nice to us that the direction is right, if I understand the answer correctly, but a push in the back towards the entire cabinet and the government real estate company could not hurt us. Then my final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the annual survey carried out by ICES shows that eels in European waters are in poor condition and that this is caused, inter alia, by water grinds, hydroelectric power stations and other works of art;]] [[Whereas the recent evaluation of the Dutch eel recovery plan shows that eel mortality by Dutch waterworks is still substantial with outliers of up to 56% of migratory provisions in certain types of water grinding;]] [[Whereas research carried out by RAVON shows that 40% of Dutch waters are not accessible for eels due to barriers;]] [[calls on the Government to urge, at European level, the identification of the main bottlenecks of eel migration and to call for a plan to increase the permanence of eel migration;]] [[calls on the government also to identify the main bottlenecks for eel migration in Dutch waters and, in cooperation with the water managers, to make a proposal to make them more permeable for eels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u264	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u265	Thank you. A brief question from Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u266	Mr President, all my questions are brief. I would like to ask Mr Grinwis: does he know that ICES says that migration of eels is a problem, but the catching of eels is also a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u267	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u268	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Vestering from the Party for Animals Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u269	Thank you, Mr President. An historic moment, because I am now going to table various motions, including one with the CDA, which is about the welfare of animals in livestock farming. And if the Party for Animals and the CDA agree, then you know that the whole Chamber can just vote for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u270	I can feel the Christmas spirit coming down a little bit. I like that. This is the moment we need to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u271	Anything to help the animals, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Decision provides for keepers of animals to be able to meet their (drinking) water requirements;]] [[noting that the NVWA already advised two years ago to make permanent drinking water available to chickens and chickens for fattening in poultry farming, due to the risk of welfare and health problems, such as stress and thirst;]] [[calls on the Government to stop allowing animals to have permanent access to drinking water,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Vestering and Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u272	Mr. Chairman. My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for the production of dairy animals there is a repeated re-pregnancy and re-birth of young animals which are removed from them immediately or within a few hours of birth, so that the milk (which is intended for the young) can be sent to the dairy processor;]] [[noting that there are numerous fully-fledged plant alternatives to dairy products;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with concrete measures and objectives to accelerate the transition to a more plant-based diet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many calves are already being transported at an age of two weeks;]] [[Whereas calves at that age are still dependent on milk which is not available during transport;]] [[Whereas the immune system of calves up to four weeks of age has not yet been fully developed, making them susceptible to diseases such as pneumonia and diarrhoea;]] [[noting that Germany has already decided to increase the minimum age for the carriage of calves to four weeks;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the transport of calves under 28 days of age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-53]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Vestering, Mr Beckerman and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u273	Mr. Chairman. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nowhere in Europe there are as many chickens and ducks per hectare of agricultural land as in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that in the 2003 evaluation of avian influenza outbreaks, which gassed 30 million animals, infected humans and died a veterinarian, it was concluded that outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses are difficult, if not impossible, to control in areas where many poultry holdings are together;]] [[noting that the evaluation recommended, inter alia, a reduction in the density of poultry holdings in order to reduce the risk of spread between holdings;]] [[Considering that this year's expert group of zoonoses also advised the Cabinet to reduce the high density of poultry holdings, in order to reduce the risk of the emergence and spread of avian influenza outbreaks;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a moratorium on the construction or expansion of poultry holdings in areas where many poultry holdings are already established, such as the Gelderse Valley and certain areas in Limburg,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u274	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the zoonoses expert group advised the Cabinet earlier this year not to allow poultry holdings in wetlands, due to the risk of outbreaks of the avian influenza virus;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a moratorium on the construction or expansion of poultry holdings in wetlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that successive surveys have shown for more than 10 years that residents of goat farms are at a very high risk of lung stinging;]] [[noting that it is now left to provinces to set a goat stop or not;]] [[Considering that the number of goats in the Netherlands has almost doubled since the Q-fever epidemic and that this growth is also visible in provinces with a goat stop;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a national goat stop;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wild bees and bumblebees are affected by the placement of thousands of honeybees near Natura 2000 sites;]] [[predominantly that the majority of this commercial bee industry is located abroad;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the legal basis, or the creation of a legal basis, on which a buffer zone can be established for the placing of honey hives near Natura 2000 sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nature is in crisis due to acidification, dehydration and fragmentation;]] [[noting that the PBL and Wageningen indicate that there must be at least 150,000 hectares of nature in the Netherlands in order to achieve the nature objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan for the summer of 2022 to add at least 150,000 additional hectares of nature to the Netherlands Nature Network,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas RIVM notes that the current pesticide assessment criteria do not adequately assess the risk of neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and ALS;]] [[Whereas the Health Council and the Parkinson's Association specifically warn about the relationship between Parkinson's disease and exposure to arthropods, based on scientific studies;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw resources containing the active substance acetamide immediately from the market until it has been proven beyond doubt that they do not pose a risk to health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas RIVM notes that the current pesticide assessment criteria do not adequately assess the risk of neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and ALS;]] [[Whereas the Health Council and the Parkinson's Association specifically warn about the relationship between Parkinson's disease and exposure to arthropods, based on scientific studies;]] [[noting that the most recent risk assessment of arthropods has taken place on the basis of the current insufficient assessment criteria;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to a renewal of the European authorisation of arthropods until a full assessment of the neurological effects can be made and it can be concluded that it is safe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-56]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Vestering and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-57]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-58]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-59]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-60]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u275	Mr. Chairman. One final question. The Animal Party, together with the SP, has tabled a motion to immediately stop hunting hares and rabbits and to remove them from the list of species that are free to hunt. The Minister is not carrying out this motion. The Party for Animals can submit a legislative amendment, perhaps this time together with the CDA. But I'd like the Minister to just carry out this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u276	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg from the same group. With any luck, he'll have a few more motions on him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u277	Mr President, I will not disappoint you. I will also make a preliminary announcement. Yesterday we had a compliment for the Minister. I don't think that's too bad. Today I will also table a motion with an unexpected combination of cases. But I'll be right there. That's the teaser again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u278	Ooh! We're all set.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u279	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I also thank the officials, because I know that's a lot of work. That's hard work. It's all worked out. So thank you for that. Then I have some motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to share with the Chamber the notarial act in which the usufruct of Kroondomain Het Loo is recorded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development,]] [[noting that avian flu is present on an occasional basis, but on an annual basis;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a plan for a cost-covering contribution to shelter centres and animal allowances for costs incurred in connection with avian influenza,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 3.4 of the Decision prohibits the breeding of pet animals with harmful characteristics;]] [[noting that animals with these harmful characteristics, including extremely short muzzles, too small skulls or skeletal abnormalities may still be traded;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to prohibit trade in and imports of these farmed pet animals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-62]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-63]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Campen and Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u280	This is the motion that I put forward with the CDA and with the VVD, the colleagues Van Campen and Boswijk. I think this is the first time I have tabled a motion with these two parties. So I would like to draw special attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u281	Heartwarming. Heartwarming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u282	That motion will hopefully be widely supported. Thank you, both colleagues. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dolphinarium has failed to fulfil its commitments several times in the past;]] [[noting that the Minister has made further arrangements with the Dolphinarium;]] [[noting that the first deadline is 2024;]] [[calls on the government to withdraw the Dolphinarium zoo permit if the Dolphinarium violates these agreements and fails to meet the first deadline,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the director of the Dolphinarium has indicated that he intends to breed with dolphins in the long term;]] [[Whereas the Government considers it undesirable to bred with the dolphins of the Dolfinarium;]] [[Whereas the situation surrounding orka Morgan seems to be repeated by exporting dolphins, sea lions and walruses to the Hainan Ocean Paradise amusement park in China, where animals will have to do tricks for the public;]] [[Whereas there is no guarantee that these animals will be kept in the amusement park in a way that meets the animal welfare standards applied here and that there will be no control over the welfare of dolphins and other animals when transferred to China;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant new licences for the export of dolphins, sea lions and walruses to this Chinese amusement park if the export licence expires,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Food Authority concluded in 2005 that crustaceans, crabs, octopuses and squid exhibit complex behaviour and may experience pain;]] [[Whereas the amount of scientific evidence supporting this conclusion has grown enormously since then;]] [[noting that on this basis the British government has decided that lobsters, crabs, octopuses and squid are sentient creatures, which is seen as a first step in banning the live cooking of these animals;]] [[noting that Switzerland prohibits the live cooking of crabs and lobsters for the same reason;]] [[calls on the Government to take steps to require humane killing methods for these animals and to ban the live cooking of lobsters and crabs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-65]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-66]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u283	The very last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that biologists of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) advise to stop all eel fishing in order to prevent the extinction of this species;]] [[noting that catching young eels, in order to fatten a part and to expand another part does not help the decline of the species;]] [[calls on the government to stop eel fishing in the Netherlands, at least until the species is sufficiently restored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u285	Thank you. A brief question from Mr Graus, with the emphasis on short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u286	I would have liked to have a bilateral one with Mr Wassenberg, but that was not possible because of circumstances. Shouldn't we say "shellfish and shellfish plus animals with an external skeleton"? Isn't it much better to go a little wider? Why just crabs and lobsters? Why not all the shellfish plus the animals with an external skeleton?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u287	Octopuses are in any case not bred in the Netherlands. I kept it for a while on the animals that are currently being killed in restaurants. An octopus is an inverdebrate and indeed is considered a crustacean, although they have an internal shell. I have just focused on the animals that are bred or caught for commercial reasons and are cooked alive. So that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u288	Clear. Obviously. Thank you. Then Mrs Koekkoek from the Volt Group. Mr Wassenberg has to turn in his motions to the clerk, otherwise he will have done everything for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a little less motions, but I do have a little introduction. We have put a great deal of emphasis in our input on the certain uncertainties in the future, namely the European laws and objectives that bind and also need to be met. In particular, we have done this in order to show that sustainability ambitions and agricultural policy need not be mutually exclusive. Importantly, the sector can be included in the transition we want to make. Then we also have to stop doing the minimum, and then we have to work together on the goals we have set. Those are the climate law goals of European and Dutch climate policy, judicial rulings, and they are all as real limits as the limits of our ecological system. If we don't prepare now, we're going to have an even bigger crisis in a few years from now. And it is also going to create a much greater crisis of confidence between farmers, consumers, citizens and government. That is why this is the time to have high ambitions and also to actively follow the negotiations and steps of the European agricultural policy as a Chamber and to include everyone, the Chamber and all stakeholders. In doing so, we must also look closely at the good examples that exist and exchange them with others. Which brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all EU Member States are working on the implementation of the future agricultural policy, in particular the new instrument of eco-systems;]] [[Whereas the EU Member States in Brussels often discuss the design of CAP legislation;]] [[Whereas in these discussions there is not always sufficient scope to discuss more widely applied best practices in the different Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to take a leading role in establishing the exchange of best practices, more specifically those relating to eco-regulations, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Bromet, Mr Thijssen and Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u291	Very well, thank you. Then Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u292	We're gonna drop the introduction. We don't need Castro-like statements. Three brief motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[speaks out against forced expropriation of farmers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u293	The second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that farmers deserve a fair price for selling their land,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u294	And a third, which may also be well appreciated by both the Minister and the left, and by the President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas basic public services such as postal services, police stations, schools, medical services and elderly care institutions are increasingly moving from rural areas to urban areas;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate how to maintain rural living conditions through the guarantee of basic public services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u295	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u296	Very well, thank you. Then Mr Bishop, of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u297	It says here on the counter that I have one minute left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u298	Your group has two minutes left in this budgetary cycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u299	So that's misleading, but thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer, the thorough way in which that has been done and also for the support of the Minister, who has worked hard on it to take it off in writing. Mr. Chairman. I have one supplementary question, following the debate on the nitrogen dossier. We find that both the Minister and the colleagues, and everyone in fact, want to make great strides. I understand that, but there are still some challenges, such as model comparison and more and better measurements. I would ask the Minister if she is prepared to put in writing what is in process, what needs to be done and when we can expect something. An update, as it were. Then there's three more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that more than EUR 50 million is available for the green economic recovery scheme for agriculture;]] [[Whereas various innovative techniques for source-oriented sustainability of housing systems have been put on the market;]] [[calls on the Government to use the green-economic recovery scheme also for source-oriented sustainability of housing systems, provided that there is substantial and demonstrable emission reduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u300	The second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pilots are taking place with the real-time measurement of ammonia emissions for steering on company-specific emission ceilings and that a control body is being set up, as proposed by the Task Force Acceleration Innovation Process Stalsystems;]] [[Considers that target requirements for the reduction of ammonia emissions give farmers more scope to ensure, through management measures or technical measures, demonstrable emission reduction and that the use of target requirements in combination with real-time measurements should be pre-conditional for the Nitrogen Reduction Programme;]] [[calls on the Government to include the deployment at target operational level in the programme Nitrogen Reduction, in conjunction with real-time measurement of ammonia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u301	And then the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas narrowing of the package of plant protection products can ensure resistance development in crops and increased resource use;]] [[Whereas precision farming and other emission reduction measures reduce the risks of plant protection, while little account is taken of this in the authorisation policy;]] [[Considers that more practical research is needed and that, when assessing applications for authorisation and exemptions, greater account should be taken of the possibilities of precision agriculture, emission reduction and related requirements and the risks of resistance development;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure, in the short term, multi-annual co-financing of practical trials under the 2030 Future Vision Plant Protection Implementation Programme;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the authorisation authority Ctgb and sectorial organisations, to consider how more account can be taken of these aspects in admission policy and in the assessment of exemptions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u302	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u303	Nice pointy, that last motion. We're on 51 motions by now. Mr Bishop knows that the author of the fiftieth motion always has to treat, so we will be delighted to see that. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group. Perhaps she also has a single motion for a resolution before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u304	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Groot has asked me to correct something. This doesn't go away from my time, because I'm waiting for the gentlemen to finish. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Groot has asked me to correct something. I addressed him yesterday at his 2011 plea to produce more milk for the world market. He made that plea at the time in his role as director of the Dutch dairy organisation, the NZO. Mr De Groot said yesterday that I questioned his integrity because I did not mention that he had also said that further sustainability was a must. I replied, thank God we still have the screenshots. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Groot has today sent me the whole article I referred to and asked me to correct my words. No, I'm not gonna do that. This is what I'm talking about. In the article, Mr De Groot is in favour of increasing milk production, as global demand for dairy is increasing. In other words, more cows, more milk. In the article, Mr De Groot even regrets that the possibilities for accelerating milk production are not being exploited. Mr De Groot had apparently, and indeed would have liked to have, improved the scale he wanted at the time. He also says in the article that the production growth he advocated is justified. And yes, he also mentions that further sustainability is a must. But, Mr President, there has never been any cessation of sustainability. Nowhere in the article does Mr De Groot say that further sustainability should be required in order to save nature, the environment or the climate. Not a word. What Mr De Groot does say in the article is that further sustainability is a must for the future of food production and the economic position of the dairy chain. That's right. The dairy chain, in which the NZO, with Mr De Groot as proud foreman, was part at the time and in which the NZO simply had an interest. Finally. In fact, Mr De Groot states in the 2011 article that growth of livestock, and hence the growth of milk production, is justified. Mr De Groot's plea that livestock should be cut by half because it would only be sustainable, the plea that has caused so much unrest, protests, uncertainty and, above all, suffering to thousands of farmers' families, can thus go into the trash. Mr De Groot himself has rejected this plea. I would therefore like to thank Mr De Groot, also on behalf of the thousands of farmers in the Netherlands, for pointing out to me again today the whole content of the article from 2011. The farmer finally has clarity: the livestock does not need to be halved, because fortunately we still had the screenshots. Mr. Chairman. Then a few motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u305	One second. Mr De Groot would like to comment on this. I'll allow that, but we're not gonna bicker. We're working on the last speaker in the second term. We're not gonna argue about this for too long. Mr De Groot responds and you can respond very briefly. After that, we're really gonna get on with the party. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u306	I certainly won't. This further sustainability has not been achieved in the sector. That has become a great tragedy and that has resulted in phosphate rights. It has become a great tragedy, because the sector itself was unable to attach conditions to production growth. The assumption that you would remain within the limits of nature with 20% growth and 10% environmental gain has not been achieved. This sustainability has not been achieved. That was also not possible because the political intervention was too late, despite the request from the sector itself. That is precisely why I said at the time: I am going into politics. It is now necessary, from a political point of view, to ensure that you keep production within the limits. For this, it is necessary to reduce the number of pigs and chickens in the Netherlands to the order I have described, and also to reduce the number of cows. There has never been any halving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u307	Very well, thank you. There is no doubt that Mrs van der Plas would like to respond briefly. Your microphone's off, so no one's gonna hear you yet. I think it's okay if you respond, but just for a minute and a sec. Don't provoke things again, because then we'll keep going. So briefly, and then you'll just continue with your story. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u308	I don't have the guts to change with a president like that anymore. Very briefly. It's very simple. Mr De Groot asked me to correct something from an article from 2011. I have now made a statement on this, and I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u309	Perfect. You're moving on. No, no, no, Mr. De Groot. Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u310	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. That was because Mrs Van der Plas quoted selectively yesterday from scientific research and also from this piece. That's not an article, it's just a piece. So yes, I may have proposed to halve the livestock, but Mrs Van der Plas worked half-truths yesterday. I just wanted to mention that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u311	Okay, perfect. You're not coming out. The facts are clear. Mrs. Van der Plas is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u312	That's right, we're just gonna move on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that current policy is a resource policy;]] [[noting that targets will not be met in relation to the Nitrates Directive and the Water Framework Directive;]] [[Whereas generic policies are becoming less effective because conditions are not the same everywhere;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to implement a targeted policy on nitrogen and nitrate in its long-term visions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Planning Office for the Environment calls for the establishment of a scientific authority;]] [[noting that there is little scientific evidence on nature recovery measures;]] [[Whereas the lack of scientific evidence leads to legally weak licensing;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to set up as soon as possible a scientific authority to monitor the monitoring and measures aimed at the restoration of the natural environment and to inform the Chamber of progress by 1 March at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas scientists warn of the potentially disastrous effects on the ecosystem level in the North Sea by mega-wind parks in the North Sea and the IJsselmeer;]] [[calls on the Government in the European Agriculture and Fisheries Council to call for a scientific committee from the various North Sea Member States to assess the impact of large-scale wind roll-out at sea and to map the (expected) effects of the Member State in excess and to inform the Court before 1 May 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister gave a positive appreciation of the Space for Entrepreneurship and Innovation report of the Task Force Acceleration Innovation Process Stalsystems;]] [[Whereas this report is of great importance for a future-proof agriculture with target policy rather than resource policy;]] [[Whereas measurement systems on individual holdings are necessary;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to anchor sensor and data systems in the law in accordance with the advice of the Task Force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are millions of grants each year to TBOs such as State Forestry and Natural Monuments for nature management and restoration and that they do not have to account for the effectiveness of this money;]] [[whereas companies and citizens who receive subsidies have to account for this in detail;]] [[calls on the Government to request a detailed and figures-based report from the ground-based organisations each year demonstrating the effectiveness of the use of grants received,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a moratorium on goat farming for four years;]] [[whereas this does not allow business development, therefore no further sustainability;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine the impact of this moratorium on the innovation and further sustainability of the sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas structuralally one third of agricultural and horticultural holdings each year have a family income below the low income limit;]] [[noting that Wageningen Economic Research can investigate the existence of long-term poverty among agricultural families;]] [[calls on the government to identify more specifically which types of farms are below the low-income threshold and during which period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that targeted research on the relationship between pneumonia and goat farming has been carried out since 2014;]] [[noting that a correlation, but still no causal link, has been found;]] [[Whereas the surveys carried out in the context of livestock farming and health Surroundings only look at livestock farming;]] [[calls on the government to launch a follow-up study on the prevalence of pneumonia near goat farms, including external factors such as industry, traffic and emissions from abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-76]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-77]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-78]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-79]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-80]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-81]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-82]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u313	The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas structuralally one third of agricultural and horticultural holdings each year have a family income below the low income limit... No, sorry. This isn't a motion I'd like to table, it's a backup motion. I'm gonna hold that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u314	That's too bad, 'cause if we hadn't, we'd have completed the 60.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u315	Really? Sorry. But I still have 30 seconds left. I've been wearing a really nice trigger all night. That was made by an old aunt of a farmer's friend. She made that especially for me, but since the minister is here for the last time... We hope so. No, I didn't mean it like that. Well, yeah... No, that was a joke. I meant it might take another year before they're done forming. I've got this again. That's why I liked giving the Minister this little trigger, so she doesn't only think about the bad times of her period, because a lot has happened, but also about the good times. So this is for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u316	The messenger will take it from you, Mrs. Van der Plas. We start the recognition melody of Good Times, Bad Times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u317	Yes. It's homemade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u318	Homemade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u319	I didn't make it myself. I made it with the lady.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u320	Thank you. So much for the second term of office. So 59 motions have been tabled. The minister can just give them a ruling room, because then we can go home. But maybe she'd like to take a look at it. I'll suspend until a little after 11:00. Until 11:00, I hear from the audience. It's only 59 motions, so it's got to be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u321	We're gonna go through the motions for a very short time and then we're gonna go home. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u322	You have tabled only 59 of them, and also some amendments! I shall begin with the motions, followed by the amendments and some questions. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 25 of Mr Graus: dissuade. The amendment of the Constitution is quite a lot and we are not going to take that up. The second motion, the motion in part No. 26. The RDA has just come up with an opinion and it says "the positive state of well-being." I'll give you a response to that. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 27. We have already started the investigation and I would therefore ask Mr Graus to wait for this investigation. This motion is ahead of the results of the investigation and I regret to have to advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u323	Mr. Graus, short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u324	It'll take a little while, Mr. Chairman. Last year I also tabled this motion, and then the Minister asked me to arrest her. But then again, nothing happened in all this time. That's why I retabled the motion. I'll arrest her again, but I do hope something's gonna happen to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u325	But the investigation is ongoing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u326	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (35925-XIV, No. 27). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u327	The motion in part No. 28. There's a bill in the Chamber right now, and that's why I'm not recommending this motion. The motion in part No. 29 is about the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u328	Very briefly. I really want to get...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u329	This is about a lifetime ban on keeping animals. There's no bill for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u330	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u331	But we have had discussions before about the idea that life is not proportional, but increasing the penalty. That bill is now in the Chamber, and that is why I still advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 29 about the unspoiled killing I advise against. The motion in part No. 30. I said in the written answer: on the one hand, the professionalisation of the ambulance is really on the ambulances themselves, but on the other hand, I am prepared to consult with my colleague from IenW on the priority vehicles. In this motion, it's all being thrown into a pile. Then it's all just too much and I have to discourage the motion. If Mr Graus changes it to "calls on the government to see if that emergency aid can be included as a priority vehicle," I am prepared to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u332	I'm about to amend this motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u333	You don't even have to adjust her, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u334	Yes! I'm gonna have to adjust that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u335	Yes. He's gonna have to adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u336	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u337	If I'm going to see if I can, I'm going to go in consultation with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u338	And then the motion judgment is Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u339	Then it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u340	Very good. The motion in part No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u341	No, first the motion in part No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u342	Right. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u343	This DNA database has been investigated. Both investigations have been completed and I will send them to your Chamber very soon. So I'd like to ask if this motion can be held until you can see what...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u344	Mr Graus says yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u345	The motion in part No. Thirty-two, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Thirty-three, I'm not sure. It's just not true that they're subordinate. The motion in part No. 34 I don't recommend. The motion in part No. 35 is about the experimental areas. That motion I can give judgment Chamber. Like the motion in part No. 36 on the new manure policy has been formulated, I can give her judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 37 asks me to do something I already intended to do. It's in line with what I'm proposing, so judgment room. In the motion in part No. 38 are asked to release these funds immediately. There is also an amendment tabled by Mrs Beckerman. I told her I understand that she cares about those food forests. I also attach importance to this, but it is not just that I have the resources available right now. But I am willing to see if there are any possibilities within the existing jars. If Mrs. Beckerman would like to amend the motion in that way, I could give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u346	Say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u347	I do not want to be more acidic than the Veluwe either, so I amend the motion and I withdraw the amendment in part No. 23 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u348	Very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u349	With that adjustment I can make the motion in part no. 38 Judgment Chamber. I can make the motion in part no. 39 on research into the reptile fairs The analysis Mrs Beckerman is asking for is coming. I can also use the NVWA to see how we can use the existing instruments properly. Then the motion to part No. 41. We had a little debate about why I can't do that, however much I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u350	I thought we were at the motion in part no. 40 were.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u351	The motion in part No. 40, yeah. Sorry. I think all kinds of things, but this is just in the EU Transport Regulation, so I simply can't do it. That's why I have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 41 on the examination of the derogation. We are still talking to the European Commission about obtaining the derogation. I have already said that this is not self-evident. This motion is actually asking for a two-way investigation: to get it or not. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to your Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 42. Last time, of course, we found the means to go through the national parks ourselves. I do not have the resources now, but I am prepared to look at it, which is also a little in line with what Mrs Beckerman is asking for, what could possibly be done there, so to some kind of heavy effort. Then I can give the motion judgment chamber. The motion in part No. 43 is a speech-exmotion, so I don't think I have to find that much of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u352	You're generous, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u353	Sure. Then the motion to part No. 44 on the extraction of gas in Ternaard. I just told you the trial is going on. The authorisation procedure is simply a set process. That's what I'm following. That's also the administrative route. So I'm not suggesting this motion. I would like to ask whether the motion in part No. 45 may be detained. That is because we are still talking to these parties ourselves, I understand. That is, I think, also about the issues that are mentioned in this motion. Then I would suggest that I report back the results of that conversation. Then we can involve the parts of this motion, but first I would like to speak to the parties myself. I would therefore like to ask whether Mr Thijssen can continue this motion. Then I admit that we are reporting back on the outcome of the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u354	I'd like to do that. Is this minister still able to report back or will it be the successor?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u355	That's a question of conscience, of course. I don't know. You're trying to get some news out of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u356	Yeah, I'm just trying to get some information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u357	I don't know. I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u358	Can you give me something of a deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u359	I don't think it's gonna work for Christmas anymore, because there's a lot left. I would say that after Christmas we really try to enter that conversation and then inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u360	At the request of Mr Thijssen, I propose his motion (35925-XIV, No. 45). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u361	The motion in part No. 46 is about the phosphate indicator. Of course, in the seventh AP we already have the possibilities to apply organic dust-rich fertilisers. However, this may result in a limited increase in nitrate leaching and in the nitrogen load of surface water. It may differ between the different types of fertilizers. May I interpret the motion in such a way that you ask for an intermediate category for some types of manure, in which it accounts for 50% in the phosphate use area? Then I can give this motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u362	Mr Boswijk nods, so that has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u363	Okay. With that explanation I give the motion in part No. 46 Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 47 belongs to Mrs Bromet. We're going to evaluate this case, too. Here you are asked to ask Radboud University for example to look at this. We're still trying to figure out how to do that. I don't want to pin myself down at Radboud University, but I think it says "for example." If I can keep that open, I'm prepared to give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u364	I think Mrs Bromet should confirm that. Yes, that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u365	The motion in part No. 48 asks the provinces to draw attention to the possibilities of the Wvg. The Wvg is an existing instrument. The provinces know that instrument, so I really don't have to point it out. I would advise against this motion. Then there's the practical internship. You know the counteroffer: I would like to take over this motion, but then I look forward to seeing you all on the other side of the Bezuidenhoutseweg to carry out our work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u366	Is there any objection to taking over this motion? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u367	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u368	No, no, no, it's just being taken over. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u369	Take over? Okay. Then the motion to part No. 50 on the National Real Estate Company. If I may explain the motion in such a way that the cabinet is asked to make an effort for such an arrangement, then I can give her judgment Chamber. For now the motion is very compelling, but if the commitment is okay, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u370	Mr Grinwis has nodded. Then the motion to part No. 51.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u371	The eel motion. I am not going to propose a specific plan, but I can draw attention at European level to the importance of resolving these migration bottlenecks. If that is enough for Mr Grinwis, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u372	That's absolutely enough for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u373	Then the motion-Vestering/Boswijk in part No. 52. It is true that animals must have access to drinking water. That is why we have already said to the sector: you yourself must come up with a plan on how to further develop it. So this is a confirmation that we are implementing that policy. With that explanation, I can give the motion judgment chamber. Then the motion to part No. 53 on more objectives and measures to accelerate the transition to a more plant-based diet. Of course, we already have a protein strategy. We also have a broader focus on the balance between animal protein and plant protein. This motion calls for further action. A lot's been going on, so I'm gonna dissuade this one. Then the calves. The motion in part No. 54 specifically asks for a ban on the transport of calves under 28 days of age. I would actually like to take a good look at what is going on in Germany, because this motion states that Germany has already decided to increase the minimum age for that transport to four weeks. I know that this is something that has to do with the transport regulation, so allow me to see what is going on in Germany. I would ask you to hold this motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u374	Mrs. Vestering confirms that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u375	Then the motion to part No. 55. The motion in part No. 56 looks a little bit the same. We have the Bekedam report. I'll come back with a reaction to that. I already promised. This motion anticipates matters that are already being discussed there, about poultry farms in wetlands. I would first like to comment on the Bekedam Committee's report, so I now advise against these two motions. Then the motion to part No. 57. We have just had a whole debate on this. The VGO is running. I have promised that I will enter into talks with the provinces to see if they would like to introduce the moratorium where this is not yet taking place. This motion is just one step further, so I advise against it. Then the motion to part No. 58. I thought I'd already made a commitment, but then we're just getting back on top of it. Sometimes I think: then I don't have to make any more promises. I'm sorry, because I think we were on the same side of the rope. But this one's just moving on, so I'm gonna back off this motion. I think I already agreed that I was trying to do something about this. The motion in part No. 59 passes before the summer a plan for 150,000 extra hectares of nature. I don't recommend that motion. Then we'll have the means with pomegranate. I have already explained, also in the written reply, that the re-evaluation is ongoing and that we are also looking at what comes out in the European Commission. As a result, we also decide what we are going to do with it. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 61: actually along the same line. The re-evaluation of arthropods also looks at the neurotoxicity, so I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 62. I sent you what I had on the crown domain last Monday. That's what I got. I therefore advise against this motion, because you received documents last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u376	Mr Wassenberg, as always.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u377	That's my middle name, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to see if the documents we've been given are indeed what lawyers say you need. Then I'll hold the motion and see if I can still put it to the vote. I'm holding the motion, in part no. 62 I believe, on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u378	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (35925-XIV, No. 62). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u379	Yes, you have what I have. The motion in part No. Sixty-three, I'm not sure. We have, on occasion, made funds available for this. There's gonna be an RDA recommendation. We'll see what comes out of there, so I'm gonna back off this motion. If I make the motion to part No. 64 in such a way that I am going to investigate whether I can come to a ban and what it takes to do so, then I can give her judgment Chamber. I'm gonna take a look at the petitioner, see if he's okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u380	That is Mr Wassenberg and he confirms this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u381	Yeah, okay, with that explanation, the judgment room. The motion in part No. 65. I made arrangements with the Dolphinarium. You've been able to take note of that, too. That's also included in the permit. The authorisation shall be subject to supervision. If the agreements are not complied with, they will be dealt with. This motion is actually ahead of us, so I would advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 66: I've already said it's under the judge now. January 6th is followed by a ruling. I can't anticipate that, so I advise against this motion. Then the lobsters and the crabs. If I may read the motion in this way, it seems as if it was formulated as well, that we are looking... I just said it really takes some steps to get there. But it seems most practical to me now to see what it takes not to do it now if it doesn't have to; in a different way. If I may read the motion as just described, I'll give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u382	Mr Wassenberg confirms that. Then the motion to part No. 68.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u383	Yeah, the eel and stop completely. We have an eel management plan with guarantees. This motion goes one step further, so we advise against her. The motion in part No. 69 I can give judgment Chamber, because we want to see the importance of this and share best practices. So I can give you my word; Judgement Chamber. The motion in part No. 70's a speech-out, so it's not for me. Same for the motion in part No. 71. The motion in part No. 72 I can give judgment Chamber. I mentioned the importance of looking at the quality of life in the countryside. This motion calls for further examination, and I am prepared to do so. In the motion in part No. 73 is suggested to be quite a significant shift. I think we have a balanced programme here. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 74 calls for target requirements at company level. It's where we want to go, but we're not there yet, I'm telling you honestly. The transition to target requirements and real-time measurement are for the long term. We still need to examine that and test it in pilots for further deployment. It is therefore too early to include target requirements and real-time conditionally in the programme nitrogen reduction and nature enhancement, so I advise against this motion. It's the way we're going, but it's not the way we're going. I can't. Then the motion to part No. 75 on the co-financing of the pilot projects. I told you, the grant is pending. I read the motion in such a way that we need to put pressure on it so that there is a quick outcome and we will see how we can do it. This motion I can give judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 76, it's about targeted policy. I was just talking to Mr Bishop about it. There it was conditional, here it is the way forward. The request is to see how to apply it better. That's what we want to do. Of course, it cannot be done in the short term, but it is how we should do it in the long term. With that explanation, I can give this motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 77, which notes that there is no scientific basis and that authorisation is legally weak. We have scientific support. The scientific authority that the PBL is asking for really has a different status than is suggested in this motion. So I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. 78 calls for a scientific committee from the various North Sea Member States. We have an extensive research program under the NZA. We also include the internationally known data that are also relevant for the Netherlands. If I can explain the motion in this way, I can give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u384	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas. All you have to do is nod. Oh, you have a supplementary question. I call Mrs van der Plas. Just the question, huh? We can march right through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u385	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. I have a supplementary question. I have the request to inform the Chamber before 1 May 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u386	I'd like to explain the motion in a moment, but I'm just trying to wait until we have all those tests. I am not going to appoint another separate scientific committee from the different Member States, because we are already collecting those data. We are already exchanging this data with Member States. Then I'm gonna do something we're already doing. If Mrs. Van der Plas agrees that we use the data we already have... look, the motion here asks about the potentially disastrous effects on the ecosystem. Let me put it this way: I was trying to meet Mrs van der Plas. If she says "I really need that committee and we're gonna do it like this," then I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u387	I'm just gonna wait a second. Maybe I'll hold the motion or I'll change her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u388	Okay, that's good. The portal is that we already have the information. If the motion is a confirmation that we also have to share the information well, then the motion is judgment Chamber. But if we're going to have to put something completely new up here again, I don't think that's gonna make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u389	So in this form, the motion has been dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 79.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u390	The motion in part No. 79. This is in line with the opinion of the Innovation Task Force.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u391	It is not quite clear now what the conclusion is on the motion in part No. 78. The Minister has made an interpretation, but I do not know whether Mrs Van der Plas agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u392	She's gonna sleep on it. She may come up with a new version, but in the current version...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u393	...the motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u394	Then the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u395	I made an attempt to say the following. We have the data. If the request is to exchange it properly, that's fine. But if I have to set up a separate committee or argue for it, then I am not going to do so. That seems a little too much of a good thing. The motion in part No. 79 asks for the sensor and data systems to be anchored in the law in accordance with the advice of the task force. We're just trying to figure out how to use those sensor and data systems. The motion calls for this to be enshrined in the law. That is a little too soon, but if we are to be encouraged to work with it and continue with it, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. But then Mrs Van der Plas has to "anchored in the law" out now, because I just can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u396	Mrs. Van der Plas is gonna come up with a new version and then it's gonna come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u397	The next motion, in part No. 80, it's about a discussion we've had before. I'm not going to recommend this motion. The motion in part No. 81 calls for the impact of this moratorium on innovation and the sustainability of the sector. I advise against this motion. We also have an agreement with the sector on sustainability and we are working on it. Then the motion to part No. 82. I understand the question that lies below, only, we have the annual data that Dekker provides on the incomes of the various sub-sectors in agriculture and horticulture. These are published by sub-sector. Inside, the differences are also large. It's not like you have a clear picture of that either. I therefore believe that these data are available. What this motion is asking for is very specific. That is, in other words, very different from one sector to another. We have data, we pay attention to that, but what this motion is asking for is very specific and partly overlapping with what we have already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u398	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u399	In this way, dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 83. We just had that little debate. The VGO is running. If we now add all kinds of sectors, it will only take longer and become more complex, so I am going to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u400	Clear. Let me now turn to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u401	I have another question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 72 by Mr Eppink, who deals with basic public services such as postal services, police stations and so on. The minister says "judge chamber" about an investigation by the government on how rural areas can be kept viable through the guarantee of basic public services. That's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u402	What an anger all of a sudden. I have said that I would like to see the possibilities of keeping the countryside viable. He's asking for an investigation. I read it in a way that he also looks at whether the means of guaranteeing basic public services contributes to the viability of rural areas and, if so, in what way. We can investigate that, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u403	Let's not discuss this motion completely again, I suggest. We still have a number of amendments to deal with. One has been withdrawn, namely the Beckerman amendment to part No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u404	Let me get my paperwork in order. The amendment in part No. Twenty-two, I'm not sure. The amendment in part No. 23 just moved in. Then we have the amendment to item No. 24, I think I have been able to examine the biggest amendment ever tabled to our budget. With pain in my heart, I have to dissuade it anyway, because there's no cover for the rest. We have already said at first that this is a road that we are thinking of, but that it is really a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u405	Then there is a standard amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt, which he submits to each budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u406	Yeah, that was tempting. I thought of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u407	He's always been dissuaded so far by all the ministers. Perhaps you would like to make an exception in this last budget. Then we'll call Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u408	I am getting into a bit of trouble, Mr President, because all these officials have to go on internship, but then they are fired, if this amendment is adopted, so it will not be a very big party either. We'd better not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u409	So the cabinet speaks with one mouth. So much for the motions and the amendments. I'm sure the Minister would like to say a nice final word to us. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u410	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I told you last year. At that time, I thought it was the last budget discussion I was going to have here with the Chamber. I say that again, but I will make myself a little small, to prevent that. It has always been a pleasure to have the debate with your Chamber on the extremely beautiful policy area of LNV. To add something tangible to that, I intend, on behalf of each group, to give a tree to a food forest that is still to be built, so that we also remain a little on the subject. To speak freely to Luke 6: by the fruits you recognize the tree. Then you can look yourself later and think: what tree would have been for me? The beauty of the food forest is that all these different trees all need each other again. Perhaps that reminds you that we all need a little bit of each other to move forward in this society, but certainly also in this Chamber. Thank you very much. I'll tell you where the trees are gonna end up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u411	We thank the Minister not only for today, but also for cooperation in recent years. I am sure I speak on behalf of everyone when I say that we wish her all the best for the future. We'll certainly miss her if she doesn't return to this post. Good luck to her!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-10.u412	We will soon be voting on the motions, the amendments and the budget. So much for this debate. I shall close the sitting of 2 December 2021.
