ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on young people who have suffered from the closure of the Hoenderloo Group. There are 12 speakers here today. We have the pleasure of having two maiden speeches today. These are the contributions of Mr De Neef of the VVD Group and Mr Ceder of the Christian Union Group. I would like to welcome the rulers. That's Mr. Slob, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Secretary of State Blok...Sorry, Secretary of State Blokhuis. This is my first time as chairman. That's an exciting experience, isn't it? Well, then I made the first little, interesting mistake. That won't happen after this. We have agreed that there is the possibility of asking each other three questions and six questions in total to the Secretary of State and the Minister. I would suggest that we have a good meeting and a good debate. We have time, but of course it is up to everyone's personal discipline to ensure that the debate can also be well concluded. The first to speak is Mr Kwint, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The parents, the staff of De Hoenderloo Groep, but above all, the vulnerable young people, the young people who need care and guidance, the young people who were promised time and time again that it would be arranged for them! They got this from Karel Verweij, the director of Pluryn, who previously waved the scepter at, among others, Insula Dei in Arnhem, Thebe in Breda and Cordaan in Amsterdam. A common thread: a fat salary of many tons, a car with driver and fighting with the whole workplace; fired and chaos. But these youngsters have not only been tricked by Karel Verweij and Pluryn, they have also been tricked by the municipality of Apeldoorn, who repeatedly promised that there would be a suitable place for everyone, which got angry when the SP said that children would be moved around like packages. Tendentially it would be; Charles Verweij and Pluryn would handle it fantastic. Otherwise, the alderman would intervene. Verweij did it worthless and the alderman stood there and looked at it. Minister De Jonge said: no, no child falls between shore and ship. Minister Slob said that there would be an appropriate educational place for each child. It was never appropriate. What did happen was that against every promise was cashed in by a care facility that ran a field, and that children came home, were suddenly seen as untreatable. Maybe they've also become untreatable because of all the soloing and uncertainty. A little government, a little care organization takes a step. He's not gonna bitch about whose job it is, he's gonna take care of things. Not here! Karel Verweij and Pluryn say they're all very bored for those youngsters, but they did their best. The cabinet says it's all very boring for those young people, but it's really up to the municipality. Moreover, all those parents who report here, who report to Members of Parliament, who report to EenVandaag with the message that no bag has come of the promises of Karel Verweij and Pluryn, who have not reported to the correct address and are therefore not known to the Ministry. What an idiot system this is! What kind of system is this in which no one can be reckoned with on something he's ever promised to vulnerable young people, in which those young people who deserve our protection are fucked hard and then nothing changes? 'Cause what's a promise from this cabinet worth? What is it worth when you say "there is no vulnerable young person falling between shore and ship" when that happens afterwards and the cabinet does not go beyond: that is not our fault, but another's fault? How is it that Karel Verweij's mischief has been admitted to Pluryn for so long? How can it be that motions with "no irreversible steps until every young person has found a place" and "keep the school open" simply are not carried out? And how can it be that times after the emergency cry of municipalities, crying out for more money for specialist youth care, nothing still happens? The least the SP wants is for the cabinet to pick up the phone and call all those kids and their parents. Pluryn out! Ask yourself: is your place appropriate, or are we going to find a place for you? Oh, yeah, and I'm sorry it turned out this way; we should have done better. And what does the Cabinet ultimately learn from this? I hope that at least now is the time when it realizes that specialist youth care does not belong to the municipality, that it has to go to the Empire and that more money is needed. In what way are we going to ensure that inspections do not take place only when the total has gone out of control? How are we going to ensure that they intervene before care institutions and schools are de facto closed? And how are you going to avoid it, because I believe that this cabinet has made those promises in the sacred belief that it would not go so wrong, that it will go as badly as it did with The Hoenderloo Group? These kids are so fucked!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	I would like to thank Mr Kwint for his contribution. I am looking at Mrs Westerveld, who will now speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. "No child gets between shore and ship." That is just what Mr Kwint said, but that was also particularly said by the predecessor of this Secretary of State. Those are very nice words, but the day before yesterday I spoke to Robin Vineyards of 15. Maybe the rulers know him, because a year ago he wrote a letter to Mark Rutte in which he ends with: "I'm so desperate that I've seriously thought about robbing myself of life, this because I don't see what my future and life will look like anymore." Mr. Chairman. Let it work on you for a while. This wrote a 15-year-old child who was forced to move when De Hoenderloo Group closed. The place where he ended up had to close again within three months due to circumstances, and then moved to his now nineteenth place. Nineteen! He had to leave there three weeks ago, and now he has nowhere to go. It's that he's being taken in by a friend of mine, because if he hadn't, Robin would have been out on the street by now. He hasn't made it to school in over a year, and when I asked him a few days ago, "What do you need?', Then he was very good at telling me. He said, "I actually need a place where I don't have to go anymore, where I get some education; I need help, someone who's just there for me when it's necessary and who's trying to understand me, that's it." But, Mr. Chairman, apparently there are no such places. Robin isn't the only former Hoenderloober with whom things aren't going well. That is why I was so surprised that the Secretary of State insisted that an appropriate follow-up had been found for everyone on the day of closure. 'Cause how appropriate is a place like that if you have to get out of there soon? And how fitting is such a place when there's just no education? Why does it seem like the Secretary of State is speaking for Pluryn, instead of the Ministry being there for these children and for these parents, who at least tell us the opposite? Mr. Chairman. Over and over again some of these children have had to move and time and time again they have lost their trust in aid workers and in people in general. The Children's Ombudsman also concluded that the importance of children was not paramount and apparently the importance of children is still not paramount. We said last year: if you close The Hoenderloo Group, there are not enough places for these children to go. That's what it turns out. Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions that I would like a specific answer to. The first question is: what is the Secretary of State going to do to ensure that there are enough places for these children, where they receive care, wherever they receive education? To what extent is the conversation with children and parents about what is appropriate now? Because that's what the kids and the parents think differently than at least the board of Pluryn. What are the rights, including of children and parents, when such a place as The Hoenderloo Group is closed? Is the Secretary of State also prepared to withdraw the ruling of his predecessor that no child falls between shore and ship with the knowledge of today? Because I think we can all see that this has not been done. Could the cabinet just admit that things have gone wrong? I also missed that in the answers to our Parliamentary questions, when we really do see that things have not gone well at all and that children have not come to the right place. Mr. Chairman. Is it also true that there will be a new healthcare provider on the premises of The Hoenderloo Group who will provide exactly the same care as The Hoenderloo Group? I was sent a flyer, and I was rather surprised at that, also because the minister, Minister De Jonge.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That was one of the reasons The Hoenderloo Group closed down and had to get kids out of there. Now I just see that there's a new healthcare provider in exactly that place that offers similar care. What a blow to the face of parents and children who had to leave, now that they see that other children are going to live there. I don't blame the healthcare provider who's in there right now, but I blame the cabinet for that. This tragedy isn't over yet, or the next one is coming. This week it was also announced that the inspection revoked the license of youth protector Briedis in Zeeland. This means that 139 children must also be transferred to other institutions. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that children and parents will be properly listened to and that the importance of children will be paramount? Or is the situation going to repeat itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	I would like to thank Mrs Westerveld, who spoke on behalf of GroenLinks, and to give the floor to Mrs Maeijer, who will make her contribution on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last summer, the doors of an institution that was almost the only one of its kind in the Netherlands closed, where young people had often found a place to live and learn after a long search. A place where vulnerable children with complex problems could rebuild their lives a bit. A "last resort," that's how The Hoenderloo Group was characterized. An institution that you would expect everything to be put on everything to keep, instead of closing the doors with steam and boiling water. But nothing could be further from the truth. There have been stories for a long time that selling the real estate and the property would lead to large profits. In August last year, the doors were finally closed. The beautiful terrain has been sold to a developer. We would like to know how this sale was made and whether it did not take place over the backs of these vulnerable young people. I'd like a response. From the beginning, there were great concerns among those involved, and here in the Chamber, about whether it would be possible to find a suitable and sustainable place for all these children. My group has immediately warned that the places where living, care and education are facilitated are not the place to pick up. From the outset, the harmfulness of the rapid closure was pointed out. Over and over again, it was assured that no child would get between shore and ship. Today's study shows that not all young people have come to a successful conclusion and that some people's problems have indeed got worse, while the cabinet wrote to the Chamber earlier that everyone had found a suitable and sustainable place. According to OneToday, young people are forced home, in an unsustainable situation for the child and for the whole family. About that research Professor of Youth Law Bruning said: "Olders and children have been abandoned because they have not been given the care they are entitled to." "Abandoned..." while the cabinet and the organizations concerned had assured them that it would be okay. You should not think as a parent or as a younger person that, after all these families have already had to go through, this new stressful quest, the new rejections, the new move and the waiting have been added. There's kids at home, while they can't be at home, no matter how much anyone wants to be at home. What an impact that must have on the family. When I put the news reports of EenVandaag and the letter and the answers to the written questions of the Secretary of State side by side, I see two versions, which I cannot rhyme with each other. According to the Secretary of State, there are no signs that young people would not be in a suitable place after the closure of De Hoenderloo Groep. Insofar as these young people would not have a sustainable place, this is because parents who turned down an offer from Pluryn and opted for an alternative. On top of that, the Secretary of State calls on parents and young people to report via an e-mail address if they have not been able to find the right care. Mr. Chairman. For me, this file and this portfolio are new, but this is so sad. It really seems like the world is upside down. A cabinet that said that no one would fall between shore and ship should be expected to be more active than we would sit back and wait for some e-mails. They are children who once again suffer, when everyone starts pointing at each other again. A promise has been made, and it must be kept. So take the lead, Secretary of State Blokhuis. Find out the situation of the young people who stayed at De Hoenderloo Groep. Don't sit around waiting for e-mails or other instances, but find out. Have they all found a suitable and sustainable place? If not, what is the Secretary of State going to do to ensure that these problems are resolved in the short term? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like to thank Mrs Maeijer for her contribution on behalf of the PVV Group. I invite Mr. De Neef to make his maiden speech. This means that it is formally the first time that a new Member of Parliament has chosen to speak in plenary. That is always a very special moment, no matter what the subject matter is. I'd like to invite you behind the chair, Mr. De Neef.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Give me the calm to accept what I cannot change, the courage to change what I can change, and the wisdom to know the difference. Yes we can!" Mr. Chairman. This may be a rather unusual way to start a maiden speech, but it's a very common meeting closure in the youth clinic where I worked a year ago. This is called a calm prayer, but the secular variant, pronounced by young people between 13 and 23 years of age with mental problems, addictions and behavioural problems. Young people stuck in health care. Young people who are in so much trouble that the street or the prison still seem to be the only excuse. Young people who have been through a life of misery in their short lives. To hear those young people speak such a mantra, gives goosebumps. It still makes me feel good in memory. For there is hope: hope for better times, hope for a future. And so it was. I saw lonely young people with game addiction slowly turning back to the real world. I saw timid teenagers with drug addiction slowly reconcile with sobering sobriety. I saw initially exploded youngsters blossoming again in close proximity to their parents or bonus parents. And I saw courage. Courage to stop covering arms full of scars from automutilating on hot days. Courage to tell your own life story in front of other young people and adults. And the courage not to run from life anymore, but to face it in all facets. Let me put it first: it wasn't always a success story in my clinic. For some young people the treatment was too heavy or too light, regardless of the tireless use of highly experienced and qualified specialists. But then the network came into view. A young person was never left to his fate, but was actively escorted to a follow-up place. Consultation with parents or bonus parents, municipalities, psychiatrists and psychologists and experienced group counsellors provided an alternative where the young people would be better placed. Mr. Chairman. I treasure the memories of my job in this clinic. I was able to see the greatness of spirits from very vulnerable young people, who managed to pull their own hair out of the swamp, to the experienced colleagues who knew exactly what young people needed because they were in their shoes. A wonderful working environment, which still assists me daily, and I am pleased to be able to tell your Chamber something about it today in my maiden speech. But it's not about my clinic or her kids today. It concerns those young people who, after closing the Hoenderloo Group, had to receive, receive or still have to receive an appropriate follow-up place. Let me put it this way, because the cabinet states in its letter and answers that a suitable follow-up has been found for all young people. But the broadcast of EenVandaag shows that these places have not proved appropriate for a number of young people. The VVD therefore wants to know the following matters of the cabinet. How many Hoenderloo Group youngsters are still at home? What perspective are they offered? What role do the municipalities play in this outlined perspective? How is communication going about those young people between the Empire, municipalities, parents, young people and Pluryn? Is the cabinet satisfied with this communication? What exciting role will the cabinet play between these young people and the municipalities? How and where can parents and young people report in? I hope that the leaders present will be able to answer this today, but above all I hope that the problems will be solved for the young people and their parents. I wish you the calmness to accept what you cannot change, the courage to change what you can change, and the wisdom to know the difference. Yes you can! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	I thank Mr De Neef, who has just given his maiden speech here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would suggest that we suspend for a while, to ensure that people can congratulate you, of course, in full compliance with the corona rules. If you stand up for this, Members will be given the opportunity to congratulate you. Congratulations on my behalf, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	Now that the congratulations have been expressed and Mr De Neef may be relieved and, of course, proud to return to his place, I suggest that we proceed with the debate and the debate. I call Mr Raemakers, who will speak on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr President. My heart breaks every time I look at reportages about kids who can't find their way into youth care. For example, there are children who do not receive specialist help because they have too many diagnoses. There are children who suddenly need to be transferred. There are even children who sit at home and do not receive education. Every child counts. Unfortunately, we regularly see and read the reports on these individual cases, as well as the umpteenth report on De Hoenderloo Groep van EenVandaag of 23 March. We have had many debates and many letters about this care institution. When the report came, I immediately thought: "How can this happen? Surely it would be arranged that no child would fall between shore and ship?" The situation seems to be gloomy and tormentful for some young people. But in the letters of the Minister and the Secretary of State, I read that they say: yes, but that message is not correct; it is all arranged. It seems to be becoming a well-known non-debate. That is why I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State: where is that difference? Have the ministries been in contact with the editors of EenVandaag? Have they been in contact with the parents concerned and if so, what did they get out of it? In fact, what does the Secretary of State mean by "a good and appropriate follow-up"? How many of the 160 children do not receive care and how many do not receive education according to this definition? How are the Secretary of State and the Minister looking at the findings of the Children's Ombudsman? He felt that Pluryn should have made a plan of approach for every child in advance with the municipalities, so that the uncertainty of today would not have been there or less. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that inspections also have an important role to play, both in Pluryn's education and care department. I read in the letter that no further reports have been made at the inspections, but this can also be because the threshold for reporting is too high. How easy is it for parents to make an inspection report? Are they actively pointing out this possibility? Second. I also think that we should look forward and avoid similar misery. Like I said, every kid counts. Every child has the right to a bright future with equal opportunities. Especially vulnerable children in youth care and special education need extra help. I therefore really hope to be able to minimise the number of reports on individual cases. The situation surrounding De Hoenderloo Groep is now being evaluated, but by Pluryn himself. How does the cabinet view a more independent evaluation? As far as I'm concerned, that does require changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Raemakers, you have an interruption from Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	I hear Mr. Raemakers saying that he was thinking, "How can this happen?', When he saw the reportage of EenVandaag. I would like to ask him: was he really surprised? Because, of course, the whole Chamber has warned about what would happen. Not just us: even more important is that parents, children, the inspection and the Children's Ombudsman have all been very critical over the past year. So except that I would like to know if he was really surprised, I would also like to ask him what should happen now to prevent this from happening in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	I was surprised because the then portfolio holder, Minister Hugo de Jonge, made a fairly clear promise to the Chamber, and of course to the children and the parents. De Jonge said no child will fall between shore and ship; we're gonna take care of this. A motion by Mrs Westerveld and others was also adopted to report on this to the Chamber on a biweekly basis. We also had some reports on this last summer, I believe. So you assume it's settled, when you hear from the person responsible here that it's going to be arranged. I was surprised, therefore, that some of this does not seem to be the case at the moment. I'd like to know more about that. Then there is the question of what we need to do to prevent this happening in the future. I read about an early warning system, where, if there are problems with youth care institutions, you start looking very early to see if there is a potential risk that children may lose their place, and if you can already involve other organisations and other actors in time, so that there is as much continuity of care as possible and those children do not have to switch places or caregivers. I think we need to take further steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think we're just sitting here watching what's going on, because we've moved in from the Chamber together. There are also quite a few motions passed by the entire Chamber. Yet this is happening. So it feels a little like we've all walked in there with our eyes open. I would like to ask Mr Raemakers whether we should also do something about the system. Should we consider, for example, whether we can better guarantee the rights of parents and children? In fact, I think we can all see here that, at least in the decision-making process, parents and children have been sidelined on all sides. So does he see anything in that? Does D66 see anything in it to look more closely at the rights of parents and children?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	In any case, you know from our election programme that we want to put specialist care, the youth ggz, back under the Health Insurance Act. Now, of course, this is a three-environmental provision, so that is not entirely the solution for, for example, De Hoenderloo Groep. But another issue that Mrs Westerveld points out, namely the rights of children and parents, has our attention. We are also working to look at this more closely. Perhaps we can also see what we could do together in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	Before you go any further, I see that Mr Kwint also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	My question focuses mainly on the question of how to prevent it from happening in the future. This didn't come out of the sky. Mr. Raemakers says, "I'm surprised." I understand that on the basis of the letter of office. I know what he's talking about. But all the signals were red. For a year we have heard from staff, from parents, from children themselves: "Guys, there is no suitable place for us. This can't go away now." How should politics be able to ensure that these children do not lose their place in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	At Pluryn the finances were a problem, but for De Hoenderloo Groep the quality of care was also a problem. If we see that coming from reports, we should be able to anticipate this and say, by "we" I mean the system: the Empire, municipalities and youth care organisations, and say, "This is about the importance of the child. We want to arrange it for these children in advance." As the Kinderombudsman already wrote and as I mentioned, we need to make a plan of approach for every child in advance, talk to those who can do so and arrange all this in advance. We don't have to close the place down first, and then we're gonna take care of it. I think that's an important lesson.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u21	I note that at least there was enough money at Pluryn to put down a high-paying driver. But, of course, there was a plan. Pluryn said, "No, we're gonna take care of that. There are plenty of places in the region. We are going to make sure that no one falls between shore and ship." The question is what to do from the government with a care organization that keeps up appearances time and time again, breaks promises, playing with the quality of life of those children. Shouldn't we be able to intervene harder there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u22	I believe that we have an inspection for this, which looks at it and in this case has also noted: the quality of care is insufficient. I think that side of our system is working pretty well. At some point we had quite a map that the quality is less. But there is no early solution in our system, where you say: "We know that there is going to be a change, because we cannot maintain this care facility in this place, and how do we ensure that the children suffer from it as little as possible?" So we need to get that child's perspective involved sooner. I agree with what the Children's Ombudsman wrote about it. And I would like to call on the Cabinet to put the lessons of the Children's Ombudsman into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u23	I see Mrs. Kuik has an interruption for you, too. Before you continue your speech, she will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u24	I had lunch with Mr Peters yesterday. Someone asked if we had a fight, because I was doing my story with a lot of arm gestures and voice enhancements. We were talking about this subject. I'm still, a year after that, incredibly angry. I'm mad at Pluryn because they've made a hell of a mess. But I'm also mad at the cabinet. We all said take three months, take six months, take a little longer, because it's going too fast. We have said that this is not the way to achieve a good transitional arrangement for these children. Those signals have just been ignored. The employees have been ignored. The parents have been ignored. The children have been ignored. And the room has also been ignored. This happened while all the signals were on red. So my question is very simple: doesn't that aspect just piss you off? We shouldn't fall into all kinds of administrative traps here again. The Chamber has said take time, because it is not going well. That signal's just been ignored. My question is, do you accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u25	This is a debate. I actually put this question to the government today, to the Secretary of State and the Minister. I am very surprised that all kinds of sources show that it is not well arranged for a lot of children. This is evident from the report of EenVandaag, from the e-mails that we receive from those involved, but also from other sources. At the same time, the cabinet writes us a letter stating that it is well arranged for everyone, except for three children. And then we have some kids for whom it suddenly... I mean, that's a whole different picture. It would only be a few cases. That image is opposed to the image that the media sketches and is called the "first hand." I want to test that image today. So I really want the facts to come up. And if it turns out that it really is about more children and that the cabinet has really failed to do so, then I am certainly on Mrs Kuik's side. But I'd like to hear those answers first today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u26	But it's about more kids. At least a year ago, a number of children fell between shore and ship, and a number of children are still falling between shore and ship. Living may be arranged, but care, daily spending, treatment and therapy are not yet. That's just the facts. And we let it happen to us every time. Mr Bosma often talks about lamb or lion. I'm kind of done blabbing, but not biting. So we should not ask, but we should also ensure that if all signals are on red and we find something about them, the cabinet listens to them too. We shouldn't accept it all the time if that doesn't happen, whether we're from the opposition or the coalition. That's actually what's going on here. I hope that Mr Raemakers will see that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u27	I can see that for sure. I was also surprised to see in the reportage of EenVandaag that a child was assigned a certain treatment site, but that the school was not there yet and the treatment staff were not there yet. Do you think it's weird that parents say we don't take that place? If things were like this, I wouldn't have much faith that things would work out in that place. I read in the letter that this is about three young people. I also see the passages in which the treatment is often complex and erratic, and that means that young people have to change places again. That's what I read in the cabinet letter. I would also like to know how many children are involved. I want us to get the facts about that group, too. So I can understand your concern and anger very well, but I would like to know what the cabinet's answers to these questions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u28	Finalizing, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u29	I think it's more young people, but even if it's only three. They have no one but us to stand up for them. Apart from these three young people, there are so many more young people. Because the problem isn't the earlywarning system. The fact is that we just don't have enough places for children who happen to have a few consonants and vowels behind their names, and a disorder there, because they're too complicated, are too difficult. And now there's a guy who got kicked out of a care facility and lives with a mother who had a son of his own at The Hoenderloo Group, because he's no longer welcome with his parents, is no longer welcome in a care facility. That's the country we made together. I hope that Mr Raemakers will continue to fight for these children, even if there is only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u30	I don't see a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u31	However, I would like to respond, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u32	I understand. But before you do that, I can see that Mrs Simons has also come to the interrupting microphone. I suggest that you answer first and then Mrs Simons asks her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u33	In response to Mrs Kuik: I totally agree with her, because every child counts. That is also what I have indicated in my text. Especially for those three children for whom there is apparently still no solution, I have also asked for this. I expect the Ministry to make a phone call asking how this can be resolved as soon as possible. But when it comes to waiting lists and too little specialist assistance for young people, we also agree with D66 that, for example, when it comes to youth-ggz, we need to recentralise and increase the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u34	You have an interruption from Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u35	I was wondering if D66 is familiar with the fact that everything was wrong with De Hoenderloo Groep, but that was not in the care. The inspection confirmed that, too. If so, I wonder why D66 goes with that frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u36	The reports I have seen at least show that the finances are not in order and that Pluryn had a very large deficit on them. But I have also seen that the quality of The Hoenderloo Group would not be sufficient on points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u37	I see that you are convinced that that is the information you have. I have very different information: everything was wrong and there were also many reasons to close that group, but the inspection confirms that it was not in his care. That seems to me to be one of the key issues we are discussing around this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u38	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u39	I don't really have a question. 'Cause I hear we both seem to have other information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u40	Clear. Then I suggest that Mr Raemakers continue his speech after his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u41	Perhaps a brief response to Mrs Simons. Of course, it may well be that the inspection identifies a number of deficiencies in a report, but that the organisation may also offer very good care and that a lot of children are very much helped in doing so. Some critical notes of the inspection do not mean that the concern is not right at all. That's true, of course. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about changes in the education and youth system that should take place as far as we are concerned. I'll start with the first one. How does the Minister view a right to education? For in the letter I also read a lot about compulsory education and the exceptions to it, but in our view children would be particularly entitled to a right to education. We are also working as D66 on an initiative law on learning rights. As far as youth services are concerned, I particularly have questions for the Secretary of State about the financial pressure on municipalities. What's the status of that? Can a solution be presented in the short term? Because in this case we saw that it was about the quality of care and about the finances. So it was also about the finances. We know that there are many youth care institutions and municipalities that have financial problems. What can we do for this group of young people and their parents in 2021 and 2022? Let's not wait until the formation is complete. I hope the Secretary of State will act quickly on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you to Mr Raemakers for his contribution on behalf of D66. I would ask Mr Peters, who will speak on behalf of the CDA Group, to come to the Chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The decentralisations would bring about a so-called transformation, a real change. 'Cause it didn't go very well in childhood care. We wanted to get away from long-term residential care in the woods, with a fence around it. That concern was too often inappropriate. We wanted to help children as close as possible, as close to a home as possible. Specialized help in a small-scale setting or family home, with an eye for school, for work, for association life and if possible also for family. So more customization, and more perspective. Mr. Chairman. The Hoenderloo Group closed. In itself, that is not necessarily a problem for me. Finally, we want to get rid of such large residential institutions. But the closure did present people with extremely urgent and serious problems. 'Cause now what? The Hoenderloo Group may not have been suitable for every child, but for some children it was. Mr. Chairman. Children who are difficult to place have one match: they are difficult to place. Furthermore, they differ greatly from each other. The question was and is: who takes the direction to find and organize a suitable place for these children? I read in the Secretary of State's letter that a most appropriate place has been found for all children. But most fitting is actually always. That depends on the offer. But does it fit well? Are these kids really helped? I'd like a clear response from the Secretary of State. Are we investigating how these children's problems have arisen? Are we doing that systematically? Are we investigating where they come from and how we can help them sooner and better? If not, can't such an investigation, which I'd like, join the investigation Ketenbreed Leren? This leads to a profit for the child, but we learn from the pattern, which is good for the whole youth aid. Mr. Chairman. We want help for children as much as possible at home. These are, for example, family homes or small-scale facilities. Is it true that the Youth Act does not include family homes and small-scale services, but only foster care? If so, why is that? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Then, of course, the question is whether these places are there. How many family homes and how many small-scale facilities are there now? Peer van der Helm describes in Social Questions that some 2,700 places should be added. Does the Secretary of State agree? If so, what is he going to do to make sure those places actually get there? Mr. Chairman. I've read municipal papers before. It often says, neatly in accordance with the vision of transformation, that residential beds are being cut down. Chapeau; in itself that is a good idea. But then what happens instead? That should be the family homes and small-scale facilities close to the young people's network, shouldn't it? Are those places there? Do the municipalities know the differences between residential beds in a three-environment facility and residential beds in a family home or small-scale facilities? Do they know that difference, or are they considered to be numbers? Are all the spots in sight at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Peters, with your well-being, I'm giving Mr. Kwint the opportunity to interrupt. It's your last interruption, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u45	I am painfully aware of that, Mr President. Mr. Peters says it's okay if an institution disappears, especially if it's such a big residential institution. In doing so, he echoed the words of Minister De Jonge, who said: 200 children in the woods is not really today anymore. But if we see, for example, that the EenVandaag survey shows that more than 50% of parents say that the place where their child is now and the situation in which their child is now, are worse than when they were at De Hoenderloo Groep, who are we to determine from The Hague that the places where their child was sitting are no longer of this time? I know you as someone who is very much involved in, for example, social work companies. That was precisely the same mistake, that was said in The Hague: that is no longer the time, those people in a workshop somewhere behind an industrial site; they must be in the middle of the neighbourhood. That failed fatally. How can you be sure that the same mistake is not made here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u46	Look, if I give the impression that I think I know that residential youth care is not appropriate for any child, I would point out that I have just said the opposite. It is certainly appropriate for a number of children. I have also said that it is not appropriate for a number of children and that we all have the vision that we want to help them as small-scale and as close to home as possible. We want more customization and more perspective for every child through specialized help in that setting, with an eye for school, for work, for daily spending, for association life and if possible also for family. I'm not from the school that I think I don't need any residential beds at all. There are people who think that, but I don't think that at all. For some it is appropriate, but only closing an institution does not necessarily have to be the problem. At least, as long as I have places like I just described. If those places aren't there, frankly, Mr. Kwint, it's a disaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u47	I propose that Mr Peters continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u48	My time has run through while answering, but okay. I've been reading a couple of municipal pieces lately. It often says, neatly in accordance with the vision of transformation, that residential beds are being cut down. Chapeau; that's a good idea. But then what happens instead? These should be family homes and small-scale facilities. Oh, I already told you. Excuse me. I hear the compulsion in youth aid is decreasing, but it is also increasing in the ggz. If we are talking about communicating vessels, I ask the Secretary of State. How can we prevent institutions from suddenly falling over in other places without any arrangement? Then how do we help congregations to take on the direction of the transformation we all want? Or does the Secretary of State intend to do so himself? Mr. Chairman. Children who are difficult to place have one big agreement, namely that they are difficult to place. Yeah, it's no different. Customization is needed, attention from the child to housing, to income, to education, to network. We in the Netherlands simply do not take sufficient care of this group of children. How do we help congregations to direct? How do we prevent accidents like the Hoenderloo Group from happening again? And how do we still help these most vulnerable children tailor-made? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u49	I thank Mr Peters for his input. Indeed, if you tell things twice, time goes on of course. Hand on my heart: Your time has not been changed. I thank Mr Peters, who spoke on behalf of the CDA Group. I now invite Mr Ceder, who will also make his maiden speech today. As has just been pointed out, this is always a very special moment. Sometimes there is also room for a personal note from MPs, so there is no room for interruptions, as is customary. I give the floor to Mr Ceder, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't remember everything exactly, but I remember opening my eyes one day as a little boy and waking up on my grandmother's bed. It was the first day of a period in my life that I lived with my grandmother, because in that period I could no longer live with my father and mother for several reasons. So I know what it feels like to have to stay in a different setting from a familiar environment. But where I was lucky enough to stay in my own environment, with family I knew, there are a lot of young people who didn't have or have that luck, and have ended up in a system that they can't get out of. In recent years, as a lawyer, I have been allowed to deal with youth law, with young people, parents, mothers, the decisions to dismiss young people, under-supervisory positions, youth institutions, moving and continuous post-trial hearing. Often this help is needed and welcome. I am also grateful that we have organisations and employees in the Netherlands who stand up for young people and can assist them. But I have also seen regularly that young people, although well-intentioned, are swallowed up by a system of waiting and waiting and removals and removals and a constant tension that they no longer come out of. I also had to deal with parents who suddenly have to travel up and down for hours to see their child after the child moved to a youth institution in another province, because there was simply no place around. I was also allowed to speak to young people. I've heard stories about suicidal thoughts and even sexual exploitation in the institutions where they are. Mr. Chairman. That's what gets me. It means that there are a lot of good things going, but there are also things that we need to pay attention to. I hope to be able to contribute to this. Because the danger is that we are increasingly going to see young people with complex challenges as an expensive cost, as annoying lockpoint where not too much money can go to, and that we are also going to see young people less and less as people who deserve all the support and attention. If I set myself one task in the coming years, it is that I hope that we in the Chamber will pay more attention to putting young people at the centre, that they may be seen for who they are: first, a valuable person, worth fighting for, no matter how complex the situation may be. I am therefore also fighting for a government in which we continue to keep an eye on those few, because it is also worth it. And although we live in a broken world, it is precisely the government that can and may be a guardian and shield for the weak and vulnerable. A government that seeks justice and peace does not linger in passive pleas. Doing justice also means making a full commitment to a decent life and caring for the other, just for the individual, for the young people who are asking for a little more attention, because they are worth it. This means that in the coming years there will be a number of important challenges, for example the structural shortage of funds in municipalities. I really think that the government is inclined to adapt with structural resources. But we also need to look closely at the perverse incentives that have arisen in the system, whereby young people with lighter complaints are helped more quickly and the more complex cases are often excluded. It can't be that we're giving up young people with more complex problems because they're really cynical. I'm saying it's too expensive. It will also ask us to let go of the hard cut of our system as soon as someone reaches the age of 18, because reality is more resilient than our policies seem to reflect. I would also like to take a serious look at the fact that we are world champions of removals. As a lawyer, I was able to see how far-reaching that can be for children, especially because you come into a system and a system that is very difficult to get out of. I hope to be able to deal with that together with this committee. Mr. Chairman. As for getting stuck in the system, the story of the youngsters of The Hoenderloo Group hurts me, because they are the living example of that. I've read reactions, for example from Robin, to which Lisa just referred. Last year, he said, "I don't sleep well. I've been stressed all day. I'm just gonna bust my ass out here and people need to know that." How many young people haven't felt like Robin and how many parents haven't felt abandoned in recent years? That seems to be quite a number now, because despite the Minister's announcement to the House of Representatives in August that all young people had found a suitable and sustainable follow-up place, some parents recently said that this is far from reality. We have had a letter from the cabinet last week saying that it is actually quite well arranged, except for three, but that also raises some questions for me. For it seems almost as if these messages, on the one hand, from the cabinet and, on the other hand, from the parents, who have spoken at One-Today, among other things, cannot be both true. This lack of clarity is not good. I wonder how these complaints from parents apparently did not come through the official line. It is so important that this should be clarified. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions about this. There's one thing I notice. There are many parents, but apparently they are not seen and not found by the cabinet. Does anyone who does not come out therefore feel familiar and safe to report their problems to the authority and the government? I have four questions for the Secretary of State. It seems that the Ministry of Information on the current situation is mainly based on the institution and inspection, but how are other perspectives taken into account? How does the Secretary of State see the concerns expressed by the parents who say that not everything is going as promised? In what ways are the experiences of parents and young people involved in decision-making and monitoring alongside the complaints of the inspection? In individual cases, it is possible to e-mail to the Ministry, but are there also structural forms of monitoring outside the institution possible to ensure this? Can you reflect on the distribution of responsibilities between municipalities, institutions and the Ministry? It seems that parties to this problem point to each other, both for the problem analysis and for responsibility and for the solution. How can we stop this from happening again? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I note that sometimes there are no powers or responsibilities to deal with really complex cases. However, it seems to me that there is something possible when the Ministry receives signals and goes straight after them. If the Ministry picked up a complex case, I think there's a lot to be done. I would therefore also like to call for a structural form of perseverance, directed by the Ministry for the extremely complex cases. How does the Secretary of State look at this and is he willing to investigate what it takes to achieve this? Mr. Chairman. I note that the challenges in this dossier do not stand alone, but arise from a rigged system that has become complicated and has complex problems. They are not resolved today or tomorrow, but it starts with a government and a Chamber saying: to here and no further. I hope that today we all conclude that that point has been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u51	I would like to thank Mr Ceder, who has made his contribution on behalf of the Christian Union. I would also like to congratulate him on his maiden speech. I would like to give your fellow chamber members an opportunity to congratulate you. If you stand up for this, your colleagues will come to you coronaproof to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u52	This is the second maiden speech. Mr Ceder is now sitting in the Chamber smiling and relieved, despite the heavy subject that is being discussed today. I suggest we continue the meeting. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, who will speak on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. You said it wasn't a maiden speech in my case, and that's right. I would like to congratulate and congratulate colleagues Ceder and De Neef, who gave his speech before, on their beautiful maiden speech. This brought out both passion for the subject that we are talking about today, people in the tights as well as vision. It was thought: how can we get ahead and the problems happen? Well, it's sometimes complained that a lot of experience disappears from the Chamber, but at the same time I found it very nice and encouraging to hear what social experience these two new MPs take. There is no doubt that this will benefit us greatly from each other. Congratulations again. Mr. Chairman. Then to today's topic. Actually, the motto is not a child between shore and ship. I thought: what would Reverend Heldring, who stood at the cradle of that facility in the middle of the nineteenth century, have agreed with that! Because that was exactly why this home there, in the woods of Hoenderloo, was founded for the young people who couldn't actually live at home. And how much was that also what was widely expressed in the debates in the Chamber last year when it was closed in the news. That's what we don't want. No child should fall between shore and ship! It seemed so good that the institution also agreed. She also said: we take responsibility; no child between shore and ship. In the Chamber debate on behalf of the cabinet, the Minister said that we are not going to let that happen; we are not going to let it happen; we are not going to let it happen; we are not going to let it happen. I saw the reportage of EenVandaag, and then I recognize the emotion that Mrs.Kuiks expressed in that broadcast very well. Then you're actually angry and sad. Then you think, "What did we all talk about? That these kinds of stories would come forward, isn't that what we didn't want?" And here we are again. Then we have another debate on it. It didn't come as a thunderbolt in the clear sky, because we actually saw it coming. We discussed it and discussed it, and everyone agreed: no child between shore and ship. Then why the stories of those parents, of those young people? Mr. Chairman. That is what bothers me and, I think, many others. It's good to say that today. That painful history, that book that is still not closed: you want to unravel what went wrong and what lessons we can draw from it for caring for vulnerable young people. Of course, first of all, the question is how this is resolved here, but that also applies more widely. That is precisely the responsibility of the House of Representatives. We are not the supervisory board of one institution. It is about how we can better manage the system of youth protection and youth care. What hits me, then, is the difference in perception. You'll get that back when you talk to parents yourself. They actually say, "It's just a disaster. We were so grateful that we found a place there. The uncertainty and the misery that you then encounter and the stress that it all gives to get everything back together in the domain of living and education and treatment. Yeah, that just didn't work out." That is a different picture than the one we get from the letter from the rulers. That is why, in fact, most of the work has been successful, but if there are any problems, let us know, because then we will tackle them as well. How come these are still such different worlds? That is actually the question that concerns me in this debate. I would also like to hear the reflection of the rulers. This is also interesting for other topics, first and foremost now, but also wider. Why is in their view that image of those parents and young people so much different from the administrative reflection we encounter in the letter? And then I am also a little concerned: are we, if we are not careful, not soon in such a debate dealing with the definitions 'walk and ship', to see if it is true that no one has landed between shore and ship? And what exactly are we getting on with? Because I think we are talking about the same thing, namely that we want the young people for whom it was so difficult to find that place in that institution to at least find a similar alternative. That was certainly not possible in the experience of a lot of parents. And then everyone could have done their stinking best, but that doesn't take away this reality. Finally, my question is: what is the reflection of the cabinet on this and what do we learn from it, how do we proceed, how do we prevent this from happening again? And how is it also done to take account of what the Children's Ombudsman says, that those interests of children should be taken into account in decision-making very early on, and not as a closing point of "oh yes, that still needs to be settled"? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u54	I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij, who has made his contribution on behalf of the SGP Group. I give the floor to Mrs Simons, who will make her contribution on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. When I spoke to experienced experts and aid workers in preparation for this debate, I received a very strong response: "That we still have to seriously debate this... How many more cries have to follow to wake up politics in The Hague?', I heard. And that's the feeling I'm standing here with. We can sink back into infinite conversations that are not about the real cause of the problems, but I want to be careful of that. Because the reason for this debate is the consequences of the closure of Hoenderloo, but that closure is a symptom of a failing system with perverse financial incentives and deficits, competitors and underlying opposing interests. Professionals can no longer provide help in the right way, and the youth is the child of the account. One expert in experience, Jason Bhugwandas, we all know him well. He said: "The Hoenderloo Group didn't close because of the abuses, but the finances turned the institution upside down. I hope that we will stop with closed youth care, because we understand how bad it is for children, and because we have better alternatives. But youth care is financially negligible, and then hope that the wrong institutions fall down, that is not the right approach." I would like to ask the directors whether they recognize our suspicion that no substantive considerations are being made, but that financial considerations were and still are decisive, and whether they also believe that the interests of children, parents and their relationship with the aid workers should always be guiding. Too many organizations have fallen over the past few years. We must learn from this so that it never goes so wrong again. This is a recurring problem: major changes are announced and implemented without covering the additional costs or investing in appropriate new alternatives, and in particular without considering the impact on children. Unfortunately, this way of doing things is indicative of what goes wrong in youth care. It has to be and it can be different. This requires an alternative plan for the whole of youth care. And the good news is that we don't have to think of that here in the Lower House, but we can leave that to the people with knowledge and experience. The think tank Youth jump has developed wide-ranging solutions from below. The only thing the Chamber has to do, and all this government has to do, is embrace it and implement it. That is why I would like to ask Mr Blokhuis: is he prepared to take this plan seriously, and if so, how is he going to start implementing it? Let the closure of De Hoenderloo Group be a reason to take action for radical improvements for the whole of youth care. Because everyone in the sector knows that there is a state of emergency, and everyone following the news knows by now that we need to talk about a crisis in youth care. And are we going to wait for the next debate in response to an institution that is falling apart, and are we going to continue to fight symptoms, or can the children and parents in the youth care sector trust that politics in The Hague has been sufficiently awakened this time and are we going to work on real system change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u56	I would like to thank Mrs Simons, who spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I would now like to ask Mrs Gündoğan, who will speak on behalf of the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. In preparation for this debate, I spoke with Theo Doreleyers. Theo is a former professor of child and youth psychiatry, someone who knows the profession of youth care through and through. Theo told me that in the decades that he's done this job, he's lost count of how many times the youth laws have changed. His heart cry is: what is going on that every legal renewal fails? Theo also told me that, when he started his profession, he could conduct ten to twelve consultations on one day. Currently, the average is four to five consultations a day. You will be aware that less than half of what could ever be done to consults is now being conducted. Have the carers slowed down? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the administrative burden has been completely out of proportion to what the health care provider would like to do most of the time, namely to provide care? The Hoenderloo Group is of course not an incident. This is a pattern. We have known the problem of deficits in youth care for years. Under the heading of decentralisation, hidden savings were made in youth care. These have been at the expense of young people and at the expense of care. Municipalities were saddled with a task most of them felt completely robbed by. This pattern will repeat over and over again as long as the looming errors in the youth care system remain unaffected. Therefore, the following question: does the Secretary of State acknowledge these problems? What's he gonna do to break this pattern? I would like to use the Hoenderloo debacle to launch an essential debate on youth care. Firstly, there must be a reduction in waiting times. I can assume that everyone agrees on this and that this does not need a debate. Secondly, professionals need to carry out less administrative tasks so that they can provide more care. It is not normal for professionals to have to complete an Excelsheet every 12 minutes of treatment. In addressing the second point, the first point will also be partly resolved. Thirdly, there should be more highly qualified diagnostics available to children with the most complex problems at a young age. At that age, the biggest problems are often better to deal with than later, but only if there is a youth care and a youth ggz that can handle them. Fourthly, we now have many new forms of treatment available to young children and young people. In fact, many institutions have them at home, but there is often a lack of qualified practitioners, because you need a lot of experience to apply those methods properly. What about our training for professionals? Fifthly, there would be less need to resort to the emergency grip of an out-of-home placement if families dealing with the most difficult children could get more intensive care at home, or if more good foster homes would become available. There's a huge shortage of foster homes. Who's going to study that to find creative solutions to that shortage? Sixthly, why should a young child or a younger child still have to be placed out of the house and be too difficult for a foster home to be taken back to such a large, old-fashioned institution somewhere far from home? Instead, let us organise small-scale care in the region, where parents can easily come and where education is catered from neighbouring schools. Seventh, small-scale units also need to be preferred under the principle of "too big to fail." If something doesn't fall over, it's too big, not just with banks, also with care. Nothing can be so big that it can fall over, where the collateral damage is unprecedented. I would like a response from the Secretary of State on these seven points. Mr President, I will conclude. As a member of Volt, I propose that, now that the incidents, the waiting lists and the deficits in youth care are unsustainable, we do not once again revolutionize the system in less than half a century. Let us put our trust in the professionals and the care itself, in parents and in young people. For knowledge and expertise in youth care is well present in our country, but let us also look beyond the borders, where youth care is better organised. Because the time of the prize but not knowing the value must now really become history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u58	I thank Mrs Gündoğan, who spoke on behalf of the Volt Group. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik, who will speak on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. In this country you should have some trouble with some vowels and consonants in the right order and need dyslexia care than a number of vowels and consonants are behind your name and still have a disorder, or anorexia, or autism. Because the moment things get complicated, the care in this country is simply inadequate. The Secretary of State recognizes that, too. It is not for nothing that he is trying to see if regional agreements can be made. But they still haven't been realized. Places are dropping. There aren't enough places. The Hoenderloo Group and the way in which that has been done is a sad example of this. I'm not mad. I'm genuinely angry. Because in March 2020 we had the talk with Minister De Jonge to warn him that it would be too soon and that more time was needed. This was not based on our experiences, but on experiences of parents, young people themselves and employees. Our request was actually very simple: take three or six months, at least take a little more time to find a suitable place for these children. That didn't happen. It was said that that was not necessary; in August everything would be complete. But it wasn't. Living was successful, but education was not arranged. We are now a year ahead and it is still not settled, despite the cheerful letter from the cabinet. Living is in most cases arranged, or at a care place, or with parents, or at a shelter again. But education is not yet regulated in all cases. Therapy is also not regulated in all cases or started late. In some cases, it took months for it to come off. Some kids have suffered extra trauma. A kid's got a record. One girl who was allowed to act in campaign material from Hugo de Jonge is now in closed youth care. These are the effects of a decision of closure. I'm not gonna accept that. I cannot accept that we allow this with open eyes and then call hallelujah in a letter to say that everything went well. That's a blow to the face of all those employees. That's a blow to the face of all those parents. That is a blow to the face of the young people who are now sitting with the fried pears. Parents have started working less again, because the stress and care becomes too great. The social costs and problems of families are invisible. That's gotta be different. What do I expect from this debate? It would be very nice if it were simply recognised that not everything went well. I think that's step one. Then the second step. Parents no longer expect us to solve this for these children and for these parents. But they do want it to be regulated differently and better for children in the future. This can only be done if we really make a fundamental change now. This means more appropriate, specialised care for this group of children with more direction. Nationally controlled or otherwise funded if necessary: how do I not care? But it's clear that it needs to be taken care of. Only then is the question: does the cabinet still have power? 'Cause it's already a missionary. Is there going to be extra money or budget for child care? No. Major system changes are unlikely to occur either. But I'm not going to settle for that. That's why I'm looking specifically at Secretary of State Blokhuis. What can and will he do for the children of the future? After all, we both recognise that the way it is organized now is simply not going well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u60	I would like to thank Mrs Kuik for her contribution on behalf of the PvdA Group. I understand from the leaders that there is a need for a twenty-minute suspension so that all questions can be answered. I'd like to suggest that we get back together at about 11:51.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u61	After the first term of the Chamber, Secretary of State Blokhuis van VWS, with the youth care portfolio, will start answering the questions. Afterwards, Minister Slob will speak for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. I give the floor to Mr Blokhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the closure of The Hoenderloo Group. This is yet another debate in Parliament on this important issue. For me, it is the first time I have spoken explicitly about this, but it is no less impressive for me. We are talking in particular about young people and families. That is what this is all about. It is not so much about what we find here as about vulnerable families. I hope that we will take each other one step further in good solutions. I'd like to compliment and congratulate the MPs De Neef and Ceder on their maiden speech. That was promising. They're both experience experts, too, though they're both from a different angle. But they were fine speeches. I hope I can answer their questions seriously as well. Mr. Chairman. In my answer I have a few blocks. I'm doing a general intro, pretty short. Then I have four themes. The first substantive block is: the closure of De Hoenderloo Groep and what preceded it. The second block is: the transfer of care. The third block is: the system, responsibilities and lessons from casuism. The fourth block is: other questions. I will, of course, also try to answer the questions of the Members of Parliament in the separate blocks that have just been drawn up. I'm starting in general, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the most vulnerable young people in our society, young people who have a complex care question and can no longer live at home for a time. I also hear several spokesmen who know from knowledge and skills how profound that is. I think that everyone in this Chamber also realizes how far-reaching that is. Mr Ceder even speaks from his own experience. Young people benefit from stability and appropriate support and care. This applies to all young people, but certainly to these young people. That is why I can very well imagine that it was very profound for these young people and their parents when De Hoenderloo Group announced the decision to close the gates. This was very far-reaching, because these young people often already have a long way to go, with often different moves to different health care institutions: a whole past. Suddenly they were confronted with situations and choices they had not asked for. The fact that many young people and their parents have experienced the closure negative is therefore certainly understandable. No one here will deny that. I've talked to several parents in the last few days. The stories I've heard in those conversations grab me at the throat: children who are unhappy, deeply unhappy, and do not get the care and support they deserve, and parents who are tired, sometimes don't know, don't feel safe, et cetera. I heard Mr Raemakers say that his heart breaks from those stories. That goes, I think, for all of us here, if you hear those stories. I therefore share what several Members have said today: it really did not go well. It would be unfair and disrespectful to the parents and children to say: it is beautiful, it is well arranged. I would also like to say this to Mrs Kuik, at the beginning of my term, that it did not go well. It speaks of a letter of welcome. I regret that the letter has been read in this way, because it is absolutely not meant to be. Minister Slob and I have, in all conscience, answered the questions that exist in the Chamber, in response to signals and in response to the broadcast of EenVandaag. We've done it to the best of our consciences. If, above the letter, the hunch of a happiness has lingered, then we have done something wrong, then we have written it down wrong. I hope to indicate in my first term how I mean it. I hope that Mrs Kuik and others will be able to draw the conclusion that that is indeed not far from what I write in the letter, but perhaps we will go a step further with each other today. Mr. Chairman. No misunderstanding: Pluryn also acknowledges that it is not a success story. The municipalities and Pluryn want to learn from how things went. They have asked an external party to evaluate this whole process. So that's an external evaluation. Pluryn himself is also evaluating. That is the butcher who approves his own meat, MPs will rightly say. It is good that Pluryn looks critically at himself, but there will also be an external evaluation. It has been asked to draw lessons for the whole sector. That is also an answer to the questions of several Members of Parliament who asked: what lessons do we draw from this and how do we deal with this matter in future, with such situations? On the basis of the evaluation that will take place, we will draw conclusions about this. Mr. Chairman. The Hoenderloo Group had two locations, Hoenderloo itself and the Kop van Deelen. Everyone knows that. The treatment was aimed at the resumption of normal life: at home, so in one's own family, towards independence, so going to live in one's own place, a follow-up treatment or a family replacement setting. In the run-up to closure, every effort has been made to provide a sustainable and appropriate follow-up to the 40 young people who had not finished their treatment at the time of closure. Several Members rightly ask: what is a suitable place? Because that's what the cabinet writes: a suitable place. By "an appropriate place" we mean "in this way" we also talk about this under the Youth Act "a place which, in the professional opinion of the aid workers, in this case Pluryn, and the municipality, as the client, fits well with the support demand of young people. Among other things, they looked at the setting, the team and the combination with other young people. They've matched that with young people and parents as much as possible. In the last letter to the Chamber, which is from the end of last week; no, from Monday, therefore, we wrote that at the time the Hoenderloo Group finally closed the gates, a suitable and sustainable place had been found for each of the young people, according to the definition I just gave. That, of course, has got a tail; I'm about to go into that. Education was, by the way, completely regulated later; at least for every young person there was an arrangement at the time. That is what Mr Slob is talking about, of course. The state of affairs in August was that there seemed to be an appropriate, sustainable place for all young people in care. The disappointment was, of course, great when reports popped up that it would not have worked for everyone. We know, of course, from the three parents who have said: the offer that Pluryn makes to us is really not appropriate for our youngster; we are going our own way in it, with traps and standing up. But apart from those three situations, I didn't get any signals at the time that it was different. So it was also a disappointment for us to hear that it would not be good for more young people. I'll go into that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. This was my general introduction. I now turn to the closure of De Hoenderloo Groep and what preceded it, because it is good to briefly outline the context. On 2 December 2019, Pluryn said: we will close The Hoenderloo Group. That was announced. The formal decision was taken on 3 March last year. As a result, Pluryn mentioned, among other things, the continuing concern about the quality of the assistance. I say this also in response to those who asked whether it was about the quality of care. That was indeed the case. That's what Pluryn called himself. That was not something Pluryn himself had invented, which was inspired by the critical reports of the IGJ. So Mr Raemakers hit the nail on the head there. That's what the IGJ did say. It was also about the quality of The Hoenderloo Group. That was the first reason. The second reason was the structuralally poor financial results of De Hoenderloo Groep. We have seen that they have become very dominant in the discussion. Then it was about the money. Thirdly, there was the desire to organise complex care more family-oriented and in the region. That is a wish that is widely shared. The Chamber has also tabled motions on this matter. Take care to the region, close to the family. Sometimes not too close; that calls for customization. But that is in line with the wishes of the Chamber and that is what The Hoenderloo Group and Pluryn wanted to join. That happened with falling and getting up; let that be the conclusion. The closure of the care location led to the closure of Hoenderloo College, i.e. the educational leg. Of course, these reports made the young people and their parents involved very concerned. The continuity of care is extremely important for such a vulnerable group. You should not carry on carrying children; that is a starting point that we all celebrate here. Continuity of care is therefore a tough condition for closure. This applies to any change in aid, but especially when it comes to the closure of a facility to accommodate vulnerable young people, this must be the starting point. There's been a lot of people watching it. The Health and Youth Inspectorate has been very critical, the Education Inspectorate has taken a critical look. I also mention the Ministry of OCW, the Youth Authority and the Ministry of VWS. They have always, each from their own responsibility, looked critically at this. That is why my predecessor Hugo de Jonge, whose name was also mentioned several times in the first term of the Chamber, also promised you that no child would fall between shore and ship. At the time of the closure of The Hoenderloo Group the picture was for us: that is not the issue now, with the exception of the three children I mentioned, where it is still very complicated to find an appropriate offer for them, but where it is all hands on deck to organize it with each other. At the time of closure, we were able to draw the conclusion: there is an appropriate and sustainable solution. In August 2020 Minister De Jonge informed you about this. Mr Kwint asked: how are we going to ensure that inspections do not intervene only when things have got out of hand? Since the planned closure of De Hoenderloo Groep, the IGJ has followed the process very closely. The IGJ made six visits to De Hoenderloo Groep prior to the closure. I cannot stress enough that that is an exceptional amount, that the IGJ has looked very carefully at it. In doing so, she had the care continuity in mind. The care transfer has to be good. The inspection spoke to employees during those visits. She spoke to aid workers, of course, but she also spoke to parents and young people. Following the closure of the sites, the inspection carried out progress visits to all new groups created by Pluryn to follow 27 young people from De Hoenderloo Group who continued to be helped under the flag of Pluryn. Of these six new groups divided into four locations of Pluryn, the inspection concluded that five groups were able to provide appropriate assistance to young people. She said of a location in Almere: that is not adequate; there must be intervention. There has been an improvement plan for this and the inspection now says that it is true. I answer this question in response to a question from Mr Kwint. I believe that the inspection has really taken everything out of the closet to see as carefully as possible how things have gone and has been right on top of it in the announcement of closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u63	I see that there is an interruption on this point by Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u64	That was about the first block. I'm beginning to notice a defensive attitude to myself. What I object to is that a place of residence is being treated as adequate care, because it is not. It's about care and education, it's about care and therapy. There are children who have just started psychological treatments again in the last month. This is not an adequate and sustainable transfer of care. Then you looked, "Do we have a bed somewhere? And figure it out for the rest." So I object to the statement that everything, except three children, was well arranged, because it was not and we know it now. But we knew that in August 2020. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u65	With the last sentence, "we knew that in August 2020 too," Mrs. Kuik makes things equally complicated. At that time, as a government, as a system administrator, we relied on the professional judgment of aid workers and of municipalities or children in a suitable place. That is why the closure of the Hoenderloo Group was postponed for a week, and that is the signal we received. I say to the honour and conscience that at that time, Minister De Jonge was still in charge of receiving no signals from parents: we are not happy, we are not satisfied. Except for the three, and let's do those people justice too, those are people fighting for the welfare of their children, who said: Pluryn really didn't make us an appropriate offer. Both the inspection and the aid workers said: this is a suitable place. Of course, I agree with Mrs. Chicken that a roof over your head is not an appropriate place. That's a first need; you're not gonna give outside of care. That's a first need, but it's just a first condition. I will come back later, if you will, Mr President, to the question: since when do you see that perhaps more young people have not come to the right place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u66	That's just not true. For in the debates that we had then, among other things, Mr Kwint mentioned that education was not regulated. Then Mrs Westerveld said: "Oh, what is now found here is not a sustainable place. Then we brought forward the stories of parents. So it's simply not true that the signals weren't known then, in August. We can read the Acts on it if we have to. My memory lets me down from time to time, it will be old age, but we can check with the Acts that exactly these kinds of points have been put forward. It's just not true! If we continue to look like this, not only the children of the past, but also the children of the future have a problem because somewhere from a tower in The Hague, from the department that deals with youth care, the question "do they have a bed?" a check mark is set, and with that it is done, while of course it is a total package. These are children with a multi-problem, children who now have a criminal record, who are now in closed care care, who are now with a nursing mother because they have nowhere else to go by God's grace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u67	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u68	So just acknowledge that what the Secretary of State says here isn't true. I have the Acts to prove it's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. As far as education is concerned, I have just indicated, as Mr Slob can explain as no other, that it was indeed not completed in August, but that I thought it was settled in November. You can also find some of that, but it will be discussed in the debate. With regard to the first question: I will go to the next block to answer Mrs Kuik's question: how do you get a picture of young people sitting in a suitable place? We'll go into that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u70	I propose, as the Secretary of State has indicated several blocks, that we try as much as possible to address certain questions there. Before proceeding, Secretary of State, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u71	That is unfortunate, because my question is about the block closure. After that the subject is indeed on the agenda: how are we going to find a suitable place, given that the institution ceases to exist? One step ahead is: is closure indeed a good decision, given what that means for the development perspective of the children sitting there? From the Children's Ombudsman's report, I also get that he says: in fact, that did not happen sufficiently. That's why I'm asking how the Secretary of State reflects on that. Was the approach, also administratively, not too fast: that closure is a fact, let's see how we find the best solution for these children? Instead of: do we realize how complex this problem is for these children, that there is so difficult to find another place, and in that light is that closure justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u72	It's a fair question. I have tried to indicate on what grounds Pluryn thought he should close the Hoenderloo Group. There was a financial reason, but that was one of three. Another reason was that the inspection had found that the quality of care was not in order. I also spoke to parents and asked them: were you satisfied with the care? "Well, no, not at all." So there was something to improve. It is logical that Mr Van der Staaij should ask: shouldn't you have invested in that and made sure that they could stay in that place? That is where the question comes from: does the government within the system as we have organised have the possibility to ban such a step from a provider? I believe that we, as a system responsible, are responsible for ensuring continuity of care. That is what is being done. That question has been tested. In addition to this, the substantive argument is that the step which Mr Peters made very clearly in his term of office was taken. In fact, you can be unhappy with the fact that children are taken out of their familiar environment, no matter how good or bad the care was. Some of the young people were treated really well and others were treated less well. That's what the IGJ put his finger on. The question is: if you then take the step towards smaller-scale care in the region, closer to the parents, isn't that something that the House of Representatives and the government, the VWS Ministry, would want? In my opinion, the answer to that question is affirmative, knowing that your children are hurting if you take them out of the familiar environment, but with the aim of moving to a smaller-scale facility, which is better suited to the wishes of the Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u73	I can follow that story, but very practically I still miss the perspective. All this policy and all these good principles must lead to that, mustn't they? If there are problems with care, namely that it is not at a high level, then it means something to do with this very complex, most difficult problem. But it must all be meant to make sure that these young people get along in the end? The question is: is that sufficiently weighted at the level of decision-making on closure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u74	With the knowledge of today, which I now have, you can say: certainly not all young people have progressed. Especially for all young people, relocation, such as any change, in view of their problems and the problems they face, is extremely painful, even if it brings about an improvement. The question of whether you should block it as a government and can block it on the basis of the Youth Act is, as far as I am concerned, of a different order. If you ask the question within this group, "could it not be an improvement if young people go to a smaller facility?', I think it will be answered in the affirmative. In my next block, I will come back to how we see that this has indeed happened per individual young person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u75	Finally, on this point. I do not immediately call for all kinds of legislative changes, so that a Secretary of State or a Minister is given more powers at the level of a specific institution. I would like to discuss the question from the system responsibility: if you see that things like this can go wrong, what can help to make decision-making better? Last year there was a tightening up of the Good Governance Framework, with the emphasis being placed not only on the institutional importance, but also on the social interest. That is one example, but I would like to hear more about what is being learned and what can be done better, regardless of what politics must be able to do, in the interests of good youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u76	I think we should learn something from this awfully annoying history, which has hurt a lot of parents and children and hurts to this day. Otherwise, they've suffered that pain twice for nothing. Therefore, under the leadership of the municipality of Utrecht, other municipalities together with Pluryn and an external research agency will explore the lessons to be learned from this. This must also translate into: how do you deal with this type of change in the future? We've already taken other steps. The Youth Authority gets a heavier voice in the chapter and goes with an earlywarning system to look at questions like "when does it threaten to go wrong?', "How are we going to ensure a good continuity of care at a very early stage, preferably in the place itself?" And "If this is not possible, how are we going to organise a smooth transition that will hurt young people as little as possible?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u77	Before the Secretary of State continues, understand that there are three more interruptions in the block called Hoenderloo. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u78	On the very last day before this Chamber went into recess last summer, I had a discussion with the predecessor of this Secretary of State, Minister De Jonge. We already saw that there was not yet a suitable place for young people, that the Chamber would then go with recess and that we would come back two months later after the recess and nothing would have happened. We were then able to force through a chamber motion, which we voted on in the middle of the night, that there would be a biweekly progress letter. That, by the way, did not happen. We didn't get that biweekly letter at the time, but the Chamber did, because we knew then that there was no suitable place for a lot of young people. Then I wonder how the Secretary of State can now say that all the signals that came in... I do believe he responds here to his honour and conscience, but how can there be such different images at the Ministry than what comes into our Chamber? We heard from parents, but also from employees that there was no suitable place for those children. How is it that these images are so different?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u79	Minister De Jonge informed the Chamber also around the entire closure at the moment suprème, say, whether these young people were indeed in appropriate and sustainable care. The Chamber has been informed of that. If you look at Mrs Westerveld's motion, cum suis, I think, because there were more signatories and that motion has been broadly supported, then I think that Minister De Jonge, who, in all conscience, has also dealt adequately with it, namely by informing the Chamber a few times before the closure took place. The latest state of affairs at that time was: we get information from the providers and from the municipalities. Those are the main responsibilities in the Youth Act. They give us the signal that for the majority of these young people a suitable and sustainable place has been arranged. "Suitable" does not mean that it is perfect care, but it is as appropriate as possible, as much as possible, in line with the care needs of the young person, with the available assistance we have in the Netherlands. In my view, Minister De Jonge has adequately informed the Chamber about this. Where there is a difference between the signals, I think a separate study is required, because Minister Slob and I have indicated in the letter: apart from the IGJ, an important source of course, and the municipalities and the providers, we do not get any signals as to how things are going. That is also what we need to talk about in this debate: where this is rubbing, where it is wrong and how we can get a better look at it in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u80	Whether this motion was properly implemented then, our opinions differ, but I do not think there is much point in having a well-known debate here on what the predecessor of this Secretary of State should have done at the time. Let's talk about the signals. Is it not simply the case that the Secretary of State and the Minister have not been properly informed about this, at least not by the Pluryn administration, and that perhaps the inspection has missed signals somewhere? I really do not want to trivialize the work of the inspection, but I think there are a few things in the system that are really not well arranged if the stories we hear from parents and aid workers are so different from the stories that come to the ministry. In any case, I am curious whether the Secretary of State can comment on how he and the Minister were informed by the Board of Directors of Pluryn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u81	In August, we were informed by Pluryn and the municipalities that the young people ended up in an appropriate, sustainable place, with the exception of the aforementioned three. Education had to be organized for some of the young people at that time. We were informed about this by Pluryn. I find it difficult to judge what Mrs Westerveld is asking me, namely whether Pluryn has misinformed us of this. I'm having a hard time judging that. The fact is that the IGJ is a very important independent source for us. That really is of a different order than an institution itself. I see Mrs Westerveld nodding; she agrees. But I do think she puts the finger at the sore spot, namely: does the IGJ get all the signals? We also sometimes meet in debates about the ggz for adults and of course not all individual complaints come to the IGJ. Maybe there's a looming error in the system, that there's no right address where those parents can go. At least those addresses are there, but they're not found. I am eager to begin my third block, because I also indicate with what system we have arranged for parents to submit their complaints, their wishes and questions. There's a system for that, but apparently, and that's very painful, parents don't feel safe enough or are they so tired that they don't use that system for that, or we've given too little publicity to it. But I'm not lying when I say this was the IGJ's signal; we're getting signals from the municipalities and from the provider, not from parents. We wrote that down in the letter. That could piss the Chamber off and say, "What do you make of it?" We have written down what we know in all conscience; I cannot say that often enough. But I would like to point out in the third block that I would like to go a step further in order to find out more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u82	I have a feeling that a lot of people are looking forward to the third block, but before we do, there is still a question from Mr Kwint about the closure of The Hoenderloo Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u83	Yes, because I believe there has been an act of honour and conscience. I note, however, that the talking points and the data provided by Pluryn are almost entirely taken over in the letter of inquiry. I really don't understand... We believe that Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kuik were standing at a demonstration against the closure of Hoenderloo College. We heard exactly those stories there. You couldn't even avoid them. Everyone, whether they were parents, teachers or caregivers, groomed me and told me: there is no appropriate place, the therapy is not yet arranged, it is nothing more than a roof over your head, and education is also too complicated. I got an e-mail this morning from a health care professional who wrote: we just hired a therapist. That's how long it's gonna take for it to start. Something very, very, very fundamentally goes wrong in this system if you stumble over the reports if you just walk on a lawn near Hoenderloo College, and if nothing comes in either the inspection or the Secretary of State from the inspection. You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u84	In my view, Mr Kwint is saying with a little more emphasis what Mrs Westerveld is saying, namely that there is a discrepancy between them. I'm not gonna deny it either. Apparently, there are parents who are not satisfied, whose signals do not reach us. I'm definitely not gonna blame those parents for that. I note with Mr Kwint that something is not being communicated somewhere that is extremely relevant to us. But again, I am eager to say something about that in my next block, because I think we should act more actively on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u85	That's what we're gonna do. I see Mr Peters for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u86	First on the issue of appropriate care. My daughter used to have this big wooden puzzle that had cubes of different shapes in it. I saw her once knocking a round shape into a square hole. Eventually, she said, "Daddy, fit." I've never heard the block complain that it didn't fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u87	That reminds me of an act by Ronald Goedemondt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u88	This is just for your third, or second, cube. I actually had a question about another thing. That is the vision that The Hoenderloo Group closed for three reasons, one of which was that we wanted a transformation towards more small-scale, fitting and so on. I can support that, and I think almost everyone, if it fits. My simple question is: did you, as a system administrator, know if those places were there at all, so was it possible? Whether it would work is another thing. But did you know if those places were there at all? I read that Lector Peer van der Helm says: there are still 2,700 places too few. If he knew that, didn't we all know that? Maybe it wasn't such a good idea after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u89	I will deal with the question about the 2,700 places that Mr Peters put in his first term, because that is about places in a family setting, so in a family home or in foster care. In any case, it is not necessarily a matter of residential care, which we are mainly talking about here. The Hoenderloo Group and Pluryn have looked: where should we give these children a place? That can be in your own family setting, that can be in a foster home, that can be in a family home or otherwise, or residential. At that time I did not experience this actively as an involved ruler, but I understood that municipalities, as responsible for giving the assignment and also as responsible for the welfare of children, and providers, were involved not only in Pluryn, but also in other providers who took care of these children together: we have the puzzle around. It may be that a round block has been hammered through a triangle. It is difficult for me to judge that now, but that is why I think it is appropriate to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u90	I was more concerned with the comment here: we all wanted a transformation, a real change towards small-scale and as close to home as possible. I can see that there are a lot of municipal policy pieces in there. I also see a movement in that direction. I have asked some technical questions about it, for example whether it does not come off here and on the ggz again. But that movement we all want must be possible, otherwise we will be talking nonsense. So I just wish there was a real image. How many of these places are there? If we want that transformation, can we? Or, if those places aren't here right now, let someone take the lead. And then let's take it easy and not turn too hard, because otherwise there will be accidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u91	I think the wish expressed by Mr Peters here is quite right. And you wonder why we have to talk about that in April 2021, when such things happened years ago and we saw that coming. In my view, this is one of the main reasons for the cabinet to submit the bill on better access to youth care. That bill is now before the Council of State and will be coming to the Chamber shortly. Or has the bill gone to the Chamber yet? I don't know exactly. I see Mr Peters coming forward again. It says, for example, that we expect regions to be meant not as individual municipalities, but as regions which have a good picture of demand and supply. They need to get together. Mr Peters and I will find each other very quickly in the observation that this is not the case now. That is precisely why we want these regions to work on this. I know that a number of municipalities are not happy that we want to organise this regionally, but this debate and the wretched history of children from De Hoenderloo Group prove that it is urgently needed. Regions must have that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u92	I thank the Secretary of State for now. Mrs. Maeijer has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u93	I am new to this dossier, but I am actually sitting here listening with increasing amazement to what the Secretary of State is saying here. Several times, I think, by almost everyone, a promise has been made that no child would fall between shore and ship. That's a tough promise, a very hard promise. That promise was made by both Pluryn and this cabinet. We can then have a discussion here about signals that may or may not come in, but this is a firm promise. Doesn't the Secretary of State think that this would involve a more active attitude? Does he not think that he should have actively ensured that that promise is also honoured? Now he's just been waiting for signals or e-mails to come to him. Such a promise simply involves an active attitude, in which it is determined whether this is actually the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u94	I'll look back and see what happened in August. Municipalities and providers involved said: we have a place for all young people. With the knowledge of today, we can find something of that right now. In fact, it was said at the time that we have a suitable and sustainable place for all young people. Education was arranged for the whole group a little later. That information was given to us as system leaders. That was also not accompanied by a form of protest from parents. We did not hear parents say: municipalities and providers do, but it is not at all. We then looked at that signal from municipalities, suppliers and the inspection. The inspection has also followed very closely the situation with regard to the placement of young people. This is an independent inspection. The question that arises in this debate is: is that indeed enough? Can this be enough, even in the case of such a large-scale operation involving so many vulnerable young people? You have to face the question of whether in such a situation you can suffice with the way things went in August. Or should you say, with the wisdom of today, that it is indeed necessary to link a more active attitude to that? That's what I want to talk to you about. This is the fourth time I have announced this, but I understand Mrs Maeijer's question very well. She is right to ask that question. I wasn't driving this file myself in August. With the wisdom that we now have, I can say that I think that a more active attitude applies, including to parents. You have to ask parents if they're happy with the offer, and they're happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u95	It just keeps buzzing me that apparently this hasn't just been actively picked up before. All over the Chamber, by almost everyone I think, it was indicated that all the signals on red were on deep red in the question of whether this could be arranged in time for all young people. I actually hear the Secretary of State say at the beginning of his reply: we had contact with the parents after writing the letter. Isn't that the first time the Ministry has contacted you directly? Is it necessary to carry out such an investigation from EenVandaag in order to enforce it? Is that necessary before you start checking to see if what you've heard is true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u96	Minister De Jonge has also spoken with individual parents. Maybe with less than you'd like to. I don't know how many of those conversations took place at that time. I would just like to say that it is a question of whether, as a system manager, you should speak with each of the parents involved in this process or whether you will be satisfied when you hear: we hear from the offering municipality that there is a suitable place, we do not hear from parents that this is not the case. Is it enough? Again, with the wisdom of now you can say: you may not have to think too lightly about that and you should be more active in that. I don't think I can put it any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u97	Obviously. Finally, you have an interruption by Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u98	The BE1 group has been informed that before the closure of De Hoenderloo Group there were other parties who could have taken over the Group. Of course, with the necessary adjustments, but that would have ensured a great deal of rest, at least among some of the children who stayed there, their parents and their aid workers. That actually raises the question of what has been the guiding factor in the decision-making process. Was that what Puryn needed to be held up so this would be collateral damage? Or was that the kids? And to what extent have they ultimately been helped by the decisions taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u99	I hope that the children and their families have been at the forefront of all the balancing of interests that have been achieved. A while ago, I mentioned in a debate that Pluryn decided to stop with De Hoenderloo Groep for several reasons. I do not think that I am in a position to place a ranking in it which has been the main reason. They have mentioned several reasons, which are all valid. A very important reason has really been that the quality of the assistance was not for all children at a level that an organization like Pluryn found appropriate to Pluryn. That's another prize in Pluryn. Mr Pluryn said that we are partly undervalued, to which we must draw conclusions by trying to move the young people to another place in good conscience. If the question arises as to whether we should not have gone further with any other provider who could have taken over in order to maintain peace, I say: I think that is a logical question. To Mrs Simons: I honestly do not think that this is a question for the government as a system responsible, but for the municipality and fellow providers. They have to make that decision. If someone else raises their finger and wants to take over, but it is not addressed, then it is not regulated in the Youth Act that the government can say: you have to do business with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u100	I understand that too, because that would only stand in the way of sound management. Nevertheless, there is a great deal of interference from us, the government of yours, I would say better in this particular case, even when it comes to correcting mistakes that have been made. I can imagine that there is also another role for that government to ensure that care is at least continued as much as possible. So that's not what was chosen. I'd like to put that question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u101	But care continuity can also be completed in different ways. That could mean that young people are staying in the same place. That is continuity, knowing that the aid was not at a level everyone wanted, not even at Pluryn. Then you have continuity, but that's part continuity of something you don't want. And I don't think anyone wants that. The other choice was to strictly pull the plug and to ensure that young people get as much as possible to a good other place. That is what has been chosen, with all the consequences, because that is why we are together now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u102	Still, finally, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State outlines two extremes, namely to continue with care that is not sufficient or rigorously plugged out. I suggest that there was another alternative in the middle, namely good care continuity by other parties. I would like a reflection from the Secretary of State on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u103	I have no answer to that other than what I just gave. If you say that, you always think it is, but it really isn't a shuffledown when I say that this is done under the Youth Act, which has been widely endorsed by the Chamber. Under the Youth Act, this is the responsibility of the commissioning municipality, the financiers and the healthcare providers. They have to take care of it together. If things are really at risk of going wrong, then the system responsible is going to interfere, and that is what is going to happen in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u104	Before the Secretary of State will continue, there is another interruption by Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u105	What I would like to ask the Secretary of State is this. If you listen from a distance to this, it all sounds like incident politics: we wait until it is so serious and then we see who had the responsibility. But that's not showing ownership, especially on a file where people, in this case children, need others to watch over them. Isn't it time, regardless of whose responsibility it really is, to show that ownership intrinsically and proactively, my question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u106	I think that is a good question, but it is the same question that has been asked differently by other spokesmen: what tasks and responsibilities does the government have in this important dossier and in this case the care of vulnerable young people? I think that today we have to look very critically at the question of whether the government should not follow more closely with young people when such important events occur in the field of youth aid, when an important provider pulls the plug. We have to face that question now. The intervention at the front from the Empire by saying "you must be with that or that provider in the sea" would traverse the system whereby municipalities and regions conclude contracts with providers that they say we trust you to provide the appropriate care to the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u107	I understand. Nevertheless, incident policy is piling up instead of realizing that there is just more going on. To put it bluntly, you could say that a lot of red flags have gone up. When are we going to wait instead of waiting for it to really fly off the bend, just saying in advance: we are not waiting, but are just going to intervene? We see that The Hoenderloo Group is not an incident, but stands for a system that is not well set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u108	No question has been asked, but perhaps the Secretary of State can reflect on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u109	I meant it as a question. When are we going to set up a system that says with several red flags: it is waiting for an accident; we are not waiting, but we are acting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u110	To stay in that terminology: I am trying to find out with the Chamber today in this debate, and I hope that we can work together where we see red flags and who takes responsibility. Once again, I should like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u111	Then I suggest that the Secretary of State should continue to answer the questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u112	That is, as far as I am concerned, under the heading of the transfer of care. The next important question will be discussed. There were still 40 young people in care at the time of closure. At least they had to get to a good place. Pluryn has opted for a case-by-case approach to help organise a suitable and sustainable place for those children. As far as I am concerned, this is also an answer to the question that I believe Mr Raemakers is asking whether we should not be more proactive about the Children's Ombudsman. I think that is already very close to a case-by-case approach, but you should also take sufficient time to do so. "Passing" means "I can't say it often enough "that in the professional opinion of the aid worker, in this case people at Pluryn, and of the municipality as the client in consultation with young people and their parents, it was estimated that the places were in line with the support demand of the young people at that time. The transformation mission was also leading in looking at the children's future. If possible, then at home, with possibly intensive outpatient guidance. If that was not possible, then a small-scale provision would preferably follow, if possible in the region. For a number of young people, such a solution has also been found with a place in its own region. The other young people have received an offer from Pluryn for a follow-up site at one of Pluryn's locations. Minister De Jonge promised to the Chamber that the Hoenderloo Group would not be closed until that would be settled for all those young people. For this reason, the actual closing date has also been postponed by one week. Taking more time, as some argued, would probably not have led to another outcome. Because those young people had a place where at that time the aid workers said it was appropriate and sustainable. The fact that a suitable place had been found for young people does not mean that no more problems have been experienced. All MPs ask how the outcome reported by Pluryn and the municipality relates to the image at this time that for dozens of young people that place is not sustainable and appropriate. What do I know about that? The parents of three young people, as I said earlier, could not accept this offer from Pluryn. That was not appropriate for them. They have sought their own solution. Of course, that was their right. These are young people who are in voluntary care. Shortly before the closure of De Hoenderloo Groep, they preferred another place, or rather, they were forced to choose. They had no other choice. Unfortunately, this solution has not yet proved to be sustainable. At the moment we are still getting all hands on deck to see if a good solution can still be found for those three children. For the other young people, it is best to assess their suitability after a certain period of time, when they are in a new place for a while, when they have landed there. That's not good to judge on day one. The question of care can also change. That's what we wrote in the letter. It happens. In the months following the closure of De Hoenderloo Group, some of the young people found that the site was inappropriate or inappropriate. That was not clear for some of the young people on day one either. Maybe it was for their parents. According to the aid workers, it was a suitable place in their opinion. Some young people have now been given a new place within Pluryn. From the new group of four young people founded by Pluryn in Almere, the autumn 2020 inspection found that it did not provide adequate assistance. That is something that has been looked at very closely. Therefore, Pluryn subsequently implemented improvement measures to make that particular place more appropriate. For that location, the IGJ requested that measures be taken and an improvement plan drawn up. The improvement plan presented by Pluryn has been judged sufficiently concrete and complete by the IGJ. This is stated in the IGJ's fifth progress report, published on 9 December. I have already said that the IGJ has received no further signals about young people who have gone home or who have gone to a place outside of Pluryn where they have not received adequate follow-up care. Also from municipalities I have received no signals that the place would not be appropriate. If so, these young people and their parents can go to the municipality. That is also the case in the Youth Act: if you are convinced that you are not in the right place, then the municipality is a point of contact, because it has a duty of care. For example, independent customer support is available in each municipality to help families. As far as I am concerned, municipalities could sometimes draw more attention to this, because unfortunately this is not always the case. Families in this local setting, the municipality, can also contact the regional experts youth teams. So there's an infrastructure where parents can go. Maybe not all parents have done that, maybe even no one. I don't know, and I want to get a look at that. That's local. Nationally, we have the Right Loket. That's where parents can go. They can say: the aid worker there thinks it's good help, but it really isn't appropriate for my child; I'm going to the Right Loket. We also have the Advisory and Complaints Office Youth Services, idem ditto. There parents can also complain if they think that their child is really not in the right place. In other words, we've arranged the necessary arrangements. Yet people with complaints remain completely frustrated, sad and desperate. So I can also imagine that it is difficult if you have already been in De Hoenderloo Groep and are experiencing a new place as inappropriate, precisely because you have made that transition and suddenly get a different type of offer. That is why I repeat, as far as I am concerned, that was a hand-out in the letter that went to the Chamber on Monday, which I would like to have a look at. I am genuinely interested in what is going on with those families who now say: the government may have the image that it is good, but it is not at all. I've reached out to them by referring to our Unit Complex Care Questions. Not one complaint had been received before this debate and before the letter, which is also an address, as a last resort, so to speak. Mr. Slob and I also included that address in the letter. I'm going to talk to the support team Care for the Youth and with municipalities to see how we can help parents who report there adequately to improve their situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u113	Secretary of State, is this almost the part about the transfer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u114	Yeah, I'd like to add one thing. Because this is what I wrote to the Chamber in the letter. I've seen the reaction to that. I haven't kept my ears shut since. I have listened to the input into this debate, but I have also spoken with parents. What I'm learning from that is that these parents think it's a nice treat that I want to give people the opportunity to address their complaint somewhere if they didn't have the safety or the energy to do it so far, but that they say that the hotline you're calling now, for acute care questions, will probably not approach those parents. You're asking for an action from them. They must come out of their insecurity et cetera. That is why I would like to propose to the House the following. I would suggest that I instruct the Youth Support Team to approach each of the families who did not have a follow-up after Pluryn in August and whose children were still in care, with the question of how the child is doing and whether it is in a good place. I spoke to parents who told me that they know about families who are satisfied and whose child is in a good place, but they also know about families who are not satisfied and who didn't want to be in One-Today, because they thought it was too unsafe. I suggest to the Chamber that we get the Youth Support Team to take action on that to see where the shoe is wringing, so that we have a better picture. Partly following the independent evaluation that is to take place following this closure, I would like to see whether this is the future infrastructure in similar situations or whether we need to move on to something else. In short, however, I propose that the government should take an active role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u115	Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, this was the cup of handover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u116	Yes, and I said something important, because I can see that Mr Kwint has been eager for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u117	Yes, that's right, but since there are no infinite interruptions, I'm just trying to help MPs to be able to ask questions very efficiently in several areas at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u118	Maybe I can say one more introductory sentence on this part, including what we write about young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u119	I will certainly give you permission to do so, but indeed one sentence and then I will give the floor to Mr Kwint for the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u120	It's gonna be a phrase with a few commas, but I want to clear up a misunderstanding. We have written in the answer to the parliamentary questions about the changing care demand of young people, which makes the care no longer appropriate. That can almost sound reproachful, as if these young people are so critical and say that care is no longer appropriate. That is absolutely not the way it is meant to be. I mean that young people with multiple problems are not robots and that the question of care can change there. There may be a problem, a problem may arise, and another problem may replace it. The question of care may change and this may lead to the conclusion that care is no longer appropriate. That's what reality is like. That certainly doesn't apply to all those young people. So it is absolutely not a reproach to those young people and their families, but simply the fact of how it is done in the field of youth aid. I am looking at Mr De Neef, who will be able to talk about it. So it is absolutely not meant to be an accusation by those families.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u121	That's obvious. I give the floor to Mr Kwint for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u122	I think it's a good idea to call all the parents. I believe that I myself suggested this in my term. Because of what the Secretary of State said afterwards, namely that certainly in a situation of instability there is a greater chance that the care demand for such a young person will change, should we not take that group more broadly by at least doing so for the 160 people who were initially in De Hoenderloo Group and had to find another place? It is precisely because of this changing demand for care that we also tackle what we first thought fit well and which parents may have satisfied for a six months that it was not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u123	What I understand from this happening is that The Hoenderloo Group on the nearly 160 young people who were being treated there at the beginning of 2020 said that most of these young people have finished their treatment before we close. To be honest, I would find it a little strange, but I would like to have a conversation with the Chamber of Inquiry about this if the support team is going to call care for the Youth families whose aid workers say the treatment is ready and if we ask those young people if they are in the right place. Because the appropriate place is at that time when they are back in their family because the treatment is complete. To be honest, I think it would go a long way if we had to call all those families whose caregiver says that the treatment has been completed. If that becomes a precedent, we have to call thousands of families with that demand, while the treatment is concluded in the opinion of the aid worker. We also call for a dossier to be closed or for a different type of assistance to be provided when another type of assistance is needed, such as Wmo or otherwise. To be honest, I think it would go a long way to calling the whole group that the aid workers said the treatment had been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u124	Obviously. I am looking at Mr Kwint for the follow-up interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u125	Yeah, my third pass, I think. I understand that, but I think we're just trying to prevent this from becoming a precedent, because you don't want to get into such a situation. That's consistent with another question I had. For example, the inspection or the Secretary of State says that the aid workers considered that there was an appropriate offer. Who's that? Is that the individual counselor of a young man? Or is that the institute, in this case, Pluryn?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u126	That reminds me of the discussion about the Super League, in which the trainers of the individual clubs have very different ideas than their club. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the institutions are the contact points for the municipality as the client. I understand exactly what Mr Kwint means, because individual supervisors will say: I do not know if this is a suitable place, but a young person is placed somewhere on behalf of my institution. And that is, of course, the contact point for municipalities. I was an alderman myself. In my opinion, the account holders of municipalities do not have the habit of talking to individual aid workers to ask them if they agree with the opinion of the club with which that municipality has a contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u127	I understand that from the municipality, just as I understand a lot of things in this system from the perspective of the one who controls it. But I do not understand that from the perspective of the person concerned, because in this particular case there is still an additional factor. The healthcare provider has a huge financial interest in selling a beautiful site. It's a really nice place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u128	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u129	This healthcare provider must therefore indicate to the municipality: yes, we think that these routes are well completed. There's a huge vulnerability there, isn't there? There is a party that considers, on the one hand, on the basis of its professionalism, that routes have been completed or not, but on the other hand has a financial interest. Well, if I can believe the Director's stories, then the financial needs were great. That's almost tying the cat to the bacon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u130	And your question is? To help you, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u131	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is unwise to tie the cat to the bacon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u132	I always think that's unwise. But seriously, in response to Mr Kwint's question. I know exactly what he means. I also see where the vulnerability is. That is why I believe that we should not simply evaluate what happened by Pluryn alone. For then the butcher will judge his own flesh, with all due respect, for there will also be very meaningful things in it. I also hope that Pluryn will involve parents and children in that evaluation. That is why I think it is very important for an independent evaluation to be carried out. What I was just trying to tell you is that I wanted to go there in my contribution in the first term, and I think it is quite a different mindset for the government if she is going to say now: it would be good if we started actively to find out what is going on with these families. In fact, what Mr Kwint suspects will come to light there, namely that individual aid workers have long said 'this is not a suitable place'. Then they're gonna get right. If families are asked "is your child in a suitable place?', Then that story will come along, unless these parents say: we had very skeptical thoughts at first, but in the meantime our child is doing well at the place where it is now. Let us hope that will happen; that is in the interests of everyone. I think that Mr Kwint's intention is that the individual aid worker, who simply knows how a child is put together and what a child needs, is taken seriously in the process. He won't blame me for addressing the offeror, because that's what the Youth Act provides for. It's not the government, it's the city. Afterwards, the thermometer must be inserted properly so that it becomes clear how these families are doing. Let's not fool each other: there we should go a bit deeper. And I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u133	That is a commitment to Mr Kwint. I see that Mr Raemakers is also trying to interrupt. Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u134	It is a good commitment from the Secretary of State that the Youth Support Team is going to look into how things are going with each of these families. It is also good that the Empire takes more direction. But let us also take a look at the last few months, because it concerns 40 young people, 27 young people, dozens of young people; we do not know exactly. Of course, through the motion on biweekly information, the Chamber has clearly indicated to the cabinet that it wants to keep its finger on the wrist: how are all these young people doing? If the Secretary of State looks back on that, what can he say about the knowledge of today? Has the cabinet actually done enough to keep in touch with these parents and those children?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u135	In my view, the cabinet has really seriously tried to inform the Chamber about this, namely by saying that the client, according to the law the municipality, and the youth assistance were in agreement on the conclusion that the children have ended up in an appropriate and sustainable place. And with that, Minister De Jonge completed his information to the Chamber at that time on that part. In addition, the Chamber has been informed, perpetually, about the findings of the IGJ on the young people who came specifically to Pluryn's facilities, and this has led, among other things, to the fifth IGJ progress report of December last year, which concluded: one provision really needs to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u136	My picture now is that perhaps that one information side of Minister De Jonge should have gone on for a little longer; then perhaps we would have prevented us from standing here today and many young people from having a suitable place. But I also have another question, which is about those three young people who, shortly before the closure of De Hoenderloo Group on 6 August, turned down that offer from Pluryn. But it also says in the letter: in the end, that new place did not turn out to be sustainable. My question would be: when was 'in the end', what month and date are we talking about, and has the cabinet or the municipality already made efforts to find a new place for these three young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u137	In my opinion, it is not customary here, especially in a plenary debate, to talk about individual cases, but we are always talking about those three parents, who were also present at EenVandaag, for example. What is happening now is that none of the three parents are happy or satisfied with what is happening with their child and still has a question of care for the child, and that now, in consultation with the municipality and with, I thought, the Youth Authority or at least externally, we are looking into whether these children can still get a suitable place. But that is being seriously addressed. In any case, I can promise that this will not lead to a solution tomorrow, but it is seriously being looked at to make an adequate offer. By the way, one child is there, as we saw in the broadcast, another child is in De Glind in Barneveld. At some point you might also have to face each other, while taking the parents very seriously, that the help and the parents really do not agree on what appropriate help is. And then it gets really exciting, because, for example, if a parent says "this has to happen," does that mean that any aid worker can answer 100%? That is a very fundamental question. And that applies, for example, to the young person who is in De Glind: is that an appropriate provision? That's small-scale. The father is not satisfied with that, and he will have very good reasons for that. I'm in this case right now, but there's no name attached to it, Mr. President. But take it from me that we take this very seriously without making any promises that it will lead to a solution tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u138	I thank the Secretary of State. I think it's a good habit not to talk about individuals or families in the Chamber. That's not because it's not considered interesting, but because then you get very much into the personal atmosphere of people. So let us try to keep that up in this debate. I see that Mr Van der Staaij is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u139	Yes, because I also appreciate the Secretary of State's willingness to actively question. But I am also aware that this is an exceptional action, which has to do with how things have turned out in this case and the publicity that has arisen around it. The question is also whether something wider is wrong. So my question is also: does the Secretary of State also want to promote an answer in the discussions with these parents to how these signals did not get through earlier? Because that list of municipal support, inspection, right window, Regional Expertise Centre, Unit Complex Care Questions is impressive on the one hand, but on the other hand it's a bit of a maze; where do you end up if things don't go well in this kind of situation? So I would like that to be learned from it, so that in subsequent situations we do not address a minister or secretary of state with "can you go after it?', But that the system actually works better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u140	I very much agree with Mr Van der Staaij's intervention. I think it's extraordinary what we do by walking by and calling the families concerned. And the question is: are you going to do that more often in the future? Let us hope at all that this is not necessary, that there will no longer be such a shift where there will be a lot of grief and suffering. In reply to Mr Van der Staaij's question, I would like to say that we have added the external independent evaluation to the experience we are going to gain from this action by the support team, and that should lead, as far as I am concerned, to a new line on how we will deal with this type of change in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u141	Thank you. I see that there is also an interruption by Mrs Gündoğan. Before I give you the floor, I suggest that, for the sake of the process and careful consideration of all questions, after this interruption, when all the questions from the transfer heading have been dealt with, proceed to the system and the other questions. Then we can conclude the debate in good order. I give the floor to Mrs Güntoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a member of Volt, I would like to ask whether it is known that Defence for Children has decided that the Netherlands of all EU countries counts the most imprisoned children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u143	I don't hear a question yet, but I do hear a remark. How do I feel about that? I think Mr Peters has already said that the Netherlands is world champion of removal. That is what I have said on several occasions. I'm not proud of that. In fact, we are also taking action to really reduce that. I also speak reputable youth workers. They say: you should actually go to zero forced removals. That should be the goal. They're making serious work of that, too. During last year's budget debate, when you were not yet working in this beautiful place, we also gave figures to the Chamber on how that process is going. We support youth workers in this. The aim is really, really aimed at reducing it. Because I think it's a form of defeat when it happens so massively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u144	I couldn't agree more. I can only agree with you on this subject. Maybe it's a new subject for me. That is why it is not necessarily a question. But while I am working on this dossier, I stumble from amazement at how, as a rich country, we are so incredibly different from EU countries, including EU countries with which we can compare greatly. The question must of course be: do you understand that as a newcomer I am so surprised?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u145	I think it creates a bond when Mrs. Gündoğan says she agrees with me. That's a fine observation. But frankly, I am also pleased with a few fresh eyes from time to time in the debate, which also say very critically, uninhibitedly and with amazement: what is going on here? That'll keep us all sharp. By the way, nothing to the detriment of MPs who have been spokesmen for years, because they also keep me sharp, but I think a few fresh eyes who with uninhibited amazement "what is going on here?" questions, have added value. So, as far as I'm concerned, welcome to Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u146	I am going to propose, as I have just said, that the other questions should be dealt with carefully at a rapid pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mr President, with all due respect, I have also received some minor questions. The question is whether this contributes to the debate. I think we have already had the point: what are you going to do for these families and what conclusion for the future are you going to draw? But I've had a lot of smaller questions. I've got some papers here, too, but keep me sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u148	The advantage of small questions is that you can also answer them briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u149	No, that's not true, Mr. Chairman. May I disagree with you? You can ask very small questions that bring a very long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u150	Then I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u151	I'll have all of you, too. Mr. Chairman. Mr Raemakers asked if the ministries had had any contact with EenVandaag in the run-up to that broadcast. There hasn't been any contact with EenVandaag. This in itself is not surprising either, because this is primarily a question that concerns the municipalities, as responsible authorities, and the aid workers. Mr. Chairman. Then the transfer of care: where are the differences between the figures in the letter sent to the Lower House and those of EenVandaag? I think I've gone over that in full. That was also a question from Mr Raemakers. I hope that the research that the Youth Support Team is going to do will bring those figures closer together, although I honestly do not hope that the conclusion will be that dozens of parents find that their children are not in the right place. I hope it's really less, because every incorrect placement is too much. Mr Raemakers said that he read in the letter that no further reports were made at the inspections. He asked if this means the threshold is too high. I think this has already been dealt with. I don't think we can rule out this being the case. Mr Van der Staaij rightly said that there are so many points of contact and that it is the question of whether people can still see the forest through the trees. That is also a point of attention: how can we very easily show people the way in that infrastructure? Shouldn't we close some windows to make it simpler? I don't know. That's what we're gonna think about. The fact is that people don't come to the IGJ massively with complaints. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Neef asked how many young people are at home and what perspective is being offered. Mr Slob is about to go into education. But when it comes to care, we know from two kids that they're at home. These are two of the three young people whose parents have expressed a preference for a different place than they were offered. Municipality, providers and the support team for the Acts: so it's the support team and not the Youth Authority together to see how we can solve that well. That's the answer to that question. I've been talking about the evaluation. I am now putting aside all the questions as to why the images are changing between what the cabinet knows and what the Chamber has information or what is venting EenVandaag. Mrs Kuik invited me to state explicitly that it did not go well. I think Mrs Westerveld had something like: state clearly. I think I've done it enough. That can be seen from my whole contribution. Otherwise I would push away an investigation by saying: no, it went well. The acknowledgment is here. Things probably didn't go well. We're gonna get a closer look at it. Are you willing to call all the parents? That was an explicit question from various groups. I just answered that. That's how I handled the transfer of care block. Then I'll get to the system, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna walk through that even faster talking. Mr Ceder asked: what about the system and its responsibilities? I'm not going to explain the whole system again. That may be a very interesting argument, but we do not have the time. In general, however, I would like to point out that the government takes responsibility where it finds shortcomings in the system. The draft law Improving availability of care for young people going to the Chamber, for example, is about strengthening the role of regions in identifying matching supply and demand. It is also about strengthening the governance of providers. That's what we're working on. This also applies to the strengthening of understanding and supervision. There's a lot going on. The Empire has come to the conclusion, even before this happened with De Hoenderloo Groep: there really needs to be some change for the specialist assistance. That's one of the things that's going on in these laws. In addition, the question has been asked: how can we prevent institutions from falling apart in addition to these legislative pathways without any arrangements being made? How do we prevent parties from referring to each other? I would add that, for example, the positioning and development of the Youth Authority play an important role in this. The earlywarning system is intended to show as early as possible whether something is threatening to go wrong and act accordingly. We are also working on a covenant of continuity youth aid. That covenant is concluded with the municipalities and the branches for the specialized care for young people to see how we can ensure continuity. A separate agreement is therefore concluded with the main actors in that field. The word "perseverance" has been dropped. Mr Ceder asked about that. In this respect, it is a pity... this week we are going to say that we are reaching agreement with the municipalities on solutions for the here and now in the provision of youth aid. That includes perseverance. We do not want to organise this nationally. But we are looking at whether this can be laid down, for example, by expert teams, who can really give a clue in the vein of: this young person needs this care. It's on the agenda. I hope to inform the Chamber this week by means of a separate letter. Mr Peters asked: "How do we help municipalities to take control of the transformation? It's been going on for six years. Do they take that up enough and shouldn't they have a push from the Empire?" At the moment, for example, financial arrangements provide support to reduce locations, reception settings. There is an impulse of 33.5 million from the Empire to shape that transformation of closed youth aid. I say this in response to Mrs Gündoğan's question on that point. This point is also part of the agreements we are about to make with municipalities. Once again, I am very optimistic that I will be able to inform the Chamber about this this week. Mr President, I will just skip a few questions, and I will hear from Members of Parliament that their question has not been answered. It's kind of stupid that I'm saying this out loud.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u152	This is a very explicit way of entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u153	It's not a debate to make jokes, I guess. I've said a lot of things, too. I can see the answers now that they are still separate on paper. I've answered those questions in the more general sections. Mrs. Kuik asked: are you going to arrange more appropriate and specialized care for this group of children? That has everything to do with the demand: is there enough specialized offer at all, even though De Hoenderloo Groep would have remained in full orchestration? In addition to calling parents in the sphere of aftercare and seeing if you can organize appropriate care, this is a very important question in the debate. Is there enough specialized assistance at all? I can say in general terms that there is a suspicion that things can improve on the left and on the right. Everyone in this room knows that. This is also part of the agreements we are going to make with the VNG. In oral Question Time, in which I believe almost all the Members present two weeks ago took part, I said the following. With regard to the agreements we are going to make with municipalities, the question is not whether there should be more investment in specialized and acute assistance, but how much. Once again, I am going to inform the House about this or the cabinet, because I am doing it together with Minister Ollongren. So I say that there will be substantial money, also for this year, 2021. I'm going to inform the Chamber about that this week. This also applies to specialized aid, which has to be scaled up to some extent. Mr Peters has asked a number of questions about family homes and small-scale facilities. He asks whether it is true that the Youth Act does not refer to family homes and small-scale services, but only to foster care. The Youth Act explicitly mentions family homes or foster care. A municipality shall ensure that a young person is placed, if reasonably possible, with a foster parent or in a family home as close as possible to the family setting, unless this is demonstrably not in the interest of the young person; an institution shall be in the picture. Small-scale facilities are not mentioned as such in the Youth Act, but are important for achieving the objective, as set out in Action Line 2 of the Youth Care Programme: raising children at home as much as possible. Mr Peters also mentioned some figures. How many family homes and small-scale facilities are there now, he asks, and is that enough? According to the latest data, but I'm afraid those are from 2018, there are about 1,000 family homes: 937. There are over 3,100 young people living in family homes. There will be a new factsheet with new information about family homes. It'll be ready this summer. There are no figures on small-scale facilities in youth aid. I do not know whether Mr Peters is going to ask a question about Peer van der Helm's point about the 2,700 places.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u154	We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u155	No, the question is... In the law it is clear: we want as much as possible at home and as close as possible, and if there is no other way, the residential property is to say so. Then I find it strange that apparently there is not a complete picture of whether we have small-scale facilities and sufficient family homes. There's 1,000 of them. There are many children who are residential, and I think they are not all suitable, but actually belong in other places. So my simple question would be: do we put it in the picture? And if we're looking at it, how are we going to get direction so that those places are there, according to the law, apparently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u156	In my view, this is also one of the key points in the better system that we all aim to achieve. This is also fully in line with the transformation of which Mr Peters himself knows everything as a former alderman. He knows what challenges you'll face. I think it would be good if we agreed on a few things. First of all, let's get a better picture of things. It's possible. I just indicated that, but I don't know if that is an adequate answer in his eyes, because he's asking for it again. We aim to get a good picture of demand and supply by youth aid region, of which 42 are in the Netherlands: what is the demand and what is the supply associated with it? We also need to work better together above-regionally. This must be enforced in the legislative proposal which we hope will be discussed here in the not too long term. Mr Peters aims to shift from heavy to light, from residential to family homes, or rather to foster care, or rather to a family with support. In addition, supply and demand had to match. As far as I am concerned, these questions need to be answered in a regional perspective: how are we going to give them to each other? If Mr Peters wants that to be different, I believe that this is at least a crossroads of the system we have. I would be very happy if we had 42 regional visions which I can send to the Chamber: this is the palette, this is what we are talking about, and we can draw conclusions as system leaders in terms of whether this is adequate or not for the question that exists. Linked to this is the question: have we done enough at this time, do municipalities have enough insight into this, for example on waiting lists? I would also like to make an appointment with municipalities this week about the waiting lists and their view. My hands itch to inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u157	I give the floor to Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u158	Finally, Mr President. I don't need to cross the system. I'm one of those old aldermen who could have used that help back then. My point is that, apparently, we do not even know whether we can abide by the Youth Act, and I think that is quite different. I'd just like to leave it at that. It's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u159	I suggest the Secretary of State doesn't say anything, although that sounds very strange. Mr Kwint wants to interrupt on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u160	Yes, I think that is going to be dealt with in the context of unanswered questions, and it is in line with what Mr Peters said. To what extent has it been a conscious choice to put it very far away for The Hague? The Secretary of State says that there should be more regional cooperation and more direction. No one can argue with that. But would it not be better for that particular, specialist part of the offer to be dealt with more often, bearing in mind this experience, to say: yes, that should be regulated at regional level, but under the direction and with the financing of the Empire?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u161	"With funding" is in my view uncontested, because youth aid is financed by the Empire. These resources go to the municipalities and, yes, they should be sufficient, because that is the demand behind the demand. We're definitely gonna talk about that. This week we conclude an agreement with the municipalities about this calendar year. About the future, about the structural story, we're gonna talk about it. I hear all kinds of noises in the room, even that the specialized youth aid must go to the government. I believe that this question really needs to be answered by a new cabinet to be formed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u162	Obviously. I see that Mr Ceder is also interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u163	To go into this: I await the agreement with the municipalities, but I can imagine that there are situations in which the municipality is transcending. That is also what Mr Kwint is pointing out. I find it rather complicated not to provide for it now. We are now concluding an agreement with the municipalities, but what about the cases that cannot be resolved internally by the municipalities? I wonder if you might be willing to see if the Empire can do a little more for the most complex cases that cannot be solved within a municipality itself. Because you see that it happens and if we don't solve this, the most complex cases de facto always fall out of the boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u164	I think that is a fair question from Mr Ceder. I just think that at the moment we should not necessarily resort to the instrument of national perseverance, no matter how logical that sounds, because that is no more and no less than the crossing of the system. As far as I am concerned, the system is really not sacred, let that be clear, but I would rather, appropriately within the system, lay down that competence at the decentralised level. I would almost say to Mr Ceder: let you be surprised by what we come up with. 'Cause my idea is to organize it on a decentralised basis. If that does not work, I am sure we will have another debate on this in the near future. But I see the urgency and I see Mr Ceder's comment as an incentive to act quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u165	I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u166	The Secretary of State mentioned several times "2021" and "this calendar year" when it comes to financial agreements with municipalities on youth care. Of course, we have already provided EUR 300 million extra for 2021 and 2022, but yes, the cut in Rutte II was EUR 450 million per year, so you will not be there, especially since there are more young people who need youth care. My question is specifically about 2022. We know that in May and June, municipalities will be drawing up a spring note and spring plans, which will already have to look at the budget, and that they will have a bottleneck in 2022. How will that next year, this week, be included in these agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u167	We have been intensive for weeks in consultation with the collective of municipalities, the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Those talks are constructive, but the sparks will blow off left and right. With regard to the package that we hope to present this week, I sincerely hope that the Chamber will say: this gives comfort for this calendar year. Does that apply to next year? Asking the question is answering it: not before next year. The combination of any additional resources and any additional measures is on the board of the new cabinet; that is really the way forward. Let us therefore express the hope that the formation will progress a little and that the new cabinet will be able to offer that comfort as soon as possible. This is a wish not only of this portfolio holder but certainly of the collective of municipalities. Just, the appointments I'm going to present this week relate to this calendar year. There are also notions about structural solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u168	This desire for the formation to progress quickly and in a good way, of course, is shared by everyone. I'm very curious to read what's in the pipeline for this calendar year. Of course, I am also very curious about the exact budget. I don't think you're gonna tell me any of that today. But it is the reality that a municipality has to look at a budget and also at a spring note, or whatever they call it; that is different. It may well be that this will reduce the prognosis of next year's money and that this year too will have consequences. So I understand that there's no way to negotiate a sum for next year. I understand. But can there at least be an agreement between the municipalities and the Empire that there is also some coulance and understanding, that it will be taken into account towards 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u169	I do not know exactly how to interpret that question, but we are talking about it intensively. It now seems that the discussion on the structural solution is taking shape in part thanks to arbitration. There is an independent committee that will indicate what measures are desirable and what amount is included to enable municipalities to provide adequate assistance to families with a demand for help. Let us also mention this in this debate. That is what it is ultimately about: to help those vulnerable families, those vulnerable children. I think that we should all be very alert here at the pace that it takes and at the comfort that municipalities will hopefully get as soon as possible. There's the Chamber, I'm there, but I'm in a cabinet and we have to agree on that. So once again, it would be very desirable for there to be a new cabinet soon to be able to take a decision on this matter with authority. I can't take that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u170	I note that the interruptions took place in this round. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. Can he indicate which block he stayed with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u171	The end is in sight, Mr President, at least as far as my input into the first term is concerned. I realize that I speak a little longer than the four minutes of Members of Parliament, but they all ask me questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u172	I hear Mrs Kuik asking for an answer to Mr Peters' question. Apparently, there's still one question left. It's gonna be answered. Mrs. Chicken, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u173	And a little more specific. We have not only asked whether there will be more budget, but that is good news and we are going to follow it with interest, of course, but we have also asked: should you not continue to direct it or withdraw a little bit or perseverance through those regions? You haven't answered that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u174	On that last point, I have just tried to point out to Mr Ceder that we also have this power of perseverance on the agenda. That's on the agenda for the talks with the VNG. I express the hope and wish that this letter will also be included in the letter which is going to the Chamber this week. Of course, I am not going to say what kind of agreement we are going to conclude with the municipalities, because that agreement is not yet complete. Then I'm really talking for my turn. I want to maintain the good connection we now have with the VNG. Mr Peters asked: what about Peer van der Helm's calculation? Says there's gonna be 2,700 seats left. If I understand correctly, these are family homes and small-scale services as collective. What I just said is that the Empire does facilitate, even with money. With 33.5 million, municipalities will be able to build up these small-scale facilities. For the rest, I can agree with the earlier answer I gave, namely that we are talking to municipalities and that we are expressing the wish, even by law, that there is a vision for each region of how they work towards this small scale. Mr. Chairman. I still owe an answer to a question from Mrs Simons on the opinion of Youth Jump. I am familiar with the development of that advice from the think tank Youth jump and the process of building. When that advice is ready, we will, of course, have a serious discussion about it. I think Mrs Simons says: if young people themselves come up with ideas, then it is very, very wise if the Empire is very serious about this too. In many cases, I do nothing but involve young people fully. That's what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u175	I see a response from Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u176	I am very pleased with the answer given by the Secretary of State and just wonder if there is a timetable for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u177	I don't know. Maybe I can come back to that in second term. Otherwise, for me, the general principle is that there will be an opinion. That is really coming, and when I say that we are dealing with this seriously, I do not mean that I want to let that wave until there is a new cabinet. We're gonna take a look at that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u178	I suggest that the Secretary of State continues with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u179	I'm at my last block, other than that, so those are questions that I suspect I may not have answered yet. The first question I already took with me in the previous block, about financial pressure. I believe that I have indeed adequately and adequately answered that question from D66 and the SP. Mrs Maeijer asked how the sale of the property was made at the beautiful location at De Hoenderloo Groep. That was sold through an open procedure. Anyone could bid. Land Hoenderloo was bought by two companies for, says here, 16 million euros. The site in Hoenderloo still has a care destination and is partly rented out to health care institutions. The property in the head of Deelen was purchased by real estate investor David Hart Group for 5.6 million euros. I think that is the most important information about this question. Mrs Westerveld said: this around The Hoenderloo Group is not the only thing going on; there are more examples. She mentioned Briedes. Now Mrs Westerveld probably knows better than many spokesperson here in the Chamber that that is primarily the responsibility of Minister Dekker, but I would like to comment on that. What is the state of affairs and is not going to happen the same here? Because there too, quite a lot of young people are being treated. Has the care continuity been secured? The municipalities concerned are encouraged, in cooperation with the certified institutions, to draw up a plan of approach for the careful transfer of clients from Briedes to other certified institutions. Briedes is going to involve children and parents in this in two ways. There is a client representation, which is involved in making a plan of approach, so that the client perspective is taken into account as best as possible. In addition, Briedes has consultation with individual children and parents about the transfer of children so that their wishes are taken into account. The importance of children and families is that care is continued and that there is as little as possible a change of guard with youth protectors. The inspection has asked Briedes to work out how the assistance relationship in the transfer of children will be maintained as far as possible. The inspection will see to that, too. With my previous answer to Mrs Maeijer's question on the subject of De Hoenderloo Groep, I have already addressed the question of whether there will be a new healthcare provider. There is still a destination concern on it and as far as I know it remains so, but it may well be that the Apeldoorn College has other plans. I'm not part of that anymore, so I don't know. The care institutions that are now there are part of it being rented out to health care institutions... are small-scale facilities, appropriate in the transformation statement and not at all comparable to The Hoenderloo Group. Mr Peters says: I hear that the compulsion in youth aid is decreasing and is increasing again in the ggz. He asks if those are communicating vessels. That concern of Mr Peters is understandable. I know that the IGJ is in the process of conducting a monitoring round on the application of coercion in youth aid, including youth ggz and provision for slightly intellectually limited young people. I will ask the inspection if she recognizes this image and inform the Chamber about it. So I can't give that answer right now, but that comes after the appearance of the image of the IGJ. I see Mrs Westerveld is ready for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u180	Yeah, that's right. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u181	About Briedes, and I don't even mean this organization so much, because I know of course that there is something else going on and that it is also a different organization, but the whole situation is actually the same. So we also see that an institution is closing down. Young people and parents are in uncertainty there for a long time. The municipal councils are not entirely positive about this. I also have contact with a lot of my local colleagues there. We also saw the same thing with De Hoenderloo Groep: a situation of uncertainty is emerging. So this is also about children who lose their trusted aid workers and in this case come to Briedis. Now the question is whether they will lose these aid workers again in a very short time and have to go back to the next one. Look at Robin's situation, which I told you about at the beginning. So the organisations are different, but they are similar situations. I wonder if there might be another after Briedis, where children are in uncertainty again for a long time and they see a lot of helpers again. We know this is a problem, too. So my question to the Secretary of State is, how do we prevent this? I'm not just talking about Briedis. How do we prevent, even after Briedis, the next one from coming back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u182	I assume Mrs Westerveld read the letter that Minister Dekker sent on this last week. It indicates that this is inevitable on the basis of the inspection report. I think that the whole Chamber believes that there should be quality of youth protection and youth rehabilitation. So it is right that you attach that far-reaching conclusion to the fate of Briedis. At the same time, it is of course incredibly harsh, because it dwindles as many families as it does. I speak to young people who say: "I don't even have the mobile number of the youth protector that is linked to me anymore, because it's been another in a few months. It doesn't make sense to save his song, because I'll have another one later." That's a big concern. We're not getting the hang of that. One of the agreements we want to make with municipalities in the context of this week's package is that we want to improve that chain of youth protection and youth rehabilitation. We want to make it simpler and more regionally controlled, so that the risk of this type of accident is reduced. If Mrs Westerveld asks for the guarantee that no more organisations are going to fall down, she can guess the answer. I'm afraid I can't give it to you. However, I do think that we should put the lessons we have learned at De Hoenderloo Group fully into practice and ensure that the child ends up in the right place per individual family.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u183	Obviously. Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u184	We spoke to a number of children last year with a delegation from this Chamber. One of those young people said to us: I call all my aid workers standard sir and ma'am, because they'll be leaving soon anyway. Many of these young people have already seen dozens of aid workers. Of course, you do not want young people to receive help that is of poor quality, but the consequence of the way in which we set up the system is that institutions fall down and new aid workers come in. At the end of the day, those young people will suffer. In the end there are young people, like Robin, who have moved nineteen times. And there are young people, like the young people we spoke to last year, who call standard aid workers mister and ma'am. We need to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u185	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u186	My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether we should change the system. Is he willing to prepare for that in advance at his ministry? Because this system has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u187	This is a very important point, but it does touch on a much broader theme, namely: how attractive is it to work in youth aid? How do we facilitate this as a government and as a municipality as a client? Then you are talking about things such as the real cost. Do we pay the good price for the aid, so that it is also attractive for providers to continue to provide help? This is linked to the increase in charges and the burden of burdens. I think Mrs Maeijer was talking about that. That is a problem for a lot of aid workers who say: I am knocking on a form all day rather than helping children. Those are things we've been working on for a long time, but they really need to be brought a little bit further. It's got all the attention. If Mrs Westerveld says "I also have additional ideas to bring that forward," I say: be my guest. The whole set of measures that is out of place is really a laundry list of things that we are doing, and it must help to reduce the type of misery that Mrs Westerveld calls. Only: no matter what kind of perfect system we are dealing with in the future, I do not think it is entirely possible to prevent a provider from falling over occasionally or an aid worker from leaving so that there is a change. But the massity in which that is happening now, no one wants it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u188	I propose that the Secretary of State continue to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u189	Mr Peters has drawn attention to Chamberwide... No, not Kamerbreed, but Ketenbreed Leren. He asked whether it would analyse how the problems of children's children arose. We don't know if that's gonna be taken. I would like to say to Mr Peters that I would like to discuss with the researchers whether that theme is also involved in that research and whether it is possible that it is part of the total. I'll inform the Chamber about that. Mr. Chairman. I'm done, I suddenly see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u190	Then you will be complimented and thanked by the President for answering all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u191	I see I'm not done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u192	I see that Mrs Westerveld does indeed have one last interruption, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u193	A question that I asked in my first term, namely how can it be that in the area of De Hoenderloo Groep a new provider is now coming up, providing similar care to children of about the same age group. I asked the Secretary of State about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u194	That can be done with the pardon of the fact that that location still has the destination care. In those beautiful buildings on that beautiful terrain, healthcare providers can settle down. They seem to have a contract with the municipalities concerned. But what I did underline: as far as I am aware, it is a small-scale care offer, not comparable to the massity of The Hoenderloo Group. If the Chamber would like to be further informed, I would love to do so, but at the moment I can no longer share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u195	It is, of course, also a statement made again by the predecessor of this Secretary of State, namely that it is no longer of this time that we have children in the woods. That was one of the reasons to quit, besides a number of other reasons. We have been critical of finance from the Chamber a number of times, and inspection reports have been pointed out, but this was one of the reasons for explaining to parents why their children had to leave. Then it is very hard for these parents, some of whom still do not have a suitable place, to see that there is a new provider, whom I don't blame, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u196	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u197	I get the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u198	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is very strange that this should happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u199	In my view, we should not make it a dogma that aid in forests is by definition wrong. It may sometimes be desirable, depending on the specific situation, for children to really be away from the parental family for a while. That will probably not apply to every child who is being treated there, but we should not make it a dogma that it is in the woods and therefore wrong. I understand the point that it should not be a second Hoenderloo Group and not a second type of provision similar to that. I find it an exciting question, because I do not think I can enforce, under my system responsibility, that municipalities as clients organise care in a wooded environment, for example. I cannot force that, and I think that is a complicated discussion. Should we also say: in a polder you cannot offer assistance? You could talk about general principles, for example how far children from the parental home should be helped. But I think that's different than saying: in that place, by definition, it's wrong. But I don't think Mrs Westerveld means that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u200	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u201	I've got one more...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mrs. Westerveld, you're out of interruptions. You can also choose to note something in your second term. You really look at me like you're going to ask a very short question and then you're done. I'll give you the space to ask that short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u203	Well, I think I have one more interruption left, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u204	Doesn't matter. We're wasting time. Ask your question briefly and forcefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u205	I did not say that this aid would no longer be of this age. That is what the predecessor of this Secretary of State said. Then my question is: does the Secretary of State understand that some parents really feel this as a blow to their heads?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u206	Obviously. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u207	I get that question. Mrs Westerveld is right. She reminds me of the quote from my predecessor Hugo de Jonge. If I take that quote literally, he says: in that massity, in those large groups of kids catching in a forest is really not of this time anymore. I would find it a very strange translation of that statement if we now translate it into: then the small-scale reception that is taking place there is no longer allowed. But once again, we should seriously look at the offer that is there now and whether that threatens to go in the same direction as The Hoenderloo Group, whose minister of VWS says "that is no longer of this time." I can't answer that question to the letter right now. We can see with each other that it is really not the same type of concern in terms of massity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u208	Obviously. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the third time and now go to Minister Slob for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, for the questions he has been asked about the teaching area. I'm looking at the minister. Do you have several cubes? You have one block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u209	I also think it can be done a lot faster than my predecessor, because the questions are a bit more compact. I shall begin by thanking the Chamber through you, Madam President, for the first-term input. I'll take care of the teaching part. For my part, too, congratulations to the MPs De Neef and Ceder, who gave a very nice maiden speech. As long as I am complimenting you: the direct cause for this debate is a broadcast of EenVandaag. You know I also have media in my wallet. I saw that five students from the School of Journalism from Utrecht were involved in that item. It is quite extraordinary if that even leads to a debate in the Chamber. That promises something for the future of these journalists. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber knows my views on De Hoenderloo Groep and the education given from Hoenderloo College, with one headquarters and two subsidiary offices. I have debated this with the Chamber a number of times, and I have kept the Chamber informed of developments. It is very clear: the moment the care stops, education remains the responsibility of the person who stops the care. They even have a statutory duty of care. It is necessary to ensure that the pupils concerned are able to take up education at another place or, if there is a different interpretation, that there is a very good transfer. We've been on top of that from the very beginning. When I say "we," I mean in particular the education inspection. I heard Mr Kwint say in his speech: why do people not move until it is too late? The education inspection was already working on the Hoenderloo College before even closure. Already in March 2019 there were very intensive courses with the Hoenderloo College, because the quality of the education given there was not in order. When later in that year it became clear that The Hoenderloo Group, and with that also the education, was going to stop, supervision was even intensified. The Hoenderloo College had to come up with a closure plan in which, in particular, the transfer of young people to another place, and thus the transfer of the duty of care they had, would be properly regulated. I am very grateful to the inspection for all the work that has been done. I will come back to that separately later. They have even gone beyond what we formally require from them through laws and regulations and orders. We have seen, by the way, that the transfer by Pluryn is not just the body that has the duty of care. Indeed, it was stated that we now have a good place for all young people, even when it comes to education. Let me concentrate on education; you will understand that, of course. The inspection found that this was not the case in the course of August. Not all young people had yet found a suitable place to follow up. This has led directly to further actions, including from the inspection. She was doing a very good job because people found out about this. This has led to recovery orders to Pluryn to ensure that that transfer would take place. There have been strong words spoken, also by me to the directors; I have informed your Chamber of that. It was also really about abandoning all the demands on good governance, because this was not in order and it had been said that it was in order. Finally, in the letter of 6 November, you will remember that in mid-October, to be precise, 16 October, the duty of care for the last young person was transferred to another institution where education was given. For some it has become daily consumption; a number have also flowed out according to labour. The last youngster had been officially transferred. The Hoenderloo Group formally ceased to exist on 1 October, but 15 October the last transfer took place. The Court is also aware that the transfer of this duty of care can only take place if parents or carers have agreed to it. This also applies to bonus parents, if they have that formal responsibility. It is very good that Mr De Neef also involved that last group. Without the consent of parents, carers, bonus parents or whatever we call them, there can be no one-sided transfer. That must always be done with agreement. So by mid-October, that's officially arranged for all students. I reported that to you in the letter of November 6th. Here's some 160 cases. Maybe it is also good to know that we have taken 1 January 2020 from Education as the "counting date'. So we're talking about a larger group, 238 students. That was the number of students enrolled at the Hoenderloo College at the time. Following the letter of 6 November, but also following the parliamentary questions put by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint on 9 November following that letter, I wrote to the Chamber on 7 December that the inspection had not ended at that time, but had indicated that it would look very closely at whether the pupils were really in the right place in November or December. Have they so to speak landed at the place which was also agreed upon and for which they had been chosen, including with the consent of parents or carers? The investigations carried out by the inspection in those months showed that this was the case. There was therefore no reason to assume at that time that the transfer had not gone well. I think it is good to make this very clear, also because of the very active attitude of the education inspector on this dossier. It was there before the closure of the Hoenderloo College. I also informed the Chamber that the inspection also gave clear repair orders to Pluryn. Those who know the file to the last point and comma also know that under Pluryn there was a kind of personal union of seven educational institutions. The Hoenderloo Group was one of them. That Hoenderloo Group had stopped. Another institution became independent, which has now also happened. And then there were some other educational institutions. Some of them are now simply "in business." So that's what Pluryn is responsible for. So we were also very concerned about the quality of the education offered there. Those recovery orders are running. You know that, because there are deadlines for that. In June, the first report will be sent to the Chamber. Then it can also be made public. You can then see that there is also very strict and robust supervision of the education and quality of education that is still being given under the responsibility of Pluryn. We also know that some of the students who attended Het Hoenderloo College ended up with the educational institutions that are covered by Pluryn. I would like to say once again that I am grateful to the inspection for the very active attitude it has shown in this respect. That's how I know and you know the inspection, by the way. I think it is also good to be aware of the following. This is a type of education linked to residential institutions, partly closed, partly open. We know that there is often a very high flow in that education. Sometimes students have been flowing within six months, but sometimes students are much longer. But the flow is high, so we shouldn't have the image that if Het Hoenderloo College had continued and The Hoenderloo Group had just continued to exist, all those involved would still be in that place. I don't think that would be reality. This must also be made particularly alert when such radical changes are taking place, which, of course, can be very profound especially for the young people concerned. And in the end it is about those young people; they should be at the centre. Madam President. This has also been the reason for the inspection to continue beyond December. In fact, after December, we had carried out all the commitments to the Chamber. In recent months, the inspection has asked very carefully to know exactly where all these students are now. Are they still in the same place? If that is not the case, then it is not illogical in itself, if you look at what often happens to those involved. Where did they end up? I have already been able to tell you in last Monday's letter that we actually have a very reasonable, good and accurate picture of what happened to these young people after that, when it comes to their education career. Of those 238, 33 of them have flowed into labour, as you know, to put it in those terms. I think that Mr Peters has rightly indicated that each person concerned is another person. Because there's a huge diversity in it. Of the remaining 205 students we know that about three quarters are still in the place where they were flown after Hoenderloo College. That is for the most part vso, while a part of it is in the mainstream. I believe that a little over 50 students have ended up in the MBO. 48 Students have eventually moved to another educational institution. Sometimes that had to do with moving. The inspection has questioned the reasons for this. The most mentioned were relocation, crisis placement or, if they were accompanied in a home situation and received education, insufficient guidance at home, making it necessary to take another step. There were also students who were initially thought to have found a suitable place for them, after which the place turned out not to be so appropriate, after which they continued searching. Nine pupils who have been a direct demand do not currently attend education. So they've become homeowners. I'm receiving my information anonymized. It has rightly been said that we are not really talking about individuals here. So we're receiving that information anonymized. A number of Members of Parliament have mentioned names, but you will understand once again, in view of all the restrictions on privacy attached to them, that we receive this information anonymized. But I can tell you why these nine students are at home. That is what our information provides, and that is what the inspection has been able to provide us with. One of the young people is wanted by the Justice Department. He's not even at home. We don't know where he is. He's on the run, so to speak. It happens. Let's hope someone like that gets back to a good place very quickly and gets good care and care, but that's just one of the nine. One of the young people is helped by a restart. So it's just for medical reasons, I'd say, disabled. There's a young man with a lot of absenteeism, so it didn't work out in that place. One is now working on a course to see if a suitable place can be found for this person, so that he can continue to follow his education career under guidance. There are a few students who are guided by compulsory schooling to an educational location, because they simply failed and came home. There are also the three students who did not use the offer, but where was chosen for a private form of education, namely the Wonderschool. Well, the Wonder School didn't work out so well. This school has now stopped, so these students have come home. But of course we have the responsibility to guide them back to a good place, and that is also just being worked on with a tempo and a way of working that fits the specific situation. You know that sometimes it can be very different. One student is ill for a long time, which just doesn't manage to go to school. And then there's another student who, as I'm told, the externalizing behavior of fellow students has become too much. Well, then you know that there were probably too many incentives in the environment where this student received education and that it didn't succeed. So we know quite specifically from those who are not currently in education what the reason is. We also know, apart from the one that is on the run, that care is provided by professionals around it to ensure that they receive education again. This goes very far when it comes to the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u210	I was wondering if you were going towards a finalisation of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u211	It's happening really fast. This goes very far when it comes to information we have received. I think this is important in the context of what we are talking about and how we have dealt with this dossier, with these young people, that it does happen in this way. I asked the inspection to continue to monitor closely the developments of these young people in the coming months. I promise you that at the time I give you the report on the repair assignment, we will make sure that an update can be given on their situation. I think it is very important to continue to follow this way. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few brief loose questions. Mrs Westerveld asked: are there enough places now, not only in terms of care, but also in terms of education? This question is very difficult to answer generically. In the end, it also depends on where the place is and what education the student concerned needs. It could very well be that in a certain place that education is very close if it is an open institution. If it is a closed institution, it must of course be taken care of at the institution itself. It depends on what the specific wishes are. Of course, a way is always sought to provide education in the immediate vicinity of where the person concerned is situated, which is also appropriate for the student concerned. What if there's a new location? This case was discussed at the end. Suppose there is a health care institution in that place, then education is really part of that. There is a legal obligation to agree on education. We did some research, because this is something that also came to our attention. We know that an agreement has been made by the healthcare provider who wants to provide care with the partnership, but it has not yet become more than an agreement. We'll keep an eye on that. If there is no education arranged, it simply cannot go on. The other way around is: if you're going to quit, you have to make sure that education is properly transferred. That is a very important provision. Where can parents go? They have agreed, but it may well be that the menu was not too big. Let us also be very open about that, especially if you have to make a choice in a particular environment. Where can parents go if they don't agree? They're not obliged to agree. If they do not agree, they obviously have the opportunity at the school and the institution to raise that. There are also legal provisions for there to be room for this and for there to be people to whom they can report. We know this isn't always easy for them to do. They can also report to the inspection. There's a parenting point. I've made enquiries: no reports have been received there. In addition, one can call on the care-education consultant to get support in finding a good place. You also know that we are arranging for this to be well arranged in all the partnerships and that there will also be a parent and a student reporting point. In all kinds of ways, we try to break thresholds there. The ultimate thing that can be done is to enter into arbitration. Of course, that's something you don't like. It is therefore possible to report to the Committee on Disputes for this purpose. But that's really the limit you'd want, and that's what you'd rather not. Mr. Chairman. Mr Raemakers asked how the Minister looked at the right to education. I can tell him that on the day of Mrs Westerveld's birthday and by chance also that of my twin sister here in the Chamber, the evaluation of appropriate education was discussed. Point 1 of the 25 point plan was that the right to education will be regulated in the law. We're working very actively on that. You can find all the details in it. Otherwise, I think your educational spokesperson has some knowledge of that. Mr. Chairman. These were the separate questions that lie with me and the answer to the teaching part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u212	I thank the Minister very much and look at Mr Kwint, who has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u213	One of my questions is about cooperation and communication between inspections. It is true that I am there positive, or slightly less negative, perhaps that a better explanation is that we have been proactively told about the part of education: boys, things were not right here. The inspection has made that known. Now you might think that if a healthcare provider fails to fulfil his legal task, even in a turbulent time, with closures and the like, if things go wrong in one area, there is a considerable chance that things will go wrong in another. In the meantime, I think we can all see that this was indeed the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u214	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u215	How is such a route coordinated between the various inspections? Is that what's happening? And maybe that's better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u216	When it comes to education, I really think that the inspection has simply done an excellent job. They have followed it very proactively and have even continued to follow it, even at the time when, given their legal task, they could actually say: if we have a follow-up later, we'll see what it's like. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In that respect, I think that this is even a very good example of how it can be done. You will also understand that, especially when it comes to the connection of education to residential care, all the sentiments are not with us, including me. I understand very well what VWS is doing and what Mr Peters' questions on small scale were aimed at. I also understand that you want to try not to have too much closed care. But the moment the care is opened, education should be regulated. We have noticed too often over the past few years, and I have called on the minister of this Secretary of State to do so a few times. The inspection has its role in this too. We've made a deal about that, too. We do not want that to happen, and we do not want to burden the partnerships unnecessarily with a very large group of young people for whom funding is not properly regulated, as happened in the Gelderland Valley. You'll be seeing each other again. We must therefore continue to follow this very closely. The inspection's doing a good job. The education inspection also works closely with the IGJ, the health inspection. In particular, around the closure, it was very clearly taken up together. In that respect, I think that this is an example of how you should actually do it, including in other situations, because it can also happen in another place in the country. We really need to avoid that with each other, for the sake of those young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u217	I thank the Minister. I still see Mr Kwint standing, so I have the impression that you are assuming that you still have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u218	Sounds like you're on another assumption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u219	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u220	I'll save it for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u221	Thank you. I thank the Minister once again. I note that all the questions that have been asked have been properly answered. We're moving on to the second term right now. I'm sorry I can't give you a break. At the same time, I can say that this is, of course, because you wanted to do this debate extensively. It means that for the second term there is 1 minute 20 to submit a motion or to ask or say something. I give the floor to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u222	Finding a suitable, sustainable place turned out to be a lot more complicated in practice than we have been for a long time, and also more complicated than the cabinet has been for a long time. It may not be such a good idea to have a party that has conflicting interests first report on the progress of such a project. Eventually, the SP is afraid that Pluryn's real estate interests have been decisive here. Then we'll talk about the evaluation. I am pleased that Secretary of State Blokhuis announces that families will be called. I really think that's very important. I think we're gonna need something extra. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that despite promises made, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether all young people have now been given the appropriate place promised;]] [[calls on the government, in the context of the evaluation, to call and ask all young people who had to go somewhere else through the closure of De Hoenderloo Group and if they are in place, and if this is not the case, to arrange this as soon as possible, and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr Westerveld, Mr Chicken and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u223	Oh, yeah! I'm just getting used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u224	It's a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u225	I've been annoyed for four years by the fact that it had to be said every time, but now that it doesn't happen anymore, I kind of miss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u226	You read the motion, and I suggest you proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u227	One more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the transfer to the municipalities of complex specialist youth care services, such as De Hoenderloo Group, has caused major problems;]] [[calls on the Government to organise regionally specialised youth care, youth protection and youth rehabilitation under the direction and funding of the Empire,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-399]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u228	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the International Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children's interests must be paramount when decisions are taken on them;]] [[Whereas children's and parents' rights are minimal when institutions are closed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to better safeguard the rights of parents and children;]] [[invites the Government also to establish an independent substantive expert who, together with the provider, assesses the appropriateness of the offer in the decision-making process surrounding the closure of a youth care institution with residence or a reorganisation in order to safeguard the interests of children and parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-400]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u229	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that approximately 400 employees had not been heard prior to the decision to close youth care institution De Hoenderloo Groep;]] [[Whereas this decision has a far-reaching impact on both young people, parents and employees;]] [[considers that youth workers should be heard early for important decision-making;]] [[calls on the Government to grant the right of consent of youth workers to mergers and the closure of departments or institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u230	I've filed this motion before. It did not make it then, but I think this debate simply shows how important it is for employees to have more rights when it comes to closing youth care institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u231	I thank Mrs Westerveld for her input and look at Mrs Maeijer for her input on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mr President, thank you. In the event of interruption, I already expressed my surprise at the lack of active attitude of the cabinet following the closure of the Hoenderloo Group, while a firm promise was made that no one would fall apart. I also call on the Secretary of State on behalf of my group in the first term to take the lead to find out if a suitable and sustainable place has been found for every child from De Hoenderloo Groep. I had a motion with me, but I understand the Secretary of State is now having that role taken up by the Youth Support Team. That's good. I would very much like to know at what time something is going to happen and at what time we can expect something back from the Secretary of State here in the Chamber. He talked about a phone call first. After that, I think the Secretary of State called it "an investigation." So what exactly is going to happen and is he going to personally ensure that this is taken up quickly and that there is also rapid follow-up to what emerges from it? Because this should not be a long project eight months after the closure. We simply need a solution in the short term for young people who have not yet found a suitable and sustainable place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u233	I thank Mrs Maeijer for her input and look at Mr De Neef, who will make his contribution on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u234	Mr President, thank you very much. I don't have any motions. I've written hard and I've listened very carefully. I would like to thank the Cabinet for answering the questions. I would also like to thank all my colleagues in the Chamber for their understanding of this matter. I would just like to express the wish from here on with all of you to start a good cooperation for the coming period. And thank you very much for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u235	Thank you to Mr De Neef. I'm looking at Mrs. Chicken. No? Then I give the floor to Mr Raemakers, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u236	Thank you, Mr President. In December 2019, Pluryn decided that De Hoenderloo Groep would be closed. Minister Hugo de Jonge, then managing director and portfolio holder, made a promise in this area, namely that no child would fall between shore and ship. Today we have debated whether it has come out, because the picture is that there are a lot of young people not in a good place. As D66 we welcome the fact that Secretary of State Blokhuis has made it very clear that not all young people have progressed. He's been very honest about that, too. He has also indicated that the system with those signals from parents, which we received reports from, may not have worked quite well. We very much welcome the fact that the Youth Support Team is now taking stock of what can be done to make this treatment more appropriate for each of the families and young people. A more active attitude is therefore going to be adopted. We as D66 consider it very important that we learn from the past, so that we really learn from it. Certainly things have gone wrong in this dossier, but we also see a government and two rulers who are now going to work on it. Our question is still: how will Secretary of State Blokhuis inform the House of Parliament about the progress of the Youth Care Support Team? Can we make an agreement on this, for example that a progress letter is sent every two or three weeks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u237	I would like to thank Mr Raemakers, who spoke on behalf of D66, and look at Mr Peters, who asked for his input. He will do so on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, both co-signed by Mrs Kuik of the Labour Party. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that after the closure of the Hoenderloo Group, no suitable shelter was found for a number of children;]] [[Whereas these children can be helped earlier and better if an analysis is made of how the problems of these children have arisen;]] [[Whereas a national survey on "chain-wide learning" is currently under way, analysing youth assistance pathways for young people receiving intensive specialist assistance, in order to improve youth assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how these children can be helped earlier and better (from now on) and to join the "chain-wide learning" research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is better for most children to receive assistance close to home in a small-scale facility, such as a family home;]] [[Whereas there is a lack of an overview of the number of small-scale facilities and family homes;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the number of small-scale youth assistance facilities and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-402]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-403]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u239	I would like to thank Mr Peters, who spoke on behalf of the CDA Group, and look at Mr Ceder, who will make his contribution on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank the Cabinet for the answers. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas parents and young people only share their experiences and criticisms of youth care with bodies if they are familiar and safe with them;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, the closure of De Hoenderloo Group reveals that bad experiences of parents are not always known to the IGJ or the Ministry;]] [[Calls on the Government to launch an exploratory study into experienced security in order to report to the IGJ for the effectiveness of the IGJ reporting capability;]] [[invites the government to work on improving this security in a low level of experience by talking to the IGJ about the possibility of reporting anonymously, as well as engaging with client supporters and the AKJ on enhancing this security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-404]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u242	I thank Mr Ceder for his contribution on behalf of the Christian Union. I am now looking at Mr Van der Staaij, who will make his contribution to the second term on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While Mr Ceder was speaking, I realized that it was a special moment: a ChristianUnion Chamberlain held his maiden speech under the watchful eye of two rulers of the Christian Union House. I've been through a lot in this Chamber, but I don't think I have. Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. In the circumstances, in which many things have not gone well, I found that to be a firm and convincing answer. I see that there is a willingness to learn from the past and to see how we can prevent debates like this. Because we should not really want us to have to discuss exactly how things are going at an institution level. The system should be structured in such a way that signals are picked up much earlier and come to a solution. Mr President, I have one final question or comment on this. The Secretary of State has promised that the evaluation will also look at the complaints that could be lodged with different bodies, and why this did not happen, and at the maze that appears to exist. He said, "We'll take that with us." I would also like to draw particular attention to the fact that in many cases it can help if parents and young people can expect support in their search rather than formal complaints. I think that is often a threshold in any case. Perhaps this aspect can also be taken into account in the evaluation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u244	I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij for his contribution on behalf of the SGP Group. I'm looking at Mrs Simons to see if she has a wish for the second term. She does. I myself come to the conclusion that this is the first time that I have been chairing a debate with two Christian Union executives. I do not comment on the experience I have with that. However, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Simons, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's see. It feels a bit like the rulers are picking up the shards of Hugo de Jonge. We have two motions. I cannot completely escape the impression that there was only one goal to be achieved, and that holding Pluryn was the maintenance of Pluryn. But maybe that discussion has already been done. I shall come back to the Youth Jump, in which the prospects of those directly concerned have been taken into account. In this context, I have two motions for resolutions, because the recommendations of the Youth Jump are full of vision and practical plans. A striking quote that struck me in this was: in our opinion, there is no need for further argument that the purchase and sale of children in distress does not fit in with a social civilisation along the bar of politics, competition and money. I think we all agree on that. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas youth care is in crisis and is not faced with occasional problems, but with structural problems;]] [[noting the need for a change of direction for the future of youth care;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to make a serious assessment of the Youth Journey's opinion on its content and to examine the possibilities for implementing this policy direction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-405]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u246	Then there is another motion concerning an announced independent investigation. We hope it will be an action study led by someone remote from politics, knowledge of the complex sector and experience in youth care. The motion is: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas lessons must be learned from the progress of the Hoenderloo Group which can contribute to policy adjustment;]] [[calls on the government to allow the announced independent investigation to take place in the very short term, in the outcome of the research (ex-) clients and professionals, and not people with political interests, to be in charge, and to then turn the lessons into adjustments to youth care policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons, Mr Westerveld, Mr Chicken and Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-406]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u247	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Because we reversed the order of speakers this morning, I think it is nice to close the line now too. I would like to thank the rulers for their answers. I would also like to thank Mr Blokhuis for saying: no, not everything has gone well, taking into account the knowledge of today. Maybe it was the same with the knowledge of the past, but let's stay out of it now. He apologized for that. I think that's important to the parents. You always have a choice: do you or do you not take care? In addition, there is no "own debt, big lump" approach. We also see that not all children are well arranged. Mr Slob made that very specific in his own words. A number of children really need further help or good education. For example, therapy has not yet started everywhere. I think it is a good thing that we are following these children very specifically. I look forward very much to the letter that Secretary of State Blokhuis is expected to send to us this week. The agreements he makes with municipalities about extra budget and direction on complex care are, I think, really necessary to better regulate what has not gone well now and to prevent it in the future. Then we really hold every child and then we don't drop the children, but we offer them the care, help and support they need. I've co-signed a number of motions. They speak for themselves. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And a "congratulations" to the new colleagues who made their maiden speech: Mr Ceder and Mr De Neef.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u248	I would like to thank Mrs Kuik for her contribution on behalf of the PvdA Group. I understand that the directors want a five-minute suspension in order to be able to assess the motions. So five minutes, it is. So I'm gonna suspend the meeting and I'll see you guys later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u249	I note that the Secretary of State and the Minister are again present, and that means that they are going to respond to the motions tabled. I give the floor to Secretary of State Blokhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u250	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the contributions of the Members of Parliament, even in the second term. I think we have had an interesting debate. And there are also a number of statements before the Chamber, which I would like to respond to on behalf of the cabinet. I say on all nine motions tabled that we read them in such a way that they all relate to the care. So I'm also gonna give the answer as a responsible executive for youth care. And so there are these nine motions, and I would like to comment on a comment by Mr Van der Staaij. Let's start with the motions. Motion number one, in part no. 398 by Mr Kwint and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on: I believe that what is stated here in this motion is perfectly in line with what I have promised. We used to say that that is an unnecessary motion. For I also read it in such a way that we really are, and as far as I am concerned, a strong hand-off from the cabinet, and I think it is necessary, I say to all the parents and children, to all those children who were being treated at the time of the closure and therefore had to go to a follow-up place, to do an investigation. We're gonna call them, or in any way; I think that's a derivative question. But we're gonna get a visual on that as soon as possible. If I may read it in this way, and I think that is also in line with what I said in the first term, then, as far as I am concerned, the Court of Justice is the qualification that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u251	I see that Mr Kwint is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u252	Yes, with the risk, of course, of killing a brilliantly positive pre-advisation. There's still something extra in that motion. It also says: if that is not appropriate, we are going to arrange a place very quickly. If the cabinet considers that feasible, then I am very happy and count my blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u253	I think that Mr Kwint is right to address this point. However, I particularly referred to the scope of the investigation, and with that remark I say: motion for a resolution on the Court of Justice. But, of course, if you take step a, "image it," and if there are any bottlenecks, you have to get all hands on deck, with all the key actors who have a job in it, and then we will do our best to offer those children an appropriate offer as soon as possible. And "appropriate" of which this House of Representatives also says: yes, that is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u254	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State and suggest that we do get a ruling on every motion. Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u255	Yes. I am saying before any misunderstandings arise about this, but that will be understood by Mr Kwint like no other. This does not mean that, if we have that in mind, we will have the solution for those children tomorrow, but we will see it as a very important responsibility to get this right and as quickly as possible. Mr Kwint's second motion, tabled together with Mrs Westerveld, to item No. 399, which goes very far, namely: removing specialist assistance from municipalities and regions, and bringing it to the Empire. This is a broader question, but I also said it in my first term: it is for a new cabinet, and we are not going to take a decision on it. I think... No, I don't think so; so I'm going to discourage that motion. Motion three by the ladies Westerveld and Simons, in part No. 400, is about calling in an independent expert in terms of content if new offers are to be sought for children. I'd like to give that motion the qualifying Chamber. That is not the case with the next motion, which is in part No. 401. I would advise against this, because it calls for consent to be granted to the employees concerned in the event of a merger. Well, that's pretty far, 'cause that's a lot more touching. And now there's an advisory right. I cannot stress enough that it is very important for youth aid institutions which have fusion plans to fully involve and take their employees very seriously, and that this is also translated into an advisory right of the or. Right of assent goes one step further, and that has a much wider scope. That's why I didn't recommend it. Motion five, in part no. 402, about Ketenbreed Leren. I think I have already said something positive about this. I do not see Mr Peters, but I am sure he will be pleased to read later in the Acts that I would like to give this Chamber's judgment as an appreciation. That motion was also tabled by Mrs Kuik. For the motion in part No. 403, on small-scale facilities, the same applies: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 404, by Mr Ceder and Mrs Westerveld, I find a very sympathetic motion. I appointed that safety myself in my first term. It is also widely shared in the Chamber. Only, in one recital, no, in the first part of the operative part, "calls on the government to launch an exploratory investigation into experienced security"... If the Chamber does not mind, I do not want to put everything very heavily into investigations. I'd like that question on the table. I think it comes up because of the action that we want to have done by the Youth Support Team. If they are going to call people, I want them to explicitly raise the following question: have you experienced safety? If I may read the motion in such a way that the investigation is involved, that is acceptable. Then it won't be a very heavy extra investigation. As far as I'm concerned, I can give her judgment room. Unfortunately, Mr Ceder is not in the Chamber right now. I hope he can live with judgment Chamber, with this explanation of mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u256	I think that's fine. If the petitioner thinks otherwise, so be it. It'll be filed like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u257	Or we'll be in touch before the vote. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u258	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u259	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 405, from the ladies Simons and Chicken. I think I have already responded positively to... I do not see several petitioners in the Chamber. That's kind of interesting. Yes, Mrs. Chicken does. I've already reacted positively, and I will continue to do so. We used to say that it was superfluous and then it was even dissuaded. But nowadays "unneeded" judgment is Chamber. So a positive appreciation. I can see that Mrs. Kuiken has something to say about it. Well, judge Chamber, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u260	I think Mrs. Kuiken would like to thank you. No, what are you trying to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u261	Mrs Simons is still new in the youth care field. We just want to mark this. I understand that there is a commitment, but I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u262	That's good, thank you. The last motion is that in part No. 406. We cannot say often enough that this investigation must be independent. This should not be done by people with political interests in the results of the research, as Mrs Simons cum suis as proposers say. That's how we want to set it up. The investigation takes place from the municipalities and the provider. I'm taking the lessons learned into policy, of course. So also judge Chamber as a qualification for this motion. Then I'm almost done with my second term. I should like to add my voice to what Mr Van der Staaij said. He says that we are only talking about parents who have complaints when evil has happened and then say: my child is in a very wrong place. That's a little damage control. He says, "Now go out front and support parents so you can come to a good place together." That wasn't said to deaf ears. In my view, it really must be the starting point of policy for parents to be fully involved in the front. In that respect, the De-Hoenderloo Group story has taught us how not to do it sometimes, with a lot of parents, but also with a few not. So we learned lessons, "gelearnd." No, sorry, now it's almost over and I'm totally screwing up. We have learned lessons; let me just do it in Dutch. We're here in Holland. We've learned lessons. I would like to underline Mr Van der Staaij's comment. I'm done with my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u263	I see Mr Raemakers waving at me. That is probably the reason why he wants to make another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u264	Certainly, because I had not tabled a motion in my second term, but asked a question, namely: what is the intention of the Secretary of State to inform us about progress on the Youth Support Team?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u265	It's almost a tradition that we have to inform the Chamber twice a week. Please, let's stay away from that. I solemnly promise the Chamber that I will inform the Chamber adequately. This request will soon get hands and feet. This will then be translated into execution. I solemnly promise the Chamber that I will inform the Chamber accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u266	I note that this has ended the debate on the young people who have been the victims of the closure of the Hoenderloo Group. The Chamber has spoken extensively. That is why we have come to the end of the discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u267	Voting on the motions tabled will take place after the May part-session. I just think this is gonna be on a Tuesday. After the suspension we immediately begin with the swearing-in of Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts of D66.
