ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	We shall now proceed with the debate on the General Political Reviews. I'm giving the floor to the Prime Minister again. According to my card, the theme is now climate and energy. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	That is right, Mr President, including agriculture, nitrogen and nuclear energy. I come straight to the question that has been asked about what the Millions Note says about this. Actually, the Millions Note outlines the urgency, the incredibly great need to intervene in this. It says "Of course that's not new, but it is in this way very firmly placed that if we continue on the current road, we will end up with a warm-up of at least 3 ̊C. That warming would lead to catastrophic consequences for our world. If you put that in the perspective of history: the difference in temperature between the last ice age and now is 5 ̊C. This would be a warm-up of at least 3 C. This really is a huge threat to people around the world, both in weather and climate, as well as in the impact it would have on sea level rise and thus on areas that are low, such as islands but also countries such as Bangladesh and the Netherlands. In other words, this needs to be addressed. This means that it is an en-en policy for the cabinet, where we do not realize everything. I'm just gonna say it right away. It's not like we're solving everything with the plans here. There's gonna have to be more. What we need to solve is the Urgendavonnis. What we need to solve is the 49% target and then the 55% target. So first the hole to the 49 and then to the 55. Climate-neutral, building a green hydrogen economy and I shall come back to the issue of nitrogen separately. That was also one of the questions: can you solve the problem with the 6.8 billion? With this package of nearly 7 billion, the cabinet is taking a further necessary step on top of the existing policy, but I would like to add that it is not enough. There's really gonna have to be more. This means that later this year we need to see whether we can expand the budget further on this point. The KEV is coming. At the end of October, it will be sent to the Chamber at the same time as the climate note. It also mentions exactly what is the emission reduction achieved by the policy adopted on 1 May and the so-called "ascended' policy that was adopted in the summer. In addition, the Plan Bureau for the Environment will reflect on the additional reduction effect on the basis of the information available. The aim is ultimately to gather as much relevant information as possible for the budget handling of Economic Affairs and Climate at the beginning of November. In this context, I endorse Mrs Ploumen's call for climate change to be described as one of the most important and pressing problems of the present. We cannot afford to postpone this further or delay it further. I will talk about this in New York tomorrow at the United Nations. I spoke to Johnson about this in detail last week. As you know, England is the captain of COP26 in Glasgow at the beginning of November. Of course, this also affects the implementation of the Urgendavonnis, but also the 2030 targets. I'll just say it again for anyone who asks: is this enough? No, this isn't enough. Additional decision-making will have to take place at the top of the package that is now in place. A few more specific questions were, for example, about abolishing fossil subsidies. In the climate agreement, we have already greatly increased the ODE burden on companies. You know that in the past, households and companies both contributed half of the revenue. That is now a third for households and two thirds for businesses. Of course, it is important that it remains feasible for households to do so in the future in terms of affordability. And, of course, it is also important in the polluter pays principle that the international competitiveness of our companies is taken into account. This means that tariffs far above those in our neighbouring countries entail the risk of carbon leakage and employment. Everything is aimed at ensuring that also the eleven largest polluters in the Netherlands, including Shell, Yara, SABIC, Dow and of course Tata Steel, stay here, that they get clean and that they can produce the stuff they produce in a clean way, also to prevent those jobs from leaving and that those CO emissions will take place elsewhere. A working guarantee fund was requested. A general working guarantee fund seems too broad to us. However, in specific cases, we need to look at how workers can be supported if their work fails. I think that cooperation between coal-fired power stations is a good example of this. There, the cabinet provides further support to employees, in addition to the existing instruments. That's what the cabinet's going to do by setting up a coal fund. The cabinet works closely with the trade unions, among others. Let's take a specific look at the Urgendavonnis. If you look at this, you will find that the provisional figures of the CBS for 2020 show that the 25% is likely to be met. This is, of course, due to the sharp decline in traffic and industrial production, partly due to corona. Last week, the preliminary figures of the CBS and RIVM showed that emissions increased again in the first half of 2021. In the short term, measures aimed at reducing CO2 emissions from coal plants will enter into force. They will also provide a substantial additional reduction in the coming years. Despite this, however, there is still uncertainty, and I would like to say this very openly here about CO2 emissions in the coming years. It will also fluctuate, for example depending on the weather, hot or cold winters, and of course also the developments in fuel and CO2 prices. So there are also a lot of factors that work on that. That is why the cabinet in the Millions Note has taken additional measures.. I am not going to list them all, you have seen them............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This will also bring about an additional reduction in emissions in the coming years, which will contribute to the execution of the judgment. In climate and energy exploration 2021, the KEV, this autumn, a new estimate of expected emissions will follow between 2021 and beyond. At the beginning of 2023, we will know the final emissions in 2021. Then the question was: we expect a lot of citizens in the climate transition, but are we not left behind? Specific questions were asked about Lelystad and about the broadening of A27 Ring Utrecht at Amelisweerd. On both subjects, I would like to say that the Court has declared them controversial. Therefore, this outgoing cabinet will not make any decisions on these two issues, Lelystad airport and the widening of Amelisweerd airport. May's statement, Olympic champions become climate: yes, that's mine and our ambition. That also affects the loss of biodiversity, I say immediately. These, in connection with climate change, are, of course, the major global issues at the moment. So they are also high on the agenda. The same applies, in addition to climate, to the wider issue of not only biodiversity, but also nature and biodiversity. By means of a package of measures, I will get back to that in the case of nitrogen, it is the intention to invest also in nature recovery. But we are far from there on both questions. Much more will have to be done. And if I just said here that I assume that there will be a formation soon and if not, that we, as the Chamber and the Cabinet, will have to look at how we can add to the 2022 budget, it will also touch on these elements. Preferably, if you ask me, I would say: let us therefore decide to reserve a very large amount, so that you can also cover this problem in the financial sense for a number of years ahead. The question has also been asked why I, so Rutte, release the ambition to limit warming to 1.5 degrees. It certainly isn't. We have signed and ratified the Paris Agreement to limit the warming to well below 2 degrees and, if possible, to 1.5 degrees. In order to achieve this objective, all countries that have committed themselves to the Paris Agreement should strengthen their NDCs, i.e. their Nationally Determined Contributions. Europe has done so by increasing to 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. This also requires the Netherlands to accelerate the rate of reduction in the coming years. So either a next cabinet or this cabinet, if it is not there in time, will have to work with the Chamber to adjust the budget. I like the climate initiative of the municipality of Amsterdam. Can I put that briefly? It is important that where citizens are specifically affected by climate change measures, they are involved in policy making and implementation in their municipalities. So that's what I'd like to say. Then there are subsidies for fossil industry and biomass. I've already said something about it. As far as biomass is concerned, we want to phase it out. Too soon phasing out subsidies for renewable biomass for lower temperature heat makes achieving 49% very complicated. This means that low-grade applications, such as the use of woody biomass for low temperature heat, will be more discussion and also greater societal concerns. We must do justice to those concerns. There is also an ESC opinion on this, which says that low-quality applications should be phased out. But once again, the climate will not benefit if we ban biofuels if there are not yet affordable alternatives. So in the coming years, it will be a very difficult balance of how we proceed with that biomass. I just said something about fossil fuels. Dan CCS. That is, I say, a transitional technology. We must not, of course, put all the successes and hopes on that in the long term, but in the transitional period you need it. It will take time for those large polluting industries to shape their production in a green way. This cannot be achieved in the very short term. In the meantime, you'll need CCS. This is cost-effective and can really contribute to the CO reduction in a relatively short time, well before 2030. With the PBL, the Planning Office for the Environment, we are now also looking at the price per tonne of saved CONogmaals at every opening-up of the SDE++ scheme by technique, then CCS is cost-effective, but it can only be done as a transitional technique. For the long term, we can't build our luck on that. Mr. Chairman. I will be on agriculture in a moment and I will be on nitrogen separately. In my view, these are all the questions that have been asked about climate, but may I conclude by saying the following? I am really convinced that if we, the Netherlands, pick this up, we must be prepared to reserve that money for that purpose. That's almost 7 billion now, but I think it's about tens of billions if you really want to solve it all structuralally towards 2030, 2035 with a perspective on 2050. I think it is possible in financial terms, but that will have to be discussed at the formation or else here in the Chamber. Then we can do two things. We can ensure that the Netherlands takes the lead in reducing CO emissions, and at the same time we can lead the way in everything behind it in terms of innovation and building a modern economy. I feel that urgency, too. I notice from many other parties in the Chamber, from GroenLinks to VVD, that we want to do so in a way where the Dutchman....... does not have the feeling that personal life has to change dramatically and that suddenly nothing can happen anymore. It'll have an impact on everyone. Let us not give the impression here that it can be done without any consequences in people's private lives. But I think that we can limit these consequences enormously, also because of the excellent state of our economy and public finances. Once again, these are decisions of a much larger size than this budget we then have to take, hopefully in the context of a cabinet formation. And indeed, I insist that the Netherlands is already the best performing economy in the western world, but that the Netherlands can be number one in the western world in reducing CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First, Mr Eerdmans, then Mr Klaver, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Haga. First of all, Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	You say: Alarm Phase 1; the world warms up by 3 degrees with all the consequences of that. Do you realize that, however you think about the climate, its warming and the question of who caused it, the contribution of the Netherlands to the phenomenon of world temperature is very limited and minimal? On the other hand, we fill our country with billions of taxpayers' money with solar fields, wind turbines and heat pumps, and we push people off the gas and into electric cars. In short, if the price is not terribly high for taxpayers, then I also appeal to you as a VVD Prime Minister for that minimal effect on that problem? That effect from the Netherlands is 0.005. Do you see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Netherlands is roughly responsible for half a percent of global CO emissions. Of course Mr Eerdmans is right when he says: is that it? But that makes us the 17th economy of the world. If we do not make our contribution, others do not. In addition, I am convinced that, apart from the enormous effects on what other countries are doing, on the climate transition and energy transition, it will have far-reaching consequences for the country's modernity if we do not go along with this. Are we still a country that can compete in the world, which leads the way, which invests massively in innovation? For the Netherlands, this could be what the defence sector is in Israel and America, which is such a driver of innovation and economic growth that you will see in the Netherlands, in conjunction with nitrogen, a massive conversion of the country. We are going to have a very big transition in the coming years, but in a way that the people who live here can also experience it. There was always the problem: how do you ensure that people can experience it and that it does not lead to far-reaching consequences for personal disposable income? I say to Mr Eerdmans: please join in. I notice that Mr Eerdmans has a bit of a doubt: should we or should we not be in the Forum corner? I don't think that's JA21. My challenge to Eerdmans is as follows. I listened very carefully to his speech yesterday. I know him as a young politician, a former alderman of Rotterdam, as someone who ultimately embraces change. I think we should do that with each other. We should not do this in a naive or idiotic way, but in a sensible way. And you can. Then we can really put this country back together again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	I'm a climate realist. I think we should adapt to the climate, but we should not change the climate. We can't do that. That's my argument. You will answer my question, but not my question. My question was: isn't this a minimal effect that we strive for and can achieve with maximum use of our taxpayers' money? You're always very tough about that as Prime Minister. You say that's taxpayers' money, and we have to watch our dime. But now it's going to be in a green grabbelton and I'm sure we're going to regret it, because the effect is minimal. You say: with all kinds of innovations. Anyone can live with innovations, I guess. We'll also have to raise the dikes. I think that's true, because I do think there's something coming at us. But the big question is: what amount should we spend and what costs will the taxpayer make for this? And then we haven't talked about nuclear power. I hope you'll take that with you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	You will. Because that's an investment, too. I am willing to make investments, but they must be useful and not at the expense of the effect you are aiming for. You have to look at this problem as a company. What do I put in it and what do I get out of it? You are going to make a speech tomorrow, and I have the impression that this is going to be another symbol story, in the sense of: we must be at the front. Why do we have to be at the front? We're actually embarrassed when you look at the money we're throwing in here and the effect that that's gonna have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	If you had any doubts about global warming... I do not hear Mr Eerdmans doing that. He says, "I'm a climate realist." He does not say: I doubt the reports of the climate panel and so on. So I assume he'll accept that horrible reality, too. We are the land of Brainport Eindhoven, of Foodvalley, of Health Valley and of the knowledge and innovation clusters around Enschede, Zwolle, Groningen and Maastricht. Europe is looking at us jealously. The region around Eindhoven is perhaps by far the most successful of all these clusters. There is only one region in Europe that can compete with that, and that is Grenoble in France. This means that we have an awful lot to do this, but at the same time we have a problem with public investment in research and development. This leads to very large additional, including public, investments in R&D and infrastructure. They are going to help us in this, apart from solving the CO issue, which in itself I think is enough reason to do all of this. Mr Eerdmans also mentioned the dikes. In addition to mitigation, adaptation will be a very large theme. I'll talk to Sheikh Hasina, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, tomorrow. That country, our own islands in the Caribbean and the entire biotope of islands and countries in the Pacific Ocean are at enormous risk of gradually being flooded. The Netherlands is considered to be the very best in the world to prevent this. This also applies to the large deltas where we help, in Vietnam and Indonesia, around Jakarta, and to countries in Europe. There are so many huge opportunities in our knowledge and in our history, in who we are. In addition to mitigation, a great deal will have to be done in the field of adaptation. It is right that Eerdmans calls that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	Finally, Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	I think we've heard part of the speech you're going to make now. It'll go this way. But even if all the countries that are members of the Paris Agreement meet their goals, it is still very, very much the question of whether this is going to be possible, then the effect on world temperature is still minimal. So put that money into the adaptation to that problem, such as raising the dikes and water management. That's fine. If people willingly want to put a solar panel on their roof, that's totally fine. When people get in an electric car, it's what they have to do. But don't think that with all kinds of coercive measures... That is basically what we want to do, because we want to fill the whole country with wind turbines. That's the line of this cabinet. People are hoping for that. They find them ugly and horizon pollution. Those things are also bad for the climate, because they are no longer degradable. There are ugly large concrete colossals all over the country. Why don't you go to Flevoland? When you get in there, you're just freaked out by the concrete poles. In fact, I thought that's what the environmental movement thought. In short, what are we doing to this country for that effect? That's my big question. You start again about Eindhoven and innovations. Fine at your service, that's no problem at all. I'm talking about the tax dollars and the effect we're achieving.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	Of course. Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver. Or no, Mrs Ploumen. Do you also speak on behalf of Mr Klaver? Yes. Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	Red alert calls for investment, for the creation of support, but also for political perseverance. Climate emergency has been declared in many countries. That sounds alarming, but the situation is also alarming. The proposal of the Labour Party and GroenLinks is to declare the climate emergency for the Netherlands as well, because it gives the minister responsible for climate matters the space, the perseverance and the position to do what is necessary. I haven't heard from the outgoing Prime Minister about that. I assume he will support that if he also sounds the alarm clock, unfortunately rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u15	No, I don't support that myself. That should be part of the conversations. I do not support that, because I think we are able to take the necessary measures together in the existing democratic decision-making structure that we have. I'm optimistic about that. That is what Mrs Hermans said yesterday in her term. I feel a huge support base in the Netherlands, also here in politics. Mr Eerdmans is even beginning to join. I can see a huge support for doing this. I find it difficult to relate the effects of a climate emergency situation and of the perseverance that this gives to our democratic decision-making tradition. So I don't think it's necessary. With the support that there is, I sincerely believe that it can be done without that state of emergency and with the existing climate law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u16	The beauty of a state of emergency is that you can revoke it when you reach the targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u17	It rarely happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u18	I hope that there will be a moment when we can do so, because then we have done enough to prevent this disaster for our children and grandchildren. In recent years, it has been a difficult process for the cabinet to do what is necessary. It took a judge's verdict. I would say: Demissionary Prime Minister, did you not learn any lessons from that? Now look for other possibilities to ensure that what needs to be done is done for the coming years. Once again, such a climate emergency situation with perseverance within the democratic frameworks, we agree that it will help to give the urgency not only to the people in the country, but also to a cabinet the position that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u19	I respect that view. I think we are underestimating the acceptance that we are now doing what is necessary and that we are underestimating the financial margin available over the next few years to do it financially. Something really unique is coming together in that respect. I predict that this will be a renovation of the Netherlands, as we saw it after the war with the Marshall Plan and as we saw it with Mansholt in the 1960s and 1970s. This will be the third major renovation of the Netherlands in post-war history. There is enormous support for the combination of the climate problem and the major problem of nitrogen. There is a unique fact that there is not only urgency and support, but also money for the coming years. It is also a question of formation and division, but I think there is room for that. Then I think it's too soon. I don't rule out ever having to do it, but I don't think it's necessary right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u21	Finally. Another point raised by the outgoing Prime Minister in response to what I asked him, I believe, is the working guarantee fund. It's true, it's going to be a huge task. Some people in the Netherlands will be able to do that whistling. For other people, life will change completely. Think of people who are now working in an industry which is polluting and which will not be able to go on in the same way, or perhaps even have to be closed down. My plea is, especially in view of all the money that is available: make sure that there is a job guarantee for people in advance, should they lose their jobs there. A good example is indeed that coal guarantee fund. I think this is very important for the support base, but also for the security of people if there is to be a broader working guarantee fund, so that people feel safe and secure enough in that transition. I would like to ask the Prime Minister once again: think there... No, do that and don't think about it for long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u22	Let's keep thinking about that for a while. I think we can also draw lessons from what we are doing about the coal power stations. Our first analysis is that such a broad working guarantee fund can eventually fall again because of its own weight. We think you can learn a lot of lessons from the sectors. Then I'm not gonna rule out the fact that you're gonna have to take a bigger step in the end. But I would prefer to do this inductively, so look: what do you learn from the coal fund and what is the logical follow-up? Of course, for workers who lose their jobs as a direct result of the closure of a production site or plant by public intervention, also existing legislation, from work to work and other instruments. But again, I am not saying that there is no need, I would say: let us first learn lessons from the coal fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you. Mr Klaver, GroenLinks, and then Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u24	When I speak to those polluting eleven large companies that Mr Rutte is talking about, I am also optimistic, because they have turned the switch. They see that, too, Tata has just brought that out. They have to take that big step. But the government is really driving them crazy. They have to make big investment decisions, actually this autumn. There is still no cabinet and this cabinet does not have the right things to do to help them. This state of emergency that is being discussed is about: what are you giving it? One thing that the Labour Party and we give to it is that the Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Climate is given perseverance. Why is that necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u25	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u26	No, I'm gonna explain why that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u27	It was a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u28	Why is that necessary? The energy infra we're building... There is currently competition for scarce space. If we're gonna start with hydrogen, where's it gonna go first? Is it going to industry, where we can take a bigger hit, or is it going to mobility? If we don't have that perseverance power, it's gonna go wrong in the execution. We can have as many ambitions as we want, and we can have all the money in the world, but then we don't achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u29	I think it is true that there is a huge gap for building the green hydrogen economy and the whole infrastructure associated with it. Of course, some connections will be sought with existing networks, including gas and other things. That's a hell of a bone. These are the Women-on-the-Moon projects, the Moonshot projects, of Minnesma, but of course it was also in a scientific report by GroenLinks. It's very wide. It's going to be a huge financial injection in the next few years. That's clear, too. But I'm not in favour of that... we should really think about that for a long time. I see that perseverance as such is needed to speed up certain decisions. I also see that we need to decide very quickly with each other this autumn on how to build this green hydrogen economy further. Of course, the 6.8 billion package also contains a very large part in this area. That's not enough, absolutely not. No, there's a lot more to be done. That is why I say that you will have to resolve that in the formation, or in debates in the Chamber if the formation is too slow. This can't wait for a new cabinet if it goes too slow. That is perfectly clear. Of course, you will also have to look at the powers of the rulers to do so. But I am not convinced of the climate emergency situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u30	We need to talk about it right here. The Prime Minister refers to the formation every time. I'd say send an invitation, and we'll have a formation. But let's talk about it differently here. As long as there's no formation, this is where we discuss it with each other. We see that it takes 12 years for the grid to be renewed. We see that huge investments are in place, and the government doesn't have to do that; there isn't a penny more of a subsidy going to build windmills at sea, but we have a problem: we can't connect them to land here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u31	Yeah, the sockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u32	This requires an enormous extra from a cabinet and from the executive. So that calls for the perseverance that I'm talking about. Because now there is a huge consultation circus, so that all those big companies that want to invest billions of dollars, which is very good for employment in this country, now think: boys, should we do this now? They now doubt whether they are going to do it here, or whether they should go to Germany and France, where they have just organized it much better than we have at the moment. I say that with regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u33	I fully agree with that, by the way. I just don't think you need to call out the climate emergency for that. However, it is necessary to give the responsible ministers and State Secretarys the powers to take those necessary decisions through the policy areas of colleagues, as this also affects, for example, all kinds of issues relating to planning and spatial planning. How do you prevent the whole country from being satisfied with wind turbines? No one's waiting for that either. And what's the energy mix that goes with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u35	This is good, because he is actually saying that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy must be able to get through these policies...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u37	... and we need to be able to take decisions on this because otherwise we are not going to get this off the ground. Finally, I have one question. In the Climate Act, which we have helped to reach a majority here in the Chamber, it was an initiative law that was widely supported; compliments to all colleagues are currently 49% with a view to 55%. It's a 55% deal. The measures taken by the Cabinet do not add up to 49%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u38	No, let alone 55%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u39	Let alone 55%. But it doesn't even add up to 49%. That 55% is the assignment for a new cabinet. Can the Prime Minister assure me that before there is a new cabinet there he will probably still have a little time to announce sufficient measures to add 49%? I really think that's the responsibility of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u40	We are going to try to take measures to close the gap to 49% and to give a perspective on 55%, including in the KEV and the EZK budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr Van der Staaij, SGP, and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u42	In all the ambitions expressed, I am confident that, for example, the large industries will be able to cope well, but I am concerned about that bakery in Overijssel or that family in Zeeland. What does it mean for their wallet? Is it gonna pay off? Is it behaviorable? I note that, in general terms, it has been said in the past period: no, of course, that is true; that counts. But now, at the end of the past cabinet period, when I talk to people on work visits, I still hear that they are very uncertain about how things are going to work out. What can be done about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u43	That is partly a matter of detailing the plans and talking to people about them. Also, this is partly a matter of money: can you as a government cover some of the costs, which will otherwise be too heavy on people's wallets? That will be one of the issues before us in the near future. A second is the link between tackling the climate problem and nitrogen. Of course, there's a piece of overlap in that. I'll be right back to speak separately about nitrogen. But there's a overlap between those two. Together, these two lead to an almost national redevelopment of the Netherlands. For me, the following is crucial. In my opinion, there is a great deal of support in the Netherlands for tackling these problems and people also recognise that this must be done, but they also want to know what it means for their lives and whether they can live their lives in a normal way, including for the next ten or twenty years, with their families and so on. That is a very important question. We're gonna have to answer that. In doing so, we have been blessed by the way in which we came out of the crisis in the economic and financial sense, including from the recent corona crisis, because it gives us some scope to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u44	That is good to hear, but how does it work out in practice, even if you tighten targets again? Yesterday, Mr Jetten mentioned as an example that it was not easy in the built-up area. It's not easy to realize one-two-three. In the meantime, the issue is being discussed, such as a tightening up of the methane target at European level. There are good stories about this, and it is all understandable, but the question is what this means for example for farm holdings, for example, it is going to be a separate issue about agriculture, which is already very close by stacking up all kinds of measures and objectives. How do we test that what we do is actually manageable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u45	By making use of what we all sometimes find very complicated, namely that there are 19 groups in the Chamber. But the strength of Dutch democracy is also that there are nineteen groups in the Chamber which will all bring aspects of this policy and its impact on people into the discussion. It is then up to the government to make a proper weighting and try to achieve a parliamentary majority. Because there must indeed be a future for farmers in the Netherlands. There must be a future for people not to live in the shadow of a windmill. It is inevitable that there will be windmills, but you must do so in such a way that there is as much support for this as possible; I discussed this with Mr Eerdmans earlier today. So it's a smart energy mix. All these decisions will have to be taken in the coming years, but what is very helpful is that we do so in a strong economy, with a favourable economic boom. I think that's what's really gonna make us suffer with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u46	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u47	Yeah, finally. Let me give you another practical example. The Prime Minister says that we are all here and can talk about it, but take something that has once been the subject of a lot of debates, namely the demoralisation of the Hedwigepolder as a result of a Birds Directive. There was actually no group... Very few groups thought that was a good idea, because it was a consequence of what you said yes to earlier, actually without you seeing it at the time. I am afraid that pattern keeps repeating itself again and again with new tightenings and that idealistically broad yes is said here, but when you see how that works out in practice, you say: wait a minute, this was not really the intention. Then there's another club that goes to court and says, "Hey, that's what you agreed on, isn't it? That's what you have to do." Then we're stuck with the fried pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u48	But that also requires intelligently defining these objectives. I think the Urgenda case is just a court ruling and we should try to do everything we can to implement it. You want to avoid this kind of court ruling in the future, of course. At the same time, you don't want to make it too easy on yourself. If you don't record anything, you'll never have court rulings. The mix must therefore be sensiblely defined and then achieve its objectives by means of its own measures. The Miss Hedwigepolder was of course a very special file, which also had to do with Belgium and Flanders, because it was also a piece of compensation for what happened there. So it was good neighborhood that we made that possible, but I immediately admit that, of course, even in my time, when I was already in this job, we have been flipping into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u49	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then to Mr Jetten and, in my view, to Mr Baudet. No, I don't. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u50	Was that a slip or...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u51	No, Mr Wilders also wants to interrupt afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u52	Oh, okay. I thought I was being announced as Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u53	I can break you up real good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u54	We're both from the VVD, but there's still 20 centimeters in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u55	There's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u56	Well, you're not that small, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u57	That's how big Mr. Wilders is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u58	Okay, another topic. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u59	I had asked a question about the capture and storage of CO. You have partly answered that question, but you indicated that this is a transitional technology and that it is also cost-effective. Is it not true that it is only cost-effective with subsidies and that it may depend on the CO price?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u60	Of course, these things are always connected. In what the PBL and RIVM say about this, there is of course also a link with that kind of parameters. That is inevitable, but in the coming years we will have to do the next job, especially in the area of large industry. It has about a third of Dutch CO emissions and also wants to contribute about a third. It is even more willing to contribute if we also invest a lot of people together in the green hydrogen economy. This means that you have not suddenly solved all of these emissions towards 2030. Then you have to do two things. One: if a company like Dow would say that it's crucial in his investment cycle to replace that squatter in two years and not now, you have to accept that and you have to deal intelligently with fines and so on if you're sure that Dow will replace that squatter two years later and do it right. So that's one thing I think we should look at. A second is that in the meantime you want to reduce your CO emissions further, because it simply contributes to global warming. For this, CCS technology, which is included in all election programmes, especially under the sea floor, is simply necessary in the transitional phase. But of course you don't want that to be the solution for the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u61	Okay, so you can calculate it financially in a way with subsidy and a higher CO price. I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u62	Of course, there's a lot of subsidy on that, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u63	I understand. We'll all pay for it. And then suddenly it gets lucrative for Dow to do that. But still: suppose you had to cover that two-year period and in the meantime want to do something because you believe in the whole CO story... Whether you believe that or not, it doesn't matter, because that's what we're trying to do. Suppose it is that if you calculate technically, so not financially, and it turns out that cradle to grave, that whole capture and storage of CO, causes more emissions to occur by applying CCS, would you then... Suppose I can prove that or at some point there will be reports that show that, as happens abroad, you will then be willing to say to such a Dow: you know what, you will capture that crack in two years, but in the meantime do not do anything, because if we start using CCS, it will lead to more emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u64	If, if... Look, of course, we always have to see if the techniques we apply work eventually. Biomass is an example where there is going to be a social debate, and we know about whether it is the ideal form to reduce CO emissions, because it has all kinds of other effects in the chain. That could be the case with other things, too. Things are gonna happen to us in the years to come. There will also be new breakthroughs. We know that, no doubt, between 2025 and 2030, we will again have some major issues to resolve in order to meet the targets, including towards 2050. I want these breakthroughs in the Netherlands. Where exactly they are, you can't predict yet. You know that the Netherlands can take the lead in that if you put energy and money in it, because we have the good people here. You should always be open to new insights. That is not a Van Haga report, but it must be very well-founded scientific reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u66	It is a good thing that biomass plants are included, because that is a typical example of which the whole world said: that is the way to go. I remember ex-Minister Wiebes here giving a nice example of a desert in which you plant a tree and cut it down. Then you have a nice circular system. You put that tree in an oven and then you have energy. Eventually, that just turned out to be total air bike. The biomass plants are bad for the environment. That new insight has come to us now. I predict that it will be exactly the same with CCS, because CCS will ultimately just cost energy. Capture costs energy. Compressing and putting it in the ground costs energy. In the United States they are now on a large scale closing CCS plants to the net result, the technical net result, is simply negative. So I'd say keep your eyes open. I'll remind you of that. I will not publish a Van Haga report, but I will make sure that you get the reports that show that this is just really bad for the environment. Again, whether you believe in it or not, let's just do the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u67	Eyes open and keep it a little practical, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. Mr Jetten of D66 and then Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u69	I do not think I have said this before or again, but these were quite sensible questions from Mr Van Haga on this point. I'm gonna get on with that. These days we are talking about the three major crises: the housing crisis, the opportunity crisis and the climate and nature crisis. It is really commendable that the outgoing cabinet in a budget that is poor in policy is spending billions more on tackling the climate disaster. That's very necessary. The European Commission has presented the Fit for 55 package, with great ambitions that allow us to take huge steps for the whole of Europe. The cabinet already fills in part of this with these extra billions, among other things to enter into green industrial policy. This also requires a different attitude from the cabinet, because we have often seen the following things in the past. If the Chamber advocated a hydrogen backbone for the big industrial clusters in the Netherlands, then Minister Wiebes said: that is really a task for the private sector, and I do not see any government role in that. Recently, following the presentation of the European plans, Secretary of State Yeşilgöz said: very good that there are; other countries need to do more! That, of course, is not the attitude we are going to make this project work. So I welcome the Olympic ambition of Demissionary Prime Minister Rutte. My question to him is this: we now have all these extra billions, so what will the cabinet do in the coming months? Is it going to say to the big polluters: here's the money, here's a different attitude from the government to help you skip CCS and other techniques and do it right at once, but then I would like to make a deal with you that we will also keep to the big turnaround that the big polluters can make? What can the cabinet do to put the companies in the right position?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u70	As far as it takes. But I agree: in the end it is also seeing and then believing, although the CDA is the other way around. But most say, "See first, then believe." Then it is very important that we use all the existing instruments, the CO pricing, ETS, and everything we have for that. But back to Wiebes: in doing so, you have to look very closely at how state aid discussions play through them. We need to shape that very precisely. That was also the case in the debate on Tata: how do you do it in a way that can be done with European state aid, even if you are going to build that energy infrastructure, that green hydrogen backbone infrastructure? Yeşilgöz has pointed out... She has not said so much that other countries should do it now. That's what I saw mostly in the media. The main concern of the cabinet, including in Europe, is how we ensure that we do not seduce Eastern Europe endlessly with all funds. We're not against that either. I get it, too. Poland is 80% dependent on coal. Bulgaria and Romania are far behind. But at the end of the day there will be a time when these countries too will have to catch up. It is about cohesion in Europe, with regard to 55% and ultimately climate neutrality by 2050. The important thing is that everyone does their part in the end. The Netherlands is about the first in Europe to come up with an appreciation of the "Fit for 55" package, for example in the area of ETS. Are you or are you not going to expand it to built environments and transportation? There are advantages and disadvantages, given the specific Dutch situation. What do you do with the ESA objective, in good Dutch the Efficiency Sharing Regulation? This particularly affects the countries of Eastern Europe. But also: what do you possibly do about new funds, such as the Social Climate Fund that is being proposed? We don't say in advance that we don't. We're not saying that, but we're saying that we need to take a really good look at it and not stack it. In that triangle of ESA, ETS and SCF, you will eventually have to help Eastern Europe in a reasonable way. The Netherlands must, of course, simply make its contribution. The ambitions are high here. But that also includes the fact that, if you put money into that green hydrogen backbone, a company has to deliver too. They'll do it on paper. They all say it, too. Look again at the public expressions of Tata this week. You're gonna have to record that somehow. That's what the existing instruments are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u71	It is a good thing that the Prime Minister is explaining the broad package from Brussels. In my view, this also includes the CO tax at the EU's external border...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u72	Yeah, the CBAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u73	... because of unfair competition from, among other things, China. It's just how you count and calculate big polluters. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the cabinet could send a letter to EZK during the budget debate on how this process is going to work with these companies, with the additional billions that have now been set aside. I understand that parties involved in the Climate Agreement, including environmental and nature organisations, were not just applauding after the speech of the throne. They also said that we agreed on a whole industrial package. Things are now being changed in relation to the Climate Agreement, without us having the promise of these companies actually delivering on paper. If we want to maintain the support base, this must also be properly regulated. So I would like to have that commitment that we can do that with the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u74	Yeah, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u75	Fine. Then I would like to use my third and final question on this point. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has just begun not only to name the climate, but also the biodiversity crisis, because all kinds of animal and plant species are being lost. This is, of course, sad for future generations who will no longer be able to enjoy it, but it is also particularly dangerous for the food chain and global warming, which will be accelerated if biodiversity deteriorates even more. This autumn and next spring there will be a UN Biodiversity Summit in Chinese Kunming, in autumn digital, I think, and in spring physically. I would ask the cabinet to send a heavy delegation to both meetings, as far as I am concerned, even the Prime Minister of this country, because we saw at the Paris Climate Summit that it really makes the difference if Heads of Government join such a UN initiative. I would also like to seduce this Prime Minister, with Olympic green ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u76	A heavy cabinet delegation anyway. I need to take a look. If, for example, all the countries send the climate minister and I myself sit there stubbornly, that doesn't add up. But as soon as I am not the only leader of the government, I would also like to be present at that level. I just think it's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u77	Thank you. Mr Wilders, PVV, and then Mrs Ouwehand, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u78	Let me make another sound. It kind of freaked me out, a little too much, actually. It's like there was a bit of a possessed person talking. The Prime Minister seems to be brainwashed by all this climate crazy. I also understand that he has kicked GroenLinks off the negotiating table, because he himself represents the GroenLinks programme when it comes to climate. You're not a VVD man anymore. I remember: once, ten or fifteen years ago, you talked about Green Right. I don't know if you're right, but you've turned very green. That's something to scare you apart. The Prime Minister says, let me summarize my own words: we are going to grow the Netherlands more than ever, the third largest renovation since World War II. He says we're not going to spend 7 billion on climate, we're going to spend tens of billions. Mr. Rutte, what happened to you? What the hell happened to you? What are we gonna pay all that for? Mr Eerdmans is absolutely right. The Netherlands is responsible for 0.5% of CO emissions. At the moment when you are going to spend billions on subsidies and shut down coal power stations, there are already 600 new coal power stations in Asia. So we are picking our population clean and spending tens of billions on climate change, while on the other side of the world, in Asia, they are doing the opposite. What's gotten into you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u79	That Green Right was a mistake, namely in the naming, because people read "green" and think of GroenLinks. I can't help it, either. But it's exactly Green Right what we do here, if it's up to me. Everyone will do this from their own motivation and inspiration, but the core of my 2008 piece, the Pamphlet of an optimist, was the next story. There are huge challenges and issues related to global warming, energy and climate change. In the meantime, unfortunately, nitrogen has been added as a meteorite. How can we combine this with stimulating additional economic growth, and make the Netherlands the most innovative economy in the world? Because I think we have everything we need for that. We embrace modernity, we are a modern country with a modern economy. There's a huge opportunity there. Then there's China. I also offered Boris Johnson last week that the Netherlands is willing to help the English diplomats in the talks they are having worldwide to come up with a deal in the run-up to COP26 in Glasgow. One of the issues and concerns is, of course, Asia. However, China has announced that it will no longer export coal plants. We need to see if it's gonna happen, but I think this is a profit. We know that China is building a lot of coal power plants in other parts of the world. If it is true that China will stop exporting coal plants, it will be of great value to our planet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u80	That was not an answer to my question. China may have announced that it will stop exporting. I saw that yesterday. But in the meantime, throughout Asia, China is a big boy out there, but Asia is bigger than just China, building hundreds of coal power stations, exporting or not. China also builds hundreds of coal plants in China itself, Mr. Prime Minister. When I hear you talk like that, I wonder whether you are proposing all this because you see it as a kind of earning model and think that we can make money with innovation and jobs, if that's right, or that you are doing it from an ideological point of view, because like Jesse Klaver, you think that the world is going to end differently. But the fact remains, whether it is GroenLinks or Green Right, that it is total madness. The Netherlands is responsible for 0.5%, but for that you will completely remodel the Netherlands. You're going to cost the Dutch that will happen, no matter what you say. It's priceless what we're gonna do. I'm telling you, if you just want to pursue a sober policy... Whatever you think of it, but let's say the temperature's up... we're indeed the Low Countries in the Netherlands... then take care of good water management. Then make sure we strengthen our dikes and our dunes. Make sure that, as we have already done in Limburg and Gelderland in part, we give space to the river. The program for this is also called Space for the River. If it happens, we have to make sure we're prepared. You can do that. That doesn't cost as much money as all that crazy of yours, and then you're prepared when it happens. But then you're not gonna grow an entire country for tens of billions, for 0.5% of the influence of the Netherlands, while on the other side of the world they're gonna build hundreds of power stations. So I'd like to say to you, return to Earth, leave the green ship and just think about how we can normally handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u81	The risks you'll be taking will be incalculable. Schiphol Airport is four meters below sea level. The Haarlemmermeer is four meters below sea level. The figures are mid-range scenarios in which we have not yet processed that because of a chain effect also the permafrost in Russia melts further, thereby releasing the huge methane lakes, which will trigger an acceleration of global warming. We haven't even taken this into account, because if that's in there, it's already hopeless. If these figures were to come out, the Netherlands would be lost. Then you can no longer inhabit the western part of the Netherlands. That won't hold you up with a few dikes or a few smart sand engines like we have at Monster now. It's en-and. You will also have to combat global warming in order to protect this country and ensure that you build with nature. Not everywhere ugly concrete dikes where all houses disappear behind, but cleverly build with nature so that you keep protecting our land from the water. In that respect, we are simply number one in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals, and then Mr. Dassen, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u83	The Prime Minister just said, "We're not gonna let go of the one-and-a-half degree deal." You misread that in the Millions Note. I hope so, because with 1.1 degrees of warming, we have already had four dramatic summers. It is either heat and great drought with great damage for farmers and for people who see their homes sink, or last summer the floods in Limburg. I am not even talking about the forest fires in Australia, Siberia and Canada. So this is what we already have. It doesn't get any better. This is 1.1 degrees. The deal in Paris was: we'll do the best we can to limit it to 1.5 degrees. If the Prime Minister says that the cabinet does not abandon that objective, where is the proof that he is doing the best he can to do everything in proportion in the Netherlands to limit the warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u84	Paris is 2 degrees and keeping an eye on 1.5 degrees. That is the objective we committed ourselves to at COP in Paris in 2015. This translates into 49% in Europe, partly through the Netherlands, because this coalition agreement had great ambitions. I am not saying that it is because of the Netherlands, but at least in Europe we have contributed in climate diplomacy to increasing to 55% and climate-neutral by 2050. We believe that it is extremely important to get as close to those objectives as possible. I fully agree, but I fully agree, that if you do not do so and do not do so, Mrs Ouwehand is right in saying that it will have the enormous consequences, not only for our country but also for this part of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u85	The latter is important to repeat, but I'm getting a little confused. The Prime Minister immediately refers to this 2 degree objective, while I am talking about the other part of the Paris agreements: doing the maximum to limit it to 1.5 degrees. Then my question is, where is that evidence? Because with the package that has now been proposed, I think the cabinet should conclude that it is not implementing the Urgendavonnis in 2021. Before 2022, we do not know whether it will bring the targets closer. Doing the best is defending this climate policy with fire as far as the Party for Animals is concerned and not letting the climate skeptics speak, who say 'yes, but the Netherlands is very small, 0.5%' and then stick in it. But a lot of emissions from the Netherlands are not attributed to the Netherlands: deforestation for the import of our animal feed, deforestation for the import of palm oil... The Netherlands is the largest importer......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Netherlands has a mega footprint. So I ask again: if we maintain that objective, where does it become clear that the cabinet is doing the best it can to limit the warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u86	2 degrees and we're trying to keep the 1.5 degrees in sight. That is the objective of the Paris Agreement. What we are doing is taking out a package of 7 billion for this. I told you, that's not enough. More needs to be done: either at formation or later, but in time, before the budget can no longer be adjusted. I've said that a few times. You didn't hear me talk about the 0.5% group. I have argued the opposite, namely how important it is for the Netherlands to assume this responsibility as the seventeenth economy of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u87	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u88	The Prime Minister does not answer the question about the Urgendavonnis. The fact that the cabinet just survived in 2020 is due to a corona crisis. But in 2021, they just let that go, as if the judge's ruling was not there and as if it was not the minimum that the cabinet should have committed itself to. The judge said it was a lower limit. If you do not even reach that lower limit this year with the package that you have now set out, and you cannot even make sure for next year that you do, then we have to conclude that the cabinet is not doing the maximum but the absolute minimum and that even that is not being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u89	What we are doing in this Millions Note is giving almost 7 billion to be able to take action in a wide range of areas: from CCS to the construction of a green hydrogen backbone. As Mrs Ouwehand knows, we are also taking a number of measures for the shorter term: from an energy saving obligation in companies to energy saving and hybrid water pumps in homes. All these things we do. They are all important, even for the shorter term. We will see in 2023 what the emissions were in 2021. Our ambition is to make it, but I would add that we have to be very clear that the 6.8 billion is not enough. Eventually, more will have to be done. We will have to take further decisions on this in the coming weeks, I hope in formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u90	I would like to continue on what Mrs Ouwehand said. The question is indeed whether the maximum is now being done. The answer given by the Prime Minister gives me the feeling that there is still some uncertainty as to what that maximum is going to be. At the end of the day, it is also a bit like the fact that it has led us into this situation, extending our approach to tackling climate change all the time. I hear signs that it should remain feasible and affordable, but I also hear that we are trying to reach the Urgendavonnis, we are trying to close the gap to that 49% and we are going to look at 55% with perspective. To Mr Van der Staaij, I just heard the Prime Minister say whether or not someone would go to court again: then we are going to define these goals intelligently. I wonder if the Prime Minister really intends to make the most of this climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u91	Yeah, where climate change is concerned. Urgenda is a complicated issue. We believe that we are now doing the best we can to enforce the verdict. This is the case for 2021 and 2022, but also for 2021 visible in 2023. That is what we are doing with the additional measures we are taking in the package. It is true that CO emissions can fluctuate considerably per year, depending on how hot or cold winter is, fuel prices and the CO price. In addition, the measure on CO emissions from coal plants will enter into force in the very short term. That's gonna help us, too. We really believe that we should do the best we can to comply with the Urgenda pronunciation. In the end, we don't want this stuff in the future. I'd rather over-dimensionate to the future than under-dimension. So we are doing the same thing now because of this 6.8 billion towards 2030 for 49%, 55% and ultimately the target for 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u92	That is what I am very curious about: how will the Prime Minister achieve that? At the moment I get the feeling that it is mainly still trying and moving forward. The Prime Minister also started a story about Israel and Defence. He talked about the Delta Works and the Dutch as water managers for the world. He referred to Brainport in Eindhoven. I've been there, too. They clearly indicate that they want to continue to innovate, but that they are waiting for a clear direction from the government and clear investments involved. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: what missions is he going to formulate to ensure that industry can do the innovations that are needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u93	That's what we're doing right now. That is why it is also unprecedented that a outgoing cabinet spends nearly 7 billion on this issue. This is happening with broad support from the Chamber, I think. It is also necessary to do this, not only because of Urgenda, but also because of the other issues that lie ahead. We will, of course, have to agree in detail on what is needed for the 55, what is needed for the long term, what is needed for the green hydrogen backbone and what is needed for the further approach to the nitrogen issue that will potentially involve a great deal of money and also to some extent have an impact on the CO emission reduction. Unfortunately, this effect is not so great, but it will have an effect and at least contribute to a better living environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u94	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u95	Mr. Chairman. Then there were also a few questions about agriculture. I will respond to some of the questions asked. Let me say first of all that it is very important that there remains a good future for Dutch farmers. They are of course important for our food supply. They are important to the vital countryside. We must also give long-term prospects for entrepreneurs who want and can make this change. This means that we must support the agricultural sector and ensure that this aid is available for a long time. This provides a reliable basis for business development. So that's what we're gonna do. That is what the whole policy is about. This should be reflected, among other things, in the further approach to nitrogen. Much has already happened, of course, but there is still a huge amount of work to be done to really control nitrogen emissions and thus to control their economic effects, for example by building roads, building houses and other infrastructure projects. Mr. Chairman. Animal welfare is an important part of government policy. This year, the Chamber adopted an amendment on housing under the Animal Law. As agreed with the Chamber, we are first carrying out a legal analysis and impact analysis of the adopted amendment on animal housing. The House will be informed of this this autumn. Of course, the OVV's research into the barn fires is also important. Then about Brazil. Brazil is a large and competitive producer of agricultural products. As regards sensitive products for the European Union, such as beef, imports from Brazil are limited, as the European Union applies a significant import rate of 40% or higher to these products. As regards the possible trade agreement, which the question was actually about, between the EU and Mercosur countries, the Cabinet will adopt a position once the full texts of the agreement have been submitted. Mr. Chairman. Then questions have been asked about the organisations operating on the ground. They have to answer for the nature management they feed. They do that in the provinces, through the Subsidiestelsel Nature and Landscape. They sign up for nature parks that they're going to manage in accordance with the goals of the nature policy plan of that province. They need to show on a regular basis what nature they have realized. One of the conditions of the Subsidiestelsel Nature and Landscape is that all administrators must be certified. If international work is carried out, the accountability criteria for granting subsidies are strict. There is, of course, a particular responsibility for the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The 2030 Future vision of plant protection focuses on the resilience of plants and cultivation systems. Diseases, pests and weeds are thus less likely to reduce the need for plant protection products. Fytoftora is a disease in the potato plant. The damage to organic farmers in the warm, wet July period was indeed considerable. Organic farmers do not, in principle, use plant protection products to combat these diseases. In addition to strict hygiene measures on the farm, the disease can be prevented by using resilient robust potato varieties with resistance to these diseases. They are also used in organic farming. The cabinet is not yet aware of this new research on agricultural grasslands in western peatlands. They appear to contain more life than the surrounding natural areas. I would ask Mrs van der Plas to send me that investigation. Then we come back to that in writing towards the LNV budget. Then there was the question of what we were going to do for a better income for farmers in the Netherlands. That question also addressed the tariffs of the Dutch Food and Consumer Authority. Everything we do is to ensure that farmers in the Netherlands have a solid position in the chain and to ensure that the earning capacity of farmers is strengthened. This leads to a whole series of concrete measures. These have been set out in the agricultural entrepreneurship agenda, which was also sent to the House of Representatives last year. The cabinet stimulates new entrepreneurship, works towards better remuneration of public services, strengthens the market power of agricultural entrepreneurs and, what is important, also promotes a level playing field. All this is for the purpose of giving space to agricultural entrepreneurship and to offer perspective. For the NVWA I attach to explainable and cost-covering rates. There is constant attention for this and there is also accountability to the House of Representatives. Then there is the question: do the farmers have to leave? Is that why innovations in the agricultural sector are being rejected? The Netherlands is absolutely facing major issues in the areas of climate, nitrogen and biodiversity. A change to a sustainable, forward-looking agriculture is therefore necessary. For this reason, action is also being taken on all sides to reduce nitrogen emissions and tackle them at source. This leads to a whole package of measures, including a balance for farmers who want and can make sustainable but also for farmers who may want to stop. It is the intention of the cabinet to help farmers who want to continue to help farmers to do so sustainably and to make the sector future-proof in this way, inter alia by stimulating and supporting innovations in the case of intensification and, if necessary, in the case of relocation. Not every entrepreneur will make that change, and therefore the cabinet is committed to supporting these entrepreneurs, possibly with a termination subsidy, in order to offer them a reasonable perspective of action. Dan. It is necessary for Dutch farmers to have good prospects for the future, as I have already said, and for the transition to sustainable, future-proof agriculture to be shaped. That is why support is being given on all sides in the coming years. D66 asked about the nitrogen plans. The cabinet is currently implementing the current structural approach and the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement Act. This is the basis for both the achievement of nature objectives and the prospect of economic developments. As the nitrogen problem will require permanent attention in the future, the cabinet asked for a possible follow-up approach to nitrogen for the purpose of the formation table, and thus for a subsequent cabinet. An integral package in which climate, water and nature assessments are taken up in a coherent manner and in which the agricultural sector is supported in making the necessary sustainability targets, has been requested. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the question why nitrogen emissions were only 30% instead of 50%... That was a somewhat broader argument that was put forward. With the current structural approach and the nitrogen law, a major step is taken to solve the nitrogen problem. But we have always said that the approach does not stop here and that more will be needed to improve the state of nature, not only in terms of nitrogen reduction, but also in terms of nature measures. This means that important choices still have to be made in the future. Who's gonna take the fall if that doesn't go well? Here's what I'm gonna say. At the same time, the whole approach to nitrogen is aimed both at providing a perspective for agriculture and at ensuring that the state of conservation of nature improves. This is why an approach is being adopted to clarify the form of entrepreneurship and, where possible, the framework conditions within which entrepreneurs can return to a future perspective. Mr. Chairman. The Oostvaardersplassen. I've checked it out by now. Mrs Van der Plas reminded me of that question. That's a protected nature reserve. So that is not unlocked and not suitable for housing. Mr. Chairman. Then nuclear power. With regard to the use of biomass, I have already said a few things. Here's what I'm saying about nuclear power. As we also mentioned in the Climate Agreement, nuclear energy is an opportunity to produce CO-neutral electricity. That is what we are paying attention to in the longer term. That is why we are looking at whether and in what way nuclear energy can play a role in the future mix in the Netherlands. To this end, the Secretary of State for Climate and Energy commissioned a scenario study for the period 2030 to 2050 and the period after 2050. It is then I think of a next cabinet to decide on this. That, Mr President, is about agriculture, nitrogen and nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u96	Thank you. First of all, I will give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB, then to Mr Klaver and then to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u97	Well, that was a very sad answer. You went through it nice and fast. That went faster than last time. Let me just mention a few things. The Oostvaardersplassen. It is a little too easy to say: it is a protected nature reserve. I am aware that it is difficult to move into a Natura 2000 site, but it is possible. It's not impossible. I have just looked it up and for the record: it is the dry part of the Oostvaardersplassen. An area can be removed if the decline of the area is so serious that it can no longer contribute to the conservation of species or types of nature protected in Europe. That's what Mrs. Josephine van Zeben says, Professor of Law at the WUR. In the Oostvaardersplassen, the large number of large grazers caused major ecological damage. In twenty years, 22 rare breeding birds have disappeared from the dry part of the Oostvaardersplassen. The WUR itself calls this a unique experience in the history of Dutch nature conservation. That research was done by five ecologists from the WUR, Utrecht University, Staatsbosbeheer and research agency Sweco. 22 rare breeding birds on the red list have disappeared there. Nature is just in a terrible state there. So it's okay for the Cabinet to ask for that. You can just do that at the European Commission. They won't say yes right away, but you can just prove that that area is more or less destroyed. Gooses have eaten away 500 to 600 hectares of reeds in recent years. There is so much reed gone there that there are large open water surfaces that are completely cloudy. The province of Flevoland therefore wanted to place reeds there again. Consider that reeds are eaten away by the geese and then there must be reeds again, because that is good for nature! They wanted to do that by lowering the water level, but because of the warm summers that water level is already lower. That's what killed tens of thousands of fish. It goes on and on and on in those Oostvaardersplassen! It's just a big mess. Our vision is: look at it and research at least if it's possible. If you build up there, there could be 100,000 to 160,000 homes. If you were going to build in the middle of the city, it might be between 80,000 and 100,000. And if you build there nationwide, you can build about 50,000 homes on those 2,000 acres. I understand that it is very complicated and therefore it does not need to be done immediately, but I would very much like to see a serious investigation being carried out. I think we are going to table a motion on this, because it is a little too easy for me how the cabinet walks over this by saying: well, it is a protected nature reserve; it cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u98	I understood myself with the Minister for Agriculture and she says it is not irreparable. One of the criteria for changing such a destination is whether or not irreparable. But maybe the idea is right. You're filing a motion, I understand. We can then respond a little further to this motion for a resolution on the agricultural budget. Maybe that's better than improvising now. But at the heart of the matter, I understand, is the question of the irreparableity of the damage. Anyway, that's what I just got whispered. I think it would be better if we took that up in greater detail on the basis of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u99	Well, look, it's not a matter of being able, because everything is a matter of wanting. But I find it bizarre that the figures I'm now mentioning are not known, because they are really super easy to find when you google. This information should also be known to the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm surprised no one's talking about this. Everyone always pretends it's some kind of Disneyland out there in the Oostvaardersplassen, but it's not. Anyway, we'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u100	It is the first time in my 11 years that I have talked about the Oostvaardersplassen here, I say quite honestly. So I am not very expert, and that is why this alone is making this debate a celebration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u101	I just told you something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u102	Absolutely, but Mrs. Schouten already knew it all. And that's more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u103	Let's talk about the TBOs. What you're saying about that isn't entirely true either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u104	TBO's ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u105	Sorry, I look like Mrs Kaag! The land-based organizations. Among other things, Natural Monuments and Forest Management are TBOs. As it happens, the regional newspapers come up with a story about Agro, which states that it is almost never asked whether the TBOs do carry out their work properly. It is almost never asked whether every euro is being used optimally. The annual reports of 2020 show that Mrs Schouten this year increased the subsidy to 84% of what we call all costs. Of these, 84% will be reimbursed. Other income comes from members and stuff like that. Natural monuments manage 112,000 hectares of land and grew 3.4% last year. They're getting 46.4 million government subsidies. What part is nature management? That's just unclear. You need to get it through the provinces. The costs are not broken down at all. Natural monuments capture the costs and what they do with them, together with "being a good administrator." But being a good administrator can be anything. Individual questions from journalists are not answered by Natuurmonumenten. Finally, state forestry management: 273,000 hectares of natural land. 60 million euros of subsidy. There is no broken cost item and that is explained by "that we have intertwined in business operations," both costs and revenues. It is simply not clear what the TBOs are doing with the subsidies, the tens of millions of grants! They're getting from us through the government. It's just not clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u106	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mrs van der Plas, I say through the chairman, that is, of course, a matter for the province. The system works in such a way that there is a subsidy system of nature and agricultural management, that the provinces give money through that subsidy system and that these TBOs then sign up for what they're going to manage and whatever goes with it in terms of goals, from the province's plan for nature policy. They must therefore regularly show what they are doing there. I understand that there is now an article that argues that might also support it, I have not seen the article that is insufficient to determine whether this is happening, but that seems to me to be primarily a matter for the provinces. They are the grant authority here. I can also imagine that if that article appears, the IPO, the inter-provincial body for our provinces or the inter-provincial consultative body, or the delegates who are responsible for it, will respond to it. We must, I think, avoid drawing this to the national level, because we already have so much on our plate here. Interprovincial consultation, that's what it's called.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u108	Finally, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u109	Sorry, but it's just public money and it seems to me that you, through the chairman, say that the cabinet is a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u110	A cappuccino.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u111	I'd like a cappuccino for Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u112	Yes. A Mrs. Van der Plas wants one too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u113	Without sugar?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u114	Yes. And a cookie. No? No cookie? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u115	Let's go over it again. It is, of course, public money, and it seems to me that the cabinet is a little concerned about the fact that there are organisations that receive tens of millions of euros, of which we do not know at all what is happening with it. These organisations are also responsible for nature management, because these organisations also call out: our nature is doing so badly! That is also stated in their annual reports. That is what we are making policy on here, in The Hague. We make policy on what these organizations tell us about the state of nature. We do not know at all whether they are doing their job. You can throw it on the nitrogen, but you can also start to ask yourself: do they do well, that nature management? Is there any natural damage caused by poor management? I'm not saying it's true, but it can, only we don't know it at all. Then Mr Rutte can say 'yes, but that's up to the provinces, that's up to you'. Well, no, I don't. I believe that we have a responsibility and that the cabinet has a responsibility, especially in view of the enormous measures that agriculture is waiting for, to think: we must take a good look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u116	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u117	Because we are going to impose everything on these farmers, but we simply do not know what is going on with that money and whether it is going to happen properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u118	Clear, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u119	Let's do this. I gave the strict answer, namely: it's up to the provinces, let's not draw it to us. But the Minister for Agriculture says that article will soon be published and that it will then come to the LNV budget with a response to that article. Shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u120	For now, I'm okay with that, or I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u121	I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u122	I've got three and a half years left, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u123	Cozy. Let's do it. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals, and then Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u125	Unless Mr Wilders gets his way with that election.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u126	I would like to ask the outgoing Prime Minister why his cabinet actually moved the nitrogen problem to another cabinet. The ruling of the Council of State was already in 2019. The warnings were already known before that. There were very sharp warnings for that whole construction, that Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. It would end in either taking away farmers from permits they should never have gotten, or huge costs for taxpayers. That was all just familiar. Why did this cabinet choose to leave it to the next cabinet to resolve it? And in the meantime, what does farmers really gain from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u127	I wouldn't say we left it. Of course, a lot has happened to get the nitrogen problem under control. But that's not enough. I think this is what we should do. If the formation does not start, this should be part of the broader exchange of views between the Cabinet and the Chamber. As with the climate issue, I think a greater movement will have to be made here. But a lot is already happening. The law is passed. The provinces are busy assessing companies and conducting conversations with entrepreneurs. The first instalment in consultation with the provinces is currently being evaluated. The second tranche is now being designed. So it's about the peak chargers around nature reserves. This is a major issue in the question of the nitrogen approach. So it is not that nothing happens, I would like to say. But I agree that much more needs to be done. Just as we do with climate change, this cabinet is taking another big step. That is what we have done with the legislation and with the climate of nearly 7 billion. But that doesn't get us there yet. Of course, Mrs Ouwehand is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u128	These are all fine words, but that does not change the fact that this cabinet has sent a law to this Chamber and has wanted to make a political compromise in the back rooms. That did not do justice to what was needed for real restoration of nature and for finally having the clarity that farmers deserve, even if it is difficult choices. One day after the election, the top officials came up with the analysis that that law was not good. How is that possible? Then the cabinet deliberately sent a bad law to this Chamber, with all the consequences for nature, farmers and housing? Or those civil servants will come up with something. That's the other option. But I don't think so. This information was just known at the Ministry. It's the biggest problem of the moment. It'll stop everything. Farmers are right to be angry that they've been lied to. They are quite right to be angry that apparently scenarios are being developed for expropriation and licensing. That may be necessary, and it is necessary, because these Cabinets have been dawdling for so long. But would have been honest about that before. Now farmers think again: oh yes, I have to invest in technology, because then it will be okay according to Minister Schouten. You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u129	I disagree. In 2019, following the decision of the Council of State in that spring, a first, very big step was taken to arrive at a structural approach to the nitrogen issue. Legislation was subsequently adopted, also with the support of the parties in this Chamber. That legislation must now be implemented. One of the major themes is now buying out those peak chargers. The third step must then be taken. It's really gonna get in. It's a huge process. To this end, experts have been asked: what should be such a next step and what are variants in it? We will all have to weigh that up politically. But it's not like you're here with a law and a few euros to solve the problem. It is a huge issue that we are solving in a number of steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u130	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u131	No, you certainly won't solve the problem with a law, especially if that law is a copy of the review framework fired by the Council of State. An ugly political compromise has been reached here. Everything that was known about how to really solve this crisis, which would have been much more honest towards the farmers, would have been much better for nature and much better for housing, because they would finally know what can and can't do, was not important to the Rutte III cabinet. It was very important to maintain your political image and play the political game, at the expense of farmers, at the expense of nature, at the expense of taxpayers and at the expense of people looking for a home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u132	That's just not true. We are really taking steps to tackle the nitrogen problem. This is one of those conspiracies. No, it's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u133	Mr Heerma, CDA, and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u134	I have a follow-up question on this subject. I don't share the description...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u135	Maybe it's useful to use the microphone in the middle for a while, because I've noticed for a while that this one produces some kind of magical sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u136	If it happens here, it's me and not the microphone. I do not agree with Mrs Ouwehand's presentation of the situation. At the same time, the Prime Minister states that a third step is needed and that it is prepared for a subsequent cabinet. I think that is justified in itself, because it is so great, but you can see the uncertainty that Mrs Ouwehand is talking about. Yesterday in the middle of the Netherlands there was a court order which destroyed permits from 17 farmers. Is it an idea that the Prime Minister moved there halfway that we get a piece before the LNV budget, so that a discussion can take place in the Chamber should the formation last for a very long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u137	Yes, and in my way of seeing, besides climate change on a few other major themes, you would have to re-create that debate here. I think this is a very good idea. That also gives you all the same knowledge position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u138	I have a question along the lines of this. Things also need to be prepared. If we are not going to debate this until the LNV budget, we are actually just too late. It is not just the piece you need and all the information; the preparations must also be made. For example, there is now a majority in the Chamber to bring the reduction target to 50%. To do this, you need to map the areas and the peak chargers. That kind of thing has to be prepared. It's a little more than just sharing all the new scientific insights, because we already know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u139	Okay. I think that we should first look at the agricultural budget, so I also understood Pieter Heerma's question about precisely what the existing legislation is doing and what steps 1 and 2 are doing. We are at the step 2019: the whole legislative process and also the expenditure on nature and nitrogen reduction, which I believe are 0.5 billion per year at the moment. How's that going? What's the hole and how do you close it? I think it would be a good thing if this came to the Chamber through a letter from the Ministry of Agriculture, because that really calls for further decision-making. It is also a question of large amounts of potential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u140	I think we already know that it is not enough what is happening now. We know very well what to do, just not yet how to do it. I say very often about nitrogen that we are in an implementation crisis. We have to take political decisions, yes, but in the end it is also about implementation, such as where we are going to focus the buy-out arrangements. Then it must have been precisely mapped out, is that also the commitment? What are the main problems and what is the area-based approach that is currently under way? That must then be completely in order, so that we can debate this with a map so to speak, and you can tell us in which areas we really need to intervene. Because that's what we've been waiting for for two years. By decentralising nature policy, it is all more difficult for the Minister to steer everything centrally, but we must have that for the LNV budget. 'Cause if we do, we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u141	Let's see. I think that with regard to the targeted buy-out of peak loaders, we can simply give a state of play. What is needed in step 3 is, of course, a much larger issue which also involves all kinds of political decisions. I think we can at any rate agree to include in the stand-of-business letter Heerma just asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u142	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u143	Let me first say "thank you" for this information, because otherwise it seems as if we are not happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u144	I'm just gonna find what you want more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u145	Yeah, that's why. I'm trying to be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u146	You've been doing that all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u147	Thank you for providing that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u148	I've been very fond of you all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u149	I'll see you, too. That's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u150	Thank you. I like you. What do you think of me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u151	I've seen you better, but it's not too bad. I am not interested in how things stand now, because I really do know what is going on with the buy-out of those peak loaders. That hasn't really gotten on steam yet. The point is that we want to know what is going on with the area-based approach. In which areas is the deposition, the concentration of nitrogen, so high? Where are we supposed to intervene? Which companies do you have to buy out in a very targeted way? It is very complex and very specific, but I would like to have that information prior to the LNV budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u152	Let me give it a try. Mrs. Schouten might be able to say it if I don't go far enough. Now provinces are assessing companies and having conversations with entrepreneurs. It's running. It was agreed in the Arrangement that the implementation of the first instalment should be subject to an interim review as soon as it is sufficiently in place. On this basis, the second tranche shall be designed. In this context there is also a motion by De Groot and Van Otterloo to facilitate moving in combination with a termination scheme. As a cabinet, we are looking at how to implement the motion of De Groot and Van Otterloo. We aim to be able to open up the second tranche of the targeted buying-in of livestock farms, the MGO, next spring. We can send you the whole state of affairs at field level, not at the level of individual companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u153	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u154	I'm gonna take a look past the Prime Minister's office to see Minister Schouten. So we get it from these areas, not at company level, but we get an impression of how many companies we are dealing with and what challenges we are facing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u155	So it says what's needed for the area, but you can't share that information at company level. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u156	Mr. Heerma? He's happy. Now, I think we're going to health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u157	Care, absolutely. Much has already happened, because I would remind you that we had a discussion on this subject this morning, but there are still a few questions. One question had to do with the national recovery plan for the post-corona care period. I can tell you that during the crisis we have already started to collect as widely as possible the damage caused by the crisis and how we get out of it. This has been done in a broad dialogue with society. That's not just about the care. This is also about the broader social psychological impact and the economic impact. There is no single national recovery plan. Where the need was highest, for example in the field of educational disadvantages, the recovery plans have already been launched. One example is the NPO, the National Education Programme, of 8.5 billion, to cover the corona-related delays in all educational sectors and in scientific research. That is not only cognitive, but also social-emotional. The Chamber will be informed about this shortly, in October. Then there are a whole series of other issues that have been discussed at the official level in terms of rehabilitation and renewal. We do this together with the fellow governments, universities and colleges of applied sciences. For example, it is a healthy and safe environment and the social and mental resilience of society. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll take a look at the questions about the care. A lot of questions have been asked this morning. There was a question about the serological test. At present, a serological test is not allowed to determine whether someone has experienced a corona infection. We're now investigating whether that test can be used. A motion has also been passed on it. In the short term, the OMT will provide an opinion within a few weeks on the conditions under which a serological examination can lead to a result that may be the basis for a corona admission certificate. The intensivecare capacity has been extensively debated in the last Corona debate. One of the tricky points here is that you need time to train sufficiently qualified and equipped staff. There is much more to be said about it, but perhaps for the sake of time I can refer to the extensive discussion we have had, at least the Chamber with the Minister of the United States, in the last Corona debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u158	There is a question at this point. Can you use the other microphone, Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u159	I have a few more questions about the care. Or would you prefer the interruptions in between?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u160	Yes. The right microphone isn't doing very well, so would you like to use the middle and left microphone? The other is repaired during the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u161	He's doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u162	Yeah, I do now, but maybe not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u163	He's interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u164	He's interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u165	Otherwise, I'm gonna be all the way in the left pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u166	Or in the middle, the wide middle!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u167	I'm gonna be sitting next to Mrs. Marijnissen!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u168	That would confirm my political position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u169	We're gonna try, but if he interrupts, your interruption will lapse, we'll just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u170	Can we get it from here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u171	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u172	The Prime Minister mentioned the ICUs, but you shouldn't have shut them down. Because that's what you did. I've rubbed it on you before: you've closed down five hospitals, sixteen emergency rooms and nineteen intensive care units in recent years. We now have 8,000 hospital beds and 140 ic-beds less than we had a few years ago. The Prime Minister always speaks praiseworthy words about care, but of course what he does is what he does, not what he says, but what he does. I would like to pass on two things from the budget to the Prime Minister. The rest will be included in the VWS budget, with Mr De Jonge. You say... Last year I made an interruption on the same point. It is now hidden a little further, on page 321 of the budget. There is a little muffled away, but it says that care takes place 50% more often in the living environment rather than in the care institutions. The mission will be 50% less care in the institutions by 2030. Read: We're closing down 50% of the nursing homes and hospitals. That's what it says, that's what it says. I told you that last year. I do not want to be referred to the Minister two years in a row, because it is exactly the same...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u173	No, I'm gonna answer it if you don't mind. Allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u174	I would like to ask a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u175	Can I get to this point...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u176	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u177	What you're saying is true is wrong. But I'd like to see it right on paper. Let's find out. I shall come back to it in the second term, and perhaps even in the first, if it can be given. I think you're rehearsing... There's panic at VWS now, but we're gonna answer this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u178	Page 321. Then a second. As you know, the expenditure on care is often agreed upon by broad agreement, especially in the hospital sector. A broad agreement on hospital care says that, where there has already been a very small space for growth in recent years, 0.3% this year, 0.6% in 2020 and 0.8% in 2019, for next year, for 2022, for medical-specialist care macro a maximum volume growth of 0.0% is available, excluding wage and price adjustment; but well, let that be for a while. Then you just say... We have major health problems, we need more people on the ICUs, we need more ICUs, we need more nurses, we need more intensives. Apart from their salary, we just need more people. And you're just saying zero volume growth. How will you explain this to the Netherlands? The Dutch think care is one of the most important themes there are, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u179	Mr. Wilders, if you had asked that question in your term, an entire battery of officials would have taken him down and I would have come here this morning to three layers prepared. I'm still gonna fix it. We are still trying in this period, so I will pass on this question to you as well. I could now, of course, give a flawless answer, but I would also like to give the officials the opportunity to advise me on this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a few questions from Mrs Marijnissen on some very important issues. Firstly, there was a question about class differences and health differences in the Netherlands. I'd like to say a few things about that. First of all, the corona crisis, which we are slowly leaving behind, but unfortunately not quite yet, has completely highlighted the importance of health for all Dutch people. The fact that there is a difference in life expectancy between practically skilled and theoretically trained people is a fact that has existed for decades. This applies not only to the difference in life expectancy, namely six years, but also to life in good health. The difference is even fifteen years. Of course, the good news is that the life expectancy of all Dutch people has increased in recent decades. This is because care has improved and there is better information on how to live healthy. Many Dutch take that responsibility. Health care and health itself, of course, are also linked to the security of life around income, work and safety. That is why, in my view, it is essential for us as politicians, and also for me and for our cabinet, that we continue to work to increase the life expectancy of all groups of the population. We do this by providing good care and increasing opportunities for good training and security at work. It also has to do with lifestyle and health promotion. That therefore also requires specific attention. For example, reducing smoking, for example, has a greater impact on the target group of practically skilled people. The number of smokers in this target group is still higher today than in the case of theoretical trained people. Smoking, of course, has all kinds of consequences for health and life expectancy. This is also in line with the recommendations of the Health and Society Council, which highlighted the importance of a comprehensive approach to health deficits this year. In the same context, it was also asked for its own risk. I would say that the funding of our care at its core is very social. When you're healthy, you pay for those who are sick, when you're young, you pay for the elderly, and when you make a lot of money, you pay for those on low incomes. In order to maintain the basis of support and solidarity, we also ask for a little extra from the people who make use of care. They pay their own risk. Own payments in the Netherlands are low: around 11% of total healthcare expenditure. This is 2% higher than in France, but again a lot lower than, for example, in Belgium, where it is 18% and in Switzerland, where it is 25%. The elimination of own risk would cost some EUR 6 billion in structural terms. I don't think that's wise, considering everything we have to do in the Netherlands. Then there was one final question on this point. Shouldn't dental care be back in the basic package? Here's what's going on. If for insured persons aged 18 or over the equivalent oral care would be included in the health insurance package as for insured persons under the age of 18, you are talking about an additional €2 billion expenditure. That means about €150 per insured person per year. It is always a question of money, but I think you should say that adults also have their own responsibility for the care of their teeth. Part of that care is to go to the dentist regularly. The then Minister for Medical Care, in his letter of 25 January, appointed the Chamber in response to parliamentary questions the way in which access to oral care for citizens can be improved with limited financial resources. This is possible, for example, through the use of customised budgets, such as municipal compensation schemes, the municipal policy and special assistance. Mr. Chairman. Finally, one question from Mrs Marijnissen on the Zorgbuurthuis initiative. In my opinion, I have listened carefully to this. It is important that every municipality should have the task of living and caring for the elderly as much as possible. A part of that task, of that job, which a municipality has, is to do something about the shortage of forms of housing that somehow combine different functions. We see this shortage everywhere in the Netherlands. Then I think of the local parties, that is the municipality, the housing corporation, the care and welfare organisations, elderly organisations and, for example, project developers, to fill that task. There are administrative agreements between ActiZ, Aedes, VNG, Zorgverzekerings Nederland and the ministries of BZK and VWS. It is being worked on that performance agreements on living and caring for the elderly will be made in each municipality in 2021. It also encourages the construction of small-scale housing initiatives. To this end, there is a separate Incentive Scheme for Living and Care. There is also an incentive scheme for meeting rooms. Both are expected to enter into force at the end of this year, at the end of 2021. These schemes can also be used for health care neighbourhoods. That remains to be done in response to the various questions put by Mrs Marijnissen. I think I have answered all the questions about care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u180	Thank you. I shall go first to Mr Wilders, then to Mrs Marijnissen, then to Mrs Simons and then to Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u181	I just have a question about your own risk. I have also committed this interruption before. I hear the Prime Minister talking mainly in macro terms: our own contributions are 2% more than in France, but less than in Germany. I'm sure all that's true, but I'd like to bring it a little bit to the micro level. You'll only be an older couple, or an older couple, who are luckily still a lot, 70 or 80 years old. Suppose, like a lot of people at that age, you need a lot of medication because of your blood pressure or I know what. What if you're both dependent on medication? Then it happens that more often than a few times, I can tell the Prime Minister that those older people already have to cough up €385 twice in one month in January. They can also be young people. If I count correctly, they have to pay €770 in one month. That's a big part of what they get from AOW. They'll have to pay it to the pharmacy alone. Perhaps you could respond to that. Macro will undoubtedly be about right. Maybe we do not agree that we want to abolish it and not you, but I want to see it at micro level. There are a lot of people who are approaching us too who are just having trouble with it at the beginning of the year. Or they don't take medication, they don't. Then you are a thief of your own wallet, because then they later go into hospital care with very serious diseases and to specialist care, and then they cost a lot more than if they had been reimbursed for those medicines. Either they're not gonna do other things: they're gonna get a rent lag or they're gonna buy less food. None of that's good either. Again, Mr. Prime Minister, those are not three or four people. There are a lot of people who see the system of that own risk coming on a massive scale in January or February. What do you say to these people? They have no use for a 2% difference with France.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u182	No, I totally get that. That's incredibly difficult at a small scholarship. The problem with this group of people is that they would often be able to use other municipal schemes that they, often proudly, do not use, for example, the special assistance. This applies not so much to the own risk, but to other expenditure that they have to do. I myself have seen incredibly sad situations during work visits, where people sit with a moldy refrigerator, for example, because they proudly do not want to use municipal facilities. So I'm totally seeing this. You can't just fix that. The fact is that it is highly justifiable in the system, I think, that you have this element of solidarity between people who use the care and those who do not use it. But if there are really poignant situations, you will always have to look in the municipalities to see what is possible. These municipalities can do the same; they also have the means to do so. Then perhaps it is not so much about the care allowance as about other expenditure that people have, because the problem is often much greater than just that own risk. The problem often also extends to the replacement of durable items in the home, such as refrigerators and washing machines, and other issues surrounding daily expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u183	Refrigerators and freezers don't break every year. They can be replaced once every few years, but their own risk comes back every year. The Prime Minister himself is right to say that the municipalities have no powers to do anything about it by means of a hardness clause or otherwise for those people. No one has those powers. So there are a lot of people who don't have it wide, but don't go to the municipality for a new fridge or whatever, who simply can't pay those costs of €770 in one month. Again, we do not agree on our own risk, because the PVV wants to get rid of it and you do not want to get rid of it. But could you think about it and come up with an arrangement for these kinds of people, often it's couples who really can't afford it in one month? Then it is not about the municipality as far as the other goods are concerned. Can you make sure that under the Health Insurance Act there is a kind of clause in which the insurer, the pharmacy or anyone else in such cases... I don't know if you should call it a hardness clause or otherwise, but I want people to think about whether we can arrange something for these people in situations like that. Would you mind thinking about that? I'm not asking you to take over our proposal. I will not accept your proposal either. But can you see for these people if there is a possibility? That's a very reasonable request, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u184	I know it's a technical disaster. We have, of course, looked at this more often. I thought I'd had that discussion here in the past with Emile Roemer, and with you too, Mr. Wilders. Let us take a look at what is difficult there and what may be possible, and what is at the same time associated with the special assistance. But then it really has to be about the group that is clearly clear about that. My view would be that we should ultimately maintain our own risk in the system. But I understand this group, of course. I do not believe that we need to convince each other how important it is to give an answer if we can, but that does not always work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u185	Thank you for that. Then again: it is not just about the municipalities, but also what the health insurance company or the pharmacy can do about it. I hope we get out. Maybe that won't happen, but I hope so. In any case, I welcome your undertaking to do so. Perhaps the Prime Minister could discuss this with Mrs Agema on our side for the VWS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u187	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen and then to Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u188	I hear the outgoing Prime Minister say that he thinks it is important to maintain its own risk. It is about solidarity in the system and acceptance, if I have listened carefully. But the question is, of course, whether it is. It is often said that it costs a lot of money, and that is what is being said again, and all this has to be paid for. But the point at its own risk is, of course, that costs are not reduced. The cost of care must of course be paid on the left or right. The only question is whether you pay it together, according to carrying capacity or deposit the account with older people who often had to pay their own risk in January. That is why my question is particularly to the outgoing Prime Minister why he thinks it is important for the support. In terms of cost, I say: we have to pay anyway. Wouldn't it be a lot more social to say that we pay that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u189	In the Netherlands, we have two very large systems which involve massive income transfers. That is social security and health insurance. And that's for very good reasons. This has to do with basic solidarity in our society, complementary to a progressive tax system. In that system of the Health Insurance Act and the funding of care, there is solidarity from the strong shoulders with the weaker shoulders in three ways. I just mentioned them: from healthy with sick, from young with old and from people who make a lot of money with people who earn less; for very good reasons. Quite apart from the fact that it costs 6 billion if you were to eliminate the risk, a huge amount that we would not be able to spend on other things, I think that for the balance within it you can say three times with a strong solidarity with some weaker.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And for that, that is a risk of its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u190	I think that in itself is rather an antisocial argument, because it would assume that people get sick for fun, need care for fun,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u191	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u192	... and that is of course not the case. The Prime Minister also says that it is not. It is also not the case in the Netherlands that you can just walk into a hospital and that you can use care there, to use that word even for a while. There's always a GP in there. The idea that it would also have some kind of cost-effective effect or that it would do something for the cost at all,... No, that 6 billion is now paid but then by people who need care, not because they need it for fun, but because the GP says: you have to go to the hospital, you need care. And that would cost money, of course. That is why my question is also whether the Prime Minister could not have a little more confidence in our general practitioners. They're not going to refer people to a hospital if there's no very good reason for that. We could also say that we have more faith in our general practitioners and that we have a fair deal. We could make sure that people who are unlucky enough to get sick because they are old or just once have bad luck in life, all of that can, then not be confronted with that €385. Let's trust our general practitioners and pay it all if people need care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u193	Absolutely trust in our general practitioners. My argument is not that people use unnecessary care. By the way, you can see in the calculations that care costs are expected to increase by about 2 billion extra if there is no own risk. But that's not my argument. My argument is not that people take unnecessary care. Not at all. My point is that I assume it is necessary if people are to use care, but I think it can be defended, even more so: find fit into a solidarity system. There are many solidarity elements of people who are stronger with people who are older or financially weaker or who, for whatever reason, really need to make use of health care. That solidarity is there, of healthy with sick, of young with old and of people with a good salary with people with a small scholarship. I believe that this element in the balance sheet in the system is also correct, but that is a view, because in the Netherlands we are already dealing with massive transfers of income along three lines: in this system, social security and, of course, our progressive tax system. I think that this counter-movement is highly justifiable within it, regardless of the cost aspect if you abolish it, but that is a view. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen, I have total confidence in our general practitioners, those are the gatekeepers. Yeah, it's gonna happen one day, but most of the GPs don't just send people to hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u194	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u195	I think the Prime Minister underestimates that for many people €385 a year is really a lot of money. I have already heard that we do not agree on the elimination of one's own risk. But I would like to ask something else, also in the light of the contribution of the VVD colleague of the outgoing Prime Minister. She spoke about market forces in the care sector and said that, as far as I am concerned, this market operation at the VVD might have been a sacred house for too long and that at the VVD too many shutters closed when the SP group asked critical questions about this. As we know, we do not believe that our concern is a market. These were, I believe, the wordings of Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u196	Yes. Shoulders up, arms together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u197	I must say that I also recognized that image from recent debates. That's right, I guess. I do remember a debate at the town hall in Arnhem that was exactly about this. The outgoing Prime Minister said: our concern has no market effect at all; no, that is not the case. I am glad that he will come back to that now, but I would like to know what this will mean in concrete terms. It is nice that at that point the shutters at the VVD open a bit further. I welcome that. Just now it was about living, now it's about caring; our care is not a market. But if he does, can the outgoing Prime Minister indicate what that means for people? What are we going to do about him now, other than in the past few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u198	To begin with, of course, it is also terms that we throw at each other. The SP accuses the VVD of "the freak out market in care," and then you see the VVDs pulling their shoulders up and putting the arms over each other. My view has always been that market forces in health care are very limited. I have no objection to that either. It actually runs along three lines. I mentioned them a short time ago today. One is that you make the performance of hospitals, doctors, nursing homes, etc., transparent and make use of it: something that is quite normal in business. This way you can really make choices based on objective information. That is very healthy, because that encourages everyone to perform better. The second is the Health Insurance Act. This is, of course, a core commercial system with commercial health insurance providers themselves. And that's fine with me. I don't think we need to change that. The third concerns the discussion on profit distribution, and I fully agree with Mrs Hermans. There are circumstances in which this distribution of profits can be useful, but that is not the case if it leads to the 'care cowboys', as she called it yesterday. Moreover, we must always have that debate open with each other. If someone comes up with something and says, "Well, here's an element for market operation that could work," then we shouldn't reject it in advance, but we shouldn't say: oh, it's market operation, so it's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u199	Mrs Simons, BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u200	I fully convinced Mrs Marijnissen, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u201	There will also be a budget VWS. Your microphone didn't work because I didn't turn it on; that was really my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u202	Okay, well. I'll be right here. I think this one was already cleaned. Right? Yes. I think Mrs Marijnissen is left behind with a feeling that I recognize: you asked a question, but after the answer, the bewilderment is greater than before you asked the question. I would therefore like to ask, perhaps partly on behalf of Mrs Marijnissen, what this answer given by the Prime Minister actually means, because then I can understand it, but also all those people at home who are watching and thinking: it was a lot of words, but what did he say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u203	I said that the element of market forces in the healthcare system along the lines of the Health Insurance Act does not change as far as I am concerned. I do not know whether the VVD Group shares that, but that is what Mrs Hermans is about. But the cabinet intends not to make any changes to that part of the market functioning in healthcare. Two. In all kinds of areas of care, the performance of the various surgeons, hospitals, nursing homes is becoming increasingly transparent, and I think that is very healthy. Then you can also make informed choices: where do I want to be operated on, which nursing home do I go to? We should not be afraid of transparency. That is just a lesson from the free market that you can apply very well in public sectors. And three, the discussion about the distribution of profits in health care. As far as I am concerned, it is not taboo, but I agreed with what Hermans said yesterday, namely that it should never lead to health cowboys.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u204	Then there's the question I came to the microphone for. We were just talking about oral care in the basic package. I know the Prime Minister likes numbers, likes numbers. We know that many of the health problems that people get start in the mouth. There are actually two places that are very important for health. That's the guts and that's the mouth. Many of these problems lead to medical problems and therefore automatically lead to more costs. The Radboud estimates the effects of dental disease at 3 billion, while if we were to invest in reducing oral care in the basic package, it would cost the Cabinet 1.9 billion. I'm not very good at numbers myself, but I can conclude that you're gonna have a little left over. Then we are not talking about all the extra jars that municipalities now have to use. I am referring to those complex arrangements which are not always followed by people who have to make use of them. And indeed, it is not at all nice to have to ask for help all the time if that can be solved quite differently. If we compare costs and benefits, I think we'll be cheaper if we bring back oral care in the basic package. I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u205	I sincerely disagree. If we had a money tree, I would very much agree, but I don't think you should. We are talking about an additional 2 billion in expenditure. Then you talk about about about €150 per insured person per year. We already have one of the most extensive health insurance packages in the world, even if you look at what is to be paid for in other countries. We have a very generous and very accessible healthcare system. If you added the mouth care for 18-plus again, that would cost a lot of money. I think that in a free country you can ask people to take good care of the teeth and that is also part of the fact that you regularly go to the dentist. That's normal household expenses. If this leads to problems, there can always be a commitment from customised budgets, municipal compensation schemes, the municipal policy and indeed as a final piece of special assistance. It sounds nice, but I think it's also our gift to keep some of the costs in the healthcare sector under control. I find it very justifiable that oral care 18-plus is not in the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u206	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u207	It is not for nothing that I said at the introduction of my question that those figures are known. The consequences of dental diseases cost us more money than investing in oral care in the basic package. In fact, I think that is something you cannot say: I do not agree with. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's Those are numbers, and those are facts. I find it problematic that the suggestion is raised that anyone with mouth problems has problems because they do not brush their teeth properly. That's nine times out of ten not at all the cause of dental problems. To say "everyone has their own responsibility; then you only have to brush your teeth twice a day," is too short. I sit at the dentist myself very often and brush my teeth very nicely. I even get compliments from the dentist that my oral hygiene is so good... but have a lot of trouble in the mouth. That has nothing to do with whether I do it properly or not. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's We are all getting older and older, which is very nice, but that also means...A few generations ago, the Prime Minister and I would already have a full denture at this age. That has nothing to do with personal responsibility. So I'll just come back to the facts and the figures. It is cheaper and it is more accessible to everyone, because there are now also people who, for whatever reason, are not allowed to use all those jars, which just make it more complicated. So there must be another reason why the Prime Minister is so opposed to this. So we could abolish or at least drastically reduce all those jars, which cost us money and are also paid by taxpayers, if we do not make people dependent on them, but simply reduce oral care in the basic package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u208	Again, we have to make choices. I fully agree with Mrs Simons that it is very wise to brush your teeth twice a day, but that is not a guarantee that you will not have any problems. There are a lot of people, I know them in my environment too, which, despite very careful oral hygiene, still have a lot of problems in their mouths and cost them too. That's just a fact. Once I've given that impression, I'd like to put it right here. On the contrary, I certainly don't look at it that way. I do look at it in such a way that in the end we have to put some brakes on this type of cost, because our health care is getting so big that it is increasingly so much so that I have already mentioned the word 'cuckoo boy' once today to push other spending out of the nest. We have to make choices in the scarcity. It's huge sums of money. I do not know Mrs Simons's research, but I can imagine that it will be involved in the VWS budget and that there will be a debate about a possible cost advantage. You say "3 billion," "Erasmus University," but I don't know the research. Those are, of course, relevant discussions to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u209	Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u210	Radboud.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u211	Radboud. But those are of course interesting discussions to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u212	Then I will go to Mrs Hermans van de VVD, Mr Van Haga and Mrs Den Haan. Then we suspend for a very short time and then we move on to the following section: security and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u213	My arms over each other and shoulders up; that is now beginning to get a one-sided explanation of how I said it yesterday. Anyway, for the sake of time, I'm gonna leave that for now. Mrs Marijnissen and I will come and talk about it again. I have a question about catching up after the Corona Year. If I listened carefully to the outgoing Prime Minister, he would say that there would be no separate plan for that. That wasn't my question either. It was much more about: how is it now? Is there a good view of what the overall size of the catching-up care is? Is there any good direction on this matter? Am I going to use the word again to help people who are waiting for surgery or any other kind of treatment after corona as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u214	There is. Then I misinterpreted Mrs Hermans' question. I just answered it differently. This question is much more specific and concerns the operations and other concerns that had to be postponed. A report by the NZa on its size has recently been published. But we are going to do the answer a little more structured: in the second term we are going to serve Mrs Hermans on this, and perhaps even in this period. I just misunderstood the question. I thought the question was broader and was about the national recovery plan. But it's really very specific about catching up. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u215	There are a few more questions from Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u216	Yeah, they're gonna be around sometime this afternoon, tonight or tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u217	I had also asked the question about the corona policy. That question was: can the Prime Minister imagine that at some point you will end up in a parliamentary inquiry or perhaps even before a judge, that you will then have to answer for what happened and that might even result in punishment? I have tabled a motion for a parliamentary inquiry together with Mr Wilders before. I understand that this is difficult in this constellation, but can you imagine and take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u218	Of course, a parliamentary survey can always be done, but I don't have criminal prosecution on the radar, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u219	I have asked written questions and I have already asked Mr De Jonge about them once. If you have a report in front of you at some point that shows you're winning 100,000 years of life by setting a lockdown, but the same report indicates that you're destroying 620,000 years of life, making the net balance minus 520,000 years of life, I think that's quite something. If you willfully decide to set a lockdown, then I think a judge may at some point consider it. The same goes for the ic-beds. If the ic-beds are the problem and you decide not to do anything about scaling up the number of ic-beds for a year and a half, then I think that's quite a misdemeanor. This morning we read in De Telegraaf that young people were simply absorbed in the corona vaccines with dances with Jansen after the OMT had advised on this. That just turned out to be a lie. It wasn't OMT advice at all, but it turned out to be a broken cooling in Nieuwegein. Of course, that is a political balance, which must be dealt with politically, but I can imagine that there is sufficient ground to bring that to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u220	That's not up to me. But if the first point you are making is true, then the whole European Council will be in prison in no time. Then we can meet there, because of course this applies to all countries in Europe. We have all introduced lockdowns to prevent care from overloading and to protect our vulnerable. If Mr Van Haga is right, we will no longer have to go to Brussels, but then we will have to find a joint prison in which we will be sitting with 28, at least now 27 Heads of Government. Then we combine the prison and the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u221	Well, the report exists. The report was known and yet that lockdown is set. Even the WHO says you shouldn't do a lockdown at all. You can do that all the way at first, if you're panicking, but that's all. But there's been deliberate two more lockdowns, causing people to die. I do not think that this is something to just step over and say: we should only sit in prison with 28 or 27 political leaders. No, this is serious. 520,000 years of life have been deliberately destroyed. That decision was made on purpose. I wouldn't be so light-hearted about that. Anyway, the Prime Minister is talking about his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u222	I can't do anything with it. Corona policy is aimed at protecting people with vulnerable health and at preventing them from becoming overburdened. If we hadn't done what we did in the middle of March last year and before Christmas, that would have happened. Then our vulnerable would have been in serious danger and the care would have been completely overloaded. Then people who came there for other things would not have been allowed access and eventually people with corona could not have been helped. You'd have gotten code black. I find that unacceptable. That is why we have taken these measures. This applies not only to the Netherlands, but to all European countries, to America and to many countries in the rest of the world. It's not rock science either. It's about how to fight a pandemic. Unfortunately, you do the same for a disease like corona by limiting the contacts. That was necessary because of the enormous extent of the infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u223	I realise that in my first term I did not ask an explicit question about the Prevention Agreement. I have indicated that I think it could be a little more ambitious. I also understand if you cannot answer that now. The aim of the Prevention Agreement is, of course, not only to achieve health benefits, but also to save costs. Interest groups have been working for years to ensure that we really do our best to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u224	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u225	There are 39 goals that we should have achieved by the end of 2020. Only 13 were made. Of course, that's partly because of corona. I was just curious if the Prime Minister could tell me what else we're going to do with each other to achieve those goals as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u226	At least that's the ambition. It's true, of course, that Corona has put us at a disadvantage. There is broad political support for the prevention approach. Paul Blokhuis has, of course, also defended the proposals here. I think he did that in committee meetings. I believe that there is broad parliamentary support for precisely those two objectives. The first came out in my conversation with Mrs Marijnissen: an improvement in the quality of life. If people smoke less and eat healthier, it will, of course, produce enormous health benefits. In the end, people decide for themselves. We're a free country. But this information can help a lot. You can stimulate it a little bit. Mrs Den Haan is quite right, of course, that Corona has put us at a disadvantage. That's true. Of course, you can see this in the whole of care, in the delays in treatments, but also in these issues. We are all very motivated to implement this agreement as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u227	I knew you were gonna say that, which is why I told you myself that Corona put us at a disadvantage. Of course, only 13 out of the 39 objectives are really lean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u228	Sure. That's why we want to do everything we can to get more, but in the end we are a free country. When people continue to smoke, they continue to smoke. Then you can say that it is no longer allowed here in the room and no longer in a restaurant and you name it. You can make things more complicated in every possible way, but I also have to deal with an informant who is still rolling the shag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u229	Yeah, I noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u230	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u231	I had also asked a question, or actually made a comment about that failing policy of simply giving people basic protection against a notoriously unhealthy living and food environment. We have indeed seen the building blocks for the next cabinet, but I would like to remind the outgoing Prime Minister once again that many people in the corona pandemic were really surprised that very strict measures must and can be imposed to combat a virus, but that the protection of the population, of children, of harmful emissions from companies, of the earning model of fast food chains, of the profit models of the Coca Colas of this world, has never been in it. So I'd really like to have a look through it. Are we going to go into the formation and can we also agree on this budget? Making other choices because we're gonna take it seriously that people are entitled to an environment that isn't sickening?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u232	In general terms: yes. I hope to join that formation myself. I hope that the formation will begin as soon as possible. Of course, I cannot make any further commitments about this from my position as I stand here, but I sincerely hope so. I would also like to make a distinction between prevention, good information, lifestyle and so on, which I have just spoken to Mrs Den Haan, which has an impact on the quality of life but also on the cost of health care, and whether or not to eat meat and whether or not to drink coke. This also applies to the fact that information can come a long way. I think that opinions may differ a little as to how far you can enforce that, through taxes or other measures. However, these are, of course, political issues which are also the subject of a formation. Finally, of course, there is the question of quality, for example air quality, also in some agricultural areas. We have, of course, seen this in East Brabant, where there have been major problems in the past concerning goat farming and the diseases that have arisen from it. That, of course, has taught us lessons about how important it is that our agricultural sector, in the end, also has a licence to operate and keeps and contributes to a beautiful nature and a beautiful country and does not reduce the quality of life, which unfortunately has happened a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u233	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u234	I misspelled it. I said, "I want to take a look at the formation." So I shouldn't have said that, but my question was as follows. This cabinet has been responsible for the fact that there were all fine words about prevention, but has chosen to do so through an agreement, non-binding and self-regulation. And now we see that that has failed. There is a package of building blocks that a next cabinet can use, but I would very much like a reflection so that that decision-making... Mrs Hermans also mentioned this. What can this outgoing cabinet do to ensure that the next cabinet can get to grips with the problems? Then I'd think you'd be doing a clear analysis, saying, "Hey, freedom, happiness for the McDonaldsen and the Coca-Colas of this world, and by the way, if there's an extra risk of pneumonia if you live nearby, it's a very stupid idea. Our advice to the next cabinet to solve these major problems with people's health is that we are going to protect people's basic health more strictly and set stricter rules on the emission of dirty substances and on a healthy food environment. And by the way, the tax increase on fruit and vegetables was a very stupid idea. We suggest that the next cabinet abolishes it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u235	I think it's a mix. I do believe in a prevention agreement for a large part of what is going on here, but that does not solve everything. When I talk about emissions, of course. There are also legal standards. They will need to be tightened on parts. Questions relating to certain activities in agriculture that you now know are also at risk for public health have to be faced with each other. I fully agree with Mrs Ouwehand that something must also be done there in the sphere of standardisation. Personally, I am less enthusiastic about all kinds of expectations raised by taxes on certain behaviours. Anyway, there are parties who think differently, like Mrs Ouwehand's. So that's what you have to see in a formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u236	Thank you. I suggest we suspend briefly for five minutes. Then we'll move on to the security and justice section. I'm suspending the meeting until about 5:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u237	I shall resume the debate. I would ask Members to take their place. I hope that the other leaders will also be coming to box K soon, because we are now moving on to the next section, security and justice. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u238	Mr. Chairman. Before I come to justice and security, one more thing on the previous subject, because I want to have said that here. Many sectors in the Netherlands have had a very hard time in the last year and a half and sometimes they still have a hard time. Many companies in all sectors were involved, but I would also like to mention the cultural sector once in this debate. It is sometimes snowed under in those discussions, but of course it has been incredibly heavy there. To some extent that is still the case, even though fortunately there can be a lot more. I think that we all have a great deal of respect for our orchestras and musicians, for our actors, for our cabaretists and for the other sectors of culture that have managed to survive under very difficult conditions and have tried to continue to do their craftsmanship and their contribution to this society. So that's what I wanted to say here once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u239	Thank you to the outgoing Prime Minister for these words. I think the people who work in culture, musicals, bands and actors, are very happy to get a valued word from the cabinet. It's been too long. So very nice! Mr. Chairman. Soon we will be talking in the House of Representatives about the cultural sector in the coming period, a period in which there are still restrictions and the cultural sector is still facing all kinds of financial problems. Those are after-effects, but also the financial problems that are just happening right now. I am not going to do that debate here in advance, but I would nevertheless like to say to the Prime Minister that it would be greatly appreciated by all the people working in the cultural sector and by us as spectators if we could continue with a form of financial support. That's really necessary. If he can weigh that up and give it to the members of his cabinet who do that debate, that would be appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u240	Here's to it. Through you, Mr President, please send this section of the shorthand report to my fellow Members, with my signature underneath!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u241	We can replace each other in a minute, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u242	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u243	On behalf of the D66 Group, I agree with what Mrs Ploumen said. Thank you for these warm words for the arts and culture sector. The art and culture sector was the great missing in the king's further beautiful throne speech. That sector, which we all missed so much in the corona pandemic, was unfortunately not in that eulogy. This has been well restored by the outgoing Prime Minister. Indeed, we will soon be discussing in greater detail the support package for the cultural sector. Due to the rules we have left from the corona pandemic, that sector will need a little longer to recover. I would therefore like to call on the cabinet to look also at the EU Member States which, in their support packages, have much more regard for the longer period that the culture sector will need to return to the old level. I refer in particular to the museums, which have often had no visitors at all for a year and a half. I am also thinking of the theatres, the dance companies and the theatre companies where a lot of temporary contracts have been lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u244	Thank you. We'll get that involved. I'll pass that on to my colleagues, too. So I understand that there will be a debate about it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u245	I see that Mr Klaver agrees with the comments made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u246	Mr. Chairman. Then a few questions were asked about justice and security. It might be a suggestion that I do them in a row, because there aren't that many, about six. The first question is about everything, because it is: how do we invest in dealing with organised crime and do we really do enough? I think that more must always be done, but what we do do is to approach it from a broad and long-term perspective. In this sense, I think we are learning from Italy, because this requires permanent attention. Investigation and prosecution includes investment in the comprehensive enforcement and criminal justice chain. Two. The supply and disposal of drugs is a huge problem in the Netherlands. This requires better security of our mainports and other logistics nodes. Then, by means of a targeted approach, prevent the recruitment of our youth by criminals in vulnerable neighbourhoods, with much more focus on agents in those neighbourhoods. Fourthly, making it more unattractive to make criminal money, disrupting money flows and taking illegally earned assets and assets. Securing the guardians of our rule of law is an absolute priority. In addition, the system will be monitored and secured in the coming years by structural strengthening and additional investment in protection and security from the employers' side. Therefore, measures can now be taken by the Public Prosecutor and the Court of Justice to provide additional protection for the employees in the front line. Then we also invest internationally, making use of experience and knowledge in other countries. Indeed, Mr Wilders: Italy, but also other countries in the European Union and in South and Central America. International cooperation also extends to treaties and agreements with other countries, in order to prevent criminals from seeking a safe place there. Let me give you an example of the agreement with the United Arab Emirates. Finally, further research into the factors involved in the criminal establishment climate in the Netherlands. The factors of punitive gravity and detention regime and point mentioned by Mr Wilders are involved. As a result, I would like to comment on a number of examples mentioned by Mrs Hermans. One. More likely to intervene in early criminal family relationships. With a strong additional approach to prevention in vulnerable neighbourhoods, we want to take a major step in preventing young people from starting a "criminal career." The approach is aimed at offering opportunities and setting limits. Two. A point by Mrs Hermans. The mayor should be able to inform his colleagues about a shady case that's moving. The bill Bibob (second tranche) is currently in the Lower House and includes a tip power between administrative bodies. If, therefore, municipality X has information indicating that the person concerned is related to criminal offences or to something for which administrative penalties may be imposed, a tip may be given to another municipality in the near future. Point three. Ensure that Customs, FIOD and OM do not run into obstructive privacy rules in order to exchange information. There is European privacy legislation. This means that not everything can be done, but for some of the partnerships specifically mentioned, the government intends to create a legal basis for the provision of data for the joint processing of data through the WGS legislative proposal. That's for treatment in the First Chamber now. For those forms of organised, undermining crime that threaten national security and democratic rule of law, MIT is established. In doing so, the government follows up on the Dijkhoff/Herma motion, in which it was asked to share all the information within one team, so that there is perseverance in the approach. Point four. Burden of evidence in the event of the removal of several convicted criminals with expensive cars and watches. Here, of course, the principle of innocence is the first in criminal law, i.e. the presumption of the innocence of a suspect. The reversal of the burden of proof is not compatible with that principle. What can be done, however, is to rely on the assumption of evidence under the legislation of withdrawal, namely that expenditure incurred by the convicted person during the period of six years prior to committing that crime constitutes an unlawful advantage. Furthermore, we are working on a so-called non-conviction based confiscation, the NCBC procedure, which is the confiscation of assets without prior conviction of a person for the purpose of plotting or committing a criminal offence. That bill will be in consultation this autumn. A question from the CDA. Could money and goods be taken away from society, or should they even be re-destined? In response, a pilot will be launched this year to explore the possibilities for social redevelopment. In doing so, occasionally collected criminal assets or goods are returned to the neighborhood. In Tilburg and Rotterdam some good examples have already been realized. The suggestion to develop this into a recovery fund is a very interesting thought. In this case, the objects or funds should be taken occasionally, and they should be used in programmes or projects. I would therefore like to promise that the cabinet will examine these possibilities and framework conditions, and will also look into the relationship with the legislative proposal that I have just mentioned about this NCBC procedure, the non-conviction based confiscation. Your Chamber will be informed by the Minister of JenV by letter. The VVD asked: what does the cabinet do to prevent radicalisation and what can the intelligence services do? First of all, Mr President, the local approach is central to tackling extremism and terrorism. This is also a successful formula in the Netherlands. This is where municipalities direct and cooperate with a large number of partners. They do this almost literally in the capillaries of neighborhoods and neighborhoods. The district agents, the youth workers, the teachers and the other frontline workers have been trained in recognizing signals of radicalisation and extremism. Signals are discussed in the Case Consultation Radicalisation, which can take concrete actions. Unfortunately, undesirable influence through foreign funding of organisations in the Netherlands also contributes to a breeding ground for radicalisation. Therefore, with a package of legislation, the cabinet aims to increase transparency around such funding and to create the opportunities to intervene in such money flows. The AIVD investigates persons and organisations that pose or may pose a threat to national security and the democratic legal order. The AIVD continues this investigation into known and emerging forms of extremism, radicalisation and terrorism and, for example, alerts with ministerial messages where possible chain partners, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, to provide an action perspective. We're gonna stick with the AIVD report. The additional investment of 30 million from the cabinet in the two services will be used for technological innovation, cyber and an additional investigation into right-wing extremism and the coherent threat of violence. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Volt about the signals from the Cyber Security Council. Are they taken sufficiently seriously? In response to this question, the cabinet recognises the importance of cybersecurity for Dutch society and economy. Under the current cabinet there is structural investment in cybersecurity. The increasing digitalisation and development in the threat picture requires additional commitment. The CSR's call, the Cyber Security Council, for a comprehensive approach to cyber security and to continue investing, is fully endorsed by the Cabinet. It's a big deal. We believe that it will also be absolutely the responsibility of the next cabinet to further develop this. Perhaps that would happen earlier in debates in this Chamber, if that were necessary because the formation would be too slow. I don't expect that, and I certainly hope not. I come to my response to the WRR report and to the investigation published last Monday into a national security planning agency and the National Security Council. That was a question from Mr Heerma. ABDTOPConsult conducted an investigation into a safety planning agency following the Heerma/Segers motion. The ABDTOPConsult report does not propose the establishment of such a planning agency, but rather the establishment of a national security council, as mentioned by the CDA. As far as we are concerned, it is now up to the next cabinet to actually assess this on its merits. Then there is the question of the SP: why did money become available so late for the social lawyer? I think it is a good thing that the debate on this has ended and that we can turn our backs on the process of renewal towards a future-proof system. Those seeking justice have also been able to count on legal aid in recent years. The number of social lawyers has fallen slightly, but always sufficient to provide for the work. That is a real compliment to the profession. With the Klever/Ploumen motion, following the debate on the child care allowance affair, last year a majority signed up to invest extra in legal aid. Once again, that is what happened to this budget. Those were the answers to the questions about Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u247	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mr Wilders and then to Mr Azarkan. Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u248	The Prime Minister and everyone in the Netherlands have seen what happened this year. Last year there was Taghi's arrest. I call the murder of Peter R. de Vries. Terrible mob gangs are directly responsible for this. I think we can say that hard drugs are the poison of our society. Hard drugs are the poison of our society. This also means that we must realise that anyone who uses hard drugs is partly responsible for the misery that is being poured out over our country and that the drug traffickers, the Taghis of this world, the mocromafia, the Dutch mafia or anyone else is involved in drugs, can only exist by the grace of the users. The government has a duty to tackle hard-drug users. I do not understand why we in the Netherlands have made possession, trafficking and selling of drugs a criminal offence, but that, according to the OM Directive, the possession of a small amount of hard drugs for their own use is not prosecuted and traced. If the police encounter it, it will be removed from traffic, but nothing will happen, especially at first offenders. I have more questions, Madam President, but I think this is very important. We all have plans for it. I myself mentioned Italy, so did the Prime Minister. We need to be rigorous with the user. Whether it's a small amount of cocaine or a small amount of heroin, whether it's ecstasy pills, we have to take that hard. Does the Prime Minister agree with me and is he going to change this, or at least encourage the prosecution to arrest and prosecute owners of a small amount of hard drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u249	I understand this question 100% and I am also upset when I read reports about tens of thousands of lines that seem to be used weekly or daily in the big cities, because I think the idiots who do that maintain that system. The fact that there is a billion-dollar business set up in the Netherlands by the Taghis and other families in the Netherlands that do so is truly terrible. Nevertheless, this is also a question of capacity: what can you bet on and what can you not bet on? I would like to make a proposal to Mr Wilders, also in relation to what he said about Italy. I would like to make a proposal to him, given the Italian approach. I have called that WODC research "the organisation of good name and fame" and we have always made good use as a political use of the reports that result from it "the factors that play a role in the criminal establishment climate." It includes the elements "facilitating" which are in line with the Italian examples of Wilder's criminal gravity and detention regime. I think that this issue of punishment is also interesting to bring to the attention of the public, together with ultimately capacity. Because if you do what he is proposing, if you see these numbers, I totally understand the frustration or rather the irritation about what is happening there; I agree with Wilders, of course, that has consequences for the use of police and justice. So we have to find a balance in that. Maybe I can make that practical suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u250	Yes. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u251	Yeah, but we're a country where you can have ecstasy pills tested at parties. And what's normal? That's what people say: better they test and then use, than they don't test and use wrong stuff. We all tolerated it. And the moment you tolerate that and have it all tested, perhaps with good intentions in terms of public health... If we want to prevent this, we simply have to say rigorously that we are tackling hard drugs everywhere, by anyone, much or little. Because once again, this is the poison of our society. People who are right to say who with common sense isn't? It is a pity and anger that we in the Netherlands have had murders because of the Taghis of this world and all the gangs around it, talk with double tongues if they do not say that we should also tackle users. We're gonna have to be tough on the users. You can take it with you, but I would also like you to say explicitly that we are going to prosecute and combat the use of minimum amounts of hard drugs wherever it is, whether in certain scenes in Amsterdam or at parties with ecstasy or whatever. The second point is more police. My group has 1 billion more for next year's police. If we can put that away, but I think we can. Of course, we also need more agents. We need more trackers. In Brabant, but also in other parts of the Netherlands, many people know where the laboratories are, but there is not always enough police to deal with them. So invest in extra police. That's that three-stage missile, more police and Article 41a of the Italian penal code. That is the so-called hard regime to tackle, isolate and treat the mocromafia there or the mafia there. Fortunately, the Prime Minister is taking that with him, but I stand by it: look at the use at the small level as well. Because if we don't take on the little guys, we don't have a right to talk about the big guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u252	Everyone in Amsterdam, The Hague or anywhere else who sniffs a line of coke is part of a system of serious crime that involves many, many billions of people. It is totally undermining our rule of law, which also scares many Dutch people, and that is terrible. I just want to make commitments here that I can deliver. I also really want to know what it means for the search and what it means for the law enforcement balance if we were to do exactly what Wilders is proposing here, so I think it should be part of the WODC investigation. The Italian approach is already part of that. As far as the police are concerned, I agree with him. We're trying to figure out how to further increase police capacity. Additional money has also been made available in this budget for security. Discussions are currently taking place between political groups on a further adjustment of the budget. I can imagine that security is once again a part of that, and if it is not now, hopefully with a more extensive adjustment of the budget by the formation or by this Chamber later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u253	Finally. Once again, the fact that there is not enough police has certainly not been up to us, because we have always said that we need more police. My colleague Helder has been advocating this for years and has good cover for it. You've made for less police. You shut down those neighborhood offices. Anyway, let's leave that for a while. That'll come back later. I would like to hear from you, in my opinion, it is not in the WODC approach that tracking and prosecuting it at the time you find it is included, including first offenders who use a small amount of hard drugs. If you cannot answer that now and if you want to look at it, at least I want a piece to come to the Chamber before the budget of justice so that we can discuss it. We have to take that seriously. We must prevent murders in the Netherlands by detecting them, by punishing them, but we must also discourage small-scale use by picking them up and prosecuting them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u254	In terms of direction, I agree with you. I am not going to make the concrete commitment, because I really want to see the consequences of this. That is why I would like to ask, also through the microphone, President, whether it is possible to make it part of the WODC investigation and, if not, whether it can lead to a separate letter to the Chamber before the budget of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u255	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK and then to Mrs Marijnissen. Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u256	The Prime Minister was just talking about social law. Over the past four and a half years, five years from the opposition, we have talked quite firmly with Sander Dekker about the miserable plans of the cabinet. You can see a change of heart that's finally gonna bring in a lot of money. We're very happy about that. But what does that mean for the other plans, such as the triage and the marketing of social law? Are they still going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u257	Mr. Chairman. I wasn't prepared for that. That question was not asked in the first period. So I really need to take that in the second term. I'm not exactly ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u258	Then we'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u259	I do not think that question was asked in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u260	The Prime Minister is right. It's a supplement. That question wasn't asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u261	That's not a big deal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u262	No, no. I'm glad you got that in the second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u263	But I don't want to go freestyle now. I think it would be a good idea to get back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u264	The Prime Minister will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u265	Thank you for the Prime Minister's desire to return to that in the second term. I would like to refer to yesterday's judge's ruling in the case of a number of organizations in relation to the Royal Marechaussee. It was about ethnic profiling. That's in this block, too. That statement is problematic in a number of respects. The judge has actually confirmed that a person's origin or colour, i.e. the characteristic "non-white Dutchman" may in itself be used alongside a number of other characteristics. I was shocked by that and many organisations with me. I'm curious to see how the Prime Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u266	That court ruling just came up. I don't know if the state or the military court is gonna appeal, so I'm not gonna say anything about that right now. That's still formally under the judge. Only after the judge has finally discussed this can I speak about it in the political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u267	In itself, the State is not a party, but the Royal Marechaussee is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u268	That's the state.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u269	Yeah, that's right. It is not a question of criminal law, by the way. This is administrative law. However, I would like to know from the Prime Minister how he looks at this, because it really offers room for manoeuvre as it did with the Tax Office. There was also selected for the relationship between nationality and other characteristics. This leads to unjust outcomes. I am extremely afraid of that, because this can be processed in algorithms, which means that we will treat groups of Dutch people differently on the basis of where they live, where they come from or what skin colour they have. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u270	No. That case is really still under the judge. I just don't have to do that, because I don't know if another right step will be taken. So I shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u271	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Marijnissen of the SP and then Mr Jetten. Mrs. Marijnissen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u272	About the police, anyway. I think I heard it right that the outgoing Prime Minister said: we're investing in extra agents. But the opposite is true. We've had a lot of cuts in our security lately, especially on police officers. Declarations remain on the shelf. I also mentioned in my speech the district agent who barely has time to be on the streets and the major cuts that have been made in the ggz, the mental health care, which means that a lot of tasks come on the board of the police. The boas are on the news again today. The police unions are constantly writing letters of fire and taking action, because the workload is far too high. And that's why my question is: if we look back now, even in the past period, then the party that always pretends to be so for safety has put our security at risk very often.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u273	The Netherlands has gone through one of the worst recessions after the war; I have said it before today. We had to reverse 51 billion and weigh up burdens. It was inevitable that savings had been made on all aspects of the economy and that measures had to be taken. Safety is as generous as possible. As much relief as possible. But it didn't work out at all. Fortunately we are much better in the meantime and there is also room to invest. You can see that in this budget. Hundreds of millions more are being allocated to safety, and that is good news. But I'm not running away from responsibility. In difficult times, even when I was Prime Minister, savings were made on various aspects of the government in the Netherlands. We had to, otherwise we would never have been able to put that recession behind us. We are one of the fastest growing economies in the world because we were prepared to intervene in difficult times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u274	Yeah, but that doesn't seem to me like the outgoing Prime Minister is doing anything very important. Let me highlight one thing, for example the cuts in the ggz, which lead to police officers being very often sent to confused people, as it is called. This creates a higher workload for them, but in addition, confused people need care and should not be ejected by a police officer and landed at a police station. They need care. It was, therefore, austerity that was also very shortsighted, for it led, for example, to a huge increase in the workload of the police. The police say about the extra investments that have now been announced: it's actually carrying a bucket of water to a blowout fire. Our policemen don't just say that. How does the outgoing Prime Minister judge such a statement when he says he has such high regard for our security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u275	We expect a great deal from our police. Mrs Marijnissen rightly calls for attention to be paid to that point of the ggz and what that means for the use of our police. We have to face that very well. If there is room to invest again, we certainly should not fail to do so. Fortunately, in the years to come, the budget as it stands is going to make additional investments, including in our security. And maybe more will happen today or next week. We'll see. I think that's right, too. At the same time, there is another problem. That is what we see in the care, in the police and also in education, namely that it is extremely difficult to get all the vacancies filled, because there is also a shortage of people who are willing to fill those jobs in many areas. There are just too few people for all these vacancies. This also applies to business. So that's another special problem we have. It's not easy, but we're in good shape as a country. This means that investment is possible in this area too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u276	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u277	Yeah, we're in good shape, but that's because those cops don't give up, I'd like to say. Yet it is they that time and time again... It is said by the Prime Minister that we have deficits. There is currently a job vacancy summit, even with the police, while so many extra people are needed. They say: we are not getting out; there are far too few people in training, because there is far too little investment in it. That is going to cause a lot of problems in the coming years. Those problems are gonna get on the sign with our policemen who go out on the streets every day. I find that irresponsible. I also think it would be a credit to the Prime Minister if he admitted it and not just said: yes, there were economic bad times and we had to cut back. No, our policemen paid that bill, and to this day they're doing it, even though they're keeping our country safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u278	The whole of society has paid the bill for a major economic recession. Difficult measures have also been taken in the field of security. Not everything we wanted was possible. A few weeks ago, I was visiting a police station in the Bollenstreek. I was very impressed by how cops there do their work under sometimes difficult circumstances. They are extremely motivated and extremely expert. They know society. They know the capillaries, unlike in many other countries where a kind of national police is flown in that is not rooted. This is different from our national police: in these countries, as it were, agents are always distributed nationally and therefore do not know the local society. The fact that the police know society here has an enormous added value: from safety in the streets to recognition of radicalisation and extremism in time. I just named that, too. But that doesn't solve all the problems. So much remains to be done in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u279	First of all, it is very good that there is extra money in this budget for legal aid after years of struggle by Van Nispen, Groothuizen, Ploumen and Klaver. The Prime Minister just said that we could put a line on that discussion, but that might be a little premature. We will see that in the JenV budget, because there is also something for the coming years. Here's what I'm gonna do. Mr Wilders and the Prime Minister had just had a debate on drugs. I was listening to that and I heard a lot of tough language over and over again. It was actually some kind of war-on-drug story from both sides. We also know from recent years in the Netherlands, in the USA and in other countries that a war on drugs often leads to more war, more drugs and certainly not to better public health. It is not for nothing that last Friday 40 mayors, especially many of VVD and CDA, made the call to take real steps in the regulation of weed cultivation in the context of tackling undermining crime. Weed plantations in neighborhoods and young boys who start dealing on the street: it provides all kinds of insecurity and unviability in the neighborhoods, but it is also a hypocritical system. It is not for nothing that VVD and D66 wrote in the main agreement last summer: "We also tackle the profit model of the drug lords at the source." My question to the outgoing Prime Minister is as follows. We are now starting experiments in ten municipalities for the regulated growing of weed. I'm getting a call right now from those 40 mayors. They say: yes, my city actually wants to participate in those experiments. Is he open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u280	That is why Mr Jetten himself is in the Chamber. You're here all the time, so I'm sure you're okay with the bells. Or are they really calling you all 40 permanently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u281	Well, at least for the last few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u282	Okay, then I believe it. I think a distinction should be made between soft and hard drugs. As far as we're concerned, we've been running these experiments. I find it very exciting what comes out of that and whether we can get into that. Mr Wilders did not raise the issue of soft drugs. The strength in the Netherlands is that soft drugs can be obtained in places where not even hard drugs are obtained, so the dealer doesn't say: here I have some stuff for you to smoke, but hey, if you want something heavier, I have it with me. That is precisely why, in the Netherlands, we still have a reasonable distinction between soft drugs and drugs with a relatively low risk, even though not without.... and hard drugs. Wilders asked attention to the tens of thousands of lines of coke that are apparently being sniffed every day in the big cities and that these people probably all have very chic views about our society and debate about the future of this country. They sometimes do not realize that by doing so they contribute to a deep, deep criminal system. That's what Wilders asked attention to. But that's really a different discussion. Back to your question. We need to see what comes out of those experiments and just learn lessons from them. This also brings me to your question yesterday: what is the status of the piece that you and I, at least D66 and VVD, have made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u283	Let's do it separately in a minute. I'd like to continue on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u284	I thought it would be useful to take it with me right away! No? Okay. I thought I'd serve you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u285	Well, I understand your answer to drugs. Let's get to the bottom of that first. I also see, of course, the big difference between hard drug laboratories in Brabant and other places in the country and the effects that it has. But mayors also indicate that the whole pot chain is often a kind of boarding model. You start with a few plants. It's easy to make money out of that. That gets bigger and bigger and eventually you think: I make so much money now, let me get into the hard drug world. That's why the mayors' plea: if you want more quality of life and more security in the neighborhood, please regulate the back door of the coffeeshop chain better. That's why it's good that this cabinet started the experiments. The Senate will soon be able to judge a D66 initiative law to finalize its legalisation. But between the ten experiments we're going to start, there are no really big cities, for example. I know that the city of Utrecht, with a very passionate mayor when it comes to tackling undermining crime, would also like to participate in the weed experiments to see if such a regulated back door can also work in a large city. Is the cabinet prepared to discuss this with Mayor Dijksma of Utrecht?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u286	I'm not gonna be riding freestyling all of a sudden through the weed experiments. I think it's all set up very precisely. I don't have that exactly ready here. Otherwise, let us take this back to the budget of Justice and Security, to the main contractor in this area: Professor Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u287	I am not asking you to say that Utrecht is allowed to participate in the weed experiments, because that is not what we are doing during these political discussions. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he or Minister Grapperhaus will at least enter into the conversation with the city of Utrecht. Then we can take the results of that conversation with JenV's budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u288	I don't want to commit to that, because I really don't know exactly... Grapperhaus is a very precise man. He's very motivated to carry out those weed experiments, just in accordance with the coalition agreement. But he can get pretty annoyed when he gets orders from me, so I shouldn't. Let's take a look at what's going on here. I think Mr Jetten and I both have great confidence in Mrs Dijksma, the mayor of Utrecht. What she touches usually goes well. But if this is possible, I just don't know. So I don't want to say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u289	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u290	Very briefly: I have such a suspicion that the mayor of Utrecht might be listening. Maybe she can get the phone herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u291	Yeah, that's fine. I think she's been at Grapperhaus' office every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u292	In any case, I am very pleased that the Prime Minister also sees that regulating the pot chain can help fight crime in the Netherlands. I am now very curious to hear his answer to my main question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u293	Yeah, that's exactly what we're gonna do. There was indeed a piece written by D66 and the VVD this summer. Mr Jetten had a question about that yesterday. Hamer's report also states that the writing of the document is primarily aimed at agreement between D66 and VVD. At a later stage, adjustments could of course be made on the basis of the conversation with other parties. We also had discussions with ChristianUnion, CDA, GroenLinks and Labour Party in the Johan de Witthuis on Tuesday. It was also clear that it was not so that they could draw at the cross. I wanted to say this week that this is not some sort of core rule agreement, a VVD and D66 engine block, to which other parties will have to join. Because if you and Wopke Hoekstra had written such a piece together, I would also think, even if I would agree 100%: yes friends, but we start again for a while; then it can be done very quickly. That's what I wanted to say when I didn't join. There were elements in that piece that were covered by the CDA, for example with regard to Article 23, the Pink Voicebus agreement and completed life. The Christian Union in particular, of course, had its views on this. That's what we've seen in the media. If we had really made a document as a basis for a coalition agreement that could have been joined by confessional parties and other parties, we would have reworded it. This was really a piece of the two of us. But the approach was entirely in line with the Hammer report: there is agreement between us, and we are looking at what other parties think of it and whether they can complement things; they do not have to agree with everything either, because it really is a piece of two liberal parties. If it is up to me, it is also at the heart of the new coalition agreement. But I cannot force CDA, Christian Union, GroenLinks, Labour Party or anyone else to say: here I start. They will probably all say: Shall we start again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u294	Of course it has become a beautiful piece; let's face it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u295	It's become a very nice piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u296	That was our promise to the Netherlands, and everyone who wants to sign in: let's do it; then we can start the coalition negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u297	Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u298	But this does clarify, because in the interviews that the outgoing prime minister as party leader... No, he did that as Prime Minister. In the interviews he gave after the sermon on the throne, a bit of the impression was given that the whole document would have been a fun occupational therapy that could be put in the trash. Then I got the feeling: what did we do to Holland for two months while we were busy in the Stadhouderskamer and the Johan de Witthuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u299	I have just put that too short. That was in an interview with newspaper journalists after Princess Day. I saw it later, too. I had an appointment that night with Mrs Kaag, who also drew one eyebrow. I explained it to her at the time. I certainly didn't mean to. Only, you don't want to fight Clover or Ploumen or Segers or Hoekstra or anyone else...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u300	And!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u301	Clover and Ploumen, sorry. You do not want to say to whoever else would be willing to take part in a cabinet: yes, but you must first endorse this piece. We didn't write it that way, because then we would of course have thought together: how do you write elements like the Pink Voicebus chord, Article 23 and completed life so that it is not an affront for others? Now, of course, it's really our evocation of how we look at the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u302	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u303	Finally, it is nice that the Prime Minister corrects his own statements on Tuesday, because I think that the document is basic, but also these two days APB show that if you work through the lines of content, it is always possible to bridge those differences again. Hopefully next week, when the formation continues, we can show this to the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u304	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u305	Let's move on to the issue of governance culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u306	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the various points in the fine document that Omtzigt had yesterday; perhaps I can start with that. I'm gonna start by walking by and see what's going on with these promises. Promise 1 was about information management and the government official. Here's what's going on. A generic action plan on information management has been set up, and this has also been sent to the Chamber. The basis for the Action Plan is an analysis of the current situation and of bottlenecks in the information system. The Action Plan contains concrete measures to improve the information system. The ministries each have their own tasks. This often also makes their information systems different from each other. That's why each department makes its own action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u307	Before you proceed, there is a point of order from Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u308	I note that Mr Omtzigt himself is not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u309	No, that's what I was thinking. Has he gone home yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u310	I don't know. Our contact is intimate, but not so intimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u311	Do you want me to do another block first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u312	I think it would be useful if he had a chance to get to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u313	Yeah, once. I also noticed he's absent. Then I'll do international and then I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u314	Let's see where Mr. Omtzigt is, so he can get there in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u315	Fair point. Then I'll do block 7 first: the international developments. First question: what is the transatlantic axis and cooperation worth? A question from Mr Klaver, and there is no such question. Then it's gonna be tough. Without here all the way in the role of G.B.J. I would like to say a few things about Hiltermann, which is so late in the debate. This transatlantic relationship is of great importance to the Netherlands. In my talks with President Macron, three weeks ago in Paris, we agreed that it is and-and-and-and-and-and-and-so. We will have to look at the issue of European cooperation and cooperation within NATO, but also at that transatlantic relationship. It is also important in terms of trade and investment relations and, of course, crucial to the climate agenda. Of course, we can all question what exactly happened to America's departure from Afghanistan and the situation it caused. At the same time, my position remains that there is no major geopolitical problem to be solved without the involvement of the United States. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question about Afghanistan itself. We have, of course, had this whole debate very extensive here. Let me put this to you in summary. I've been there a number of times since 2007. Many of you have been there, either from ministerial or parliamentary groups. We have seen the results with our own eyes. And at the same time you must note that it is heartbreaking, and also disappointing, that a large part of those results will probably be nullified by the Taliban regime. I am not naive; I do not have very great expectations about what we can enforce with the men of the Taliban, because ladies are not there, in terms of some basic rules of humanity and also women's rights. The fact is that we also went there to ensure that Afghanistan would not become a hotbed of terrorism. The least we have to do now is to have talks with the Taliban, not in the acknowledged sense, but it is inevitable that there will be contacts with them, also to get rid of the people who are still there; Dutch and Afghans that we want to protect. We must do everything we can to ensure that Afghanistan is not once again a place where terrorism can find a safe place to go; we are also very concerned about that. At the moment, the first signs are not very encouraging. There will soon be a letter of inquiry with the state of affairs in Afghanistan, so if you will allow me, Mr President, I am not going to answer the question raised by Mrs Marijnissen about the e-mails. There will be a letter very soon and we will explain it very precisely. That's all in preparation now. The issue of international developments, Mr. President. If it's all right with you, I'm going back to the board culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u316	I see that Mr Omtzigt has taken his place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u317	Mr Omtzigt, I had just started with the seven points you raised yesterday in the debate. I'll start with point one. That was the question of whether the archives are in order. I'm just gonna start over a little bit. A generic action plan on information management was set up and this went to the Chamber on 6 April. On this basis, an analysis of the current situation and bottlenecks in the information system has been carried out. The action plan contains concrete measures to improve the information system. Of course, this is also a task for all the different ministries. This also means that their information systems often differ from one another, and that is why they are also different action plans. They describe what the information management of their own organization now looks like. They also have a roadmap. These plans were delivered to BZK on 1 July 2021. The level of ambition in those action plans presented appears to be well above the available budget. In order to be able to continue to improve at a rapid pace, it has been decided to allocate funds to ministries until April 2022. The Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Knops, recently sent the progress report on Open on Order to the Chamber. Then specifically about the government commissioner. On 29 June and 21 September, the Chamber was informed that the attempt to appoint the Government Commissioner on 1 July is too optimistic and that that date cannot be met, because it really needs to be further analysed exactly what the task and mission will be, so that he can carry out his work properly. We're in the middle of exploring that. It also requires a division of tasks among the various parties involved, such as the Public Information and Heritage Inspectorate, the Advisory Committee on Public Information and Information Administration of the Woo, the General State Archivist, the Programme Director Open on Order, the CIO, the Chief Information Officer of the Empire, and the DGOO. The challenge here is to avoid overlap. This has got to work. The Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations will send the results exploration to the Chamber as soon as possible. I called him last week. In any case, there will be an update on this point at the time of the BZK budget. Mr. Chairman. Then Ommzigt, 2: repairing the rule of law. We're in the process of preparing for the State Commission on the Rule of Law. On 5 July, a round table was held with participants from all states. That conversation served as an inspiration for formulating a draft assignment for a state committee. In the drafting of a draft mandate, the opinion of the Venice Committee requested by the Chamber, which is scheduled for mid-October, will be taken into account. In this way it will be possible to prevent the state committee from being given a supplementary mandate. The aim is to submit that draft assignment to the Lower House and the Upper House of the States General soon thereafter. Then Omtzigt, 3: making fundamental rights enforceable. During the debate on 29 April 2021, in which the motion in question was tabled, I myself pointed out that it is not up to the present cabinet to appreciate that motion. For a more detailed analysis of the question of constitutional review is called for in this motion, which requires an integrated consideration of a number of fundamental and practical aspects. That is what I think is at issue, and that is what the cabinet believes that the next cabinet will take this forward in a single legislative process, together with the deletion of Article 120 of the Constitution, which now lays down the prohibition of review. In short, we do not think that you can abolish the ban on testing when you leave it over the market or replace it and, if so, what that is. That really requires careful consideration. We believe that this effect goes too far for a outgoing cabinet. It's a long journey. If the cabinet were to come up with a proposal now, we would really be reacting over our graves on this point. I'll join Omtzigt, 4. Diverse, 5: GRECO. There is a letter from the Minister of the Interior dated 6 July 2021 on the GRECO compliance report. Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister, wrote that the Cabinet is still considering further measures relating to post-employment restrictions for former directors seeking a new post and/or about to accept such a post. Soon the Minister of BZK will also present a letter on this point. On the recommendations of the GRECO for executives in the cabinet and their dealings with lobbyists, this cabinet comes with a very short-term appreciation. Then I come to Omtzigt, 7: the standard for independent research government trading. The Omtzitt/Bruins motion invites the government to develop, together with the WRR and the KNAW, a standard for government research. The consultation with the WRR and the Academy took place on 16 September. The Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Knops, will inform the Chamber by separate letter at the beginning of October of how this motion is implemented. Then we have a number of other questions concerning administrative culture, as they have been asked. I've still got four here. The law on independent supervision. We are aware of the Court's desire to arrive soon at legislation specific to inspections. The opinions of the State Committee on Parliamentary System of the Council of State stress the importance of a more integrated framework system. The broad evaluation of the organisational frameworks for remote national organisations should be considered as a preparatory act. The final report will be sent to the Chamber by the Secretary of State for the Interior this year. This evaluation provides the basis for a new vision. In our view, this vision of the future should then be drawn up by a new cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then there are some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u318	Perhaps it would be good if some of Mr Omtzigt's questions were answered and then I gave the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u319	There was also a question of his whether the government is prepared to implement the adopted motion and commitments within 30 days. That was a question from him in his term. The cabinet response to the report Unfamiliar injustice and the ensuing debate have led to nearly 90 actions to address these problems and thus regain the citizens' damaged confidence in the government. In the letter of 29 July this year and the annexes thereto, the cabinet gave a state of play shortly before the summer. In his contribution, Mr Omtzigt mentioned a number of actions which have not yet been fully or fully implemented. Some of these actions will soon be completed, others will take a little more time. I have given the reasons for this in the answers to the parliamentary questions. At the same time, it is also good to note that many of these actions cannot be carried out overnight. Once again, I have also touched on a number of aspects of the document he has put forward. Then there's Routzigt, 6. This is about the independent reporting point for abuses in youth care and the UWV. He refers to the Omtzigt motion requesting an external party to investigate harsh effects, at least in the Participation Act, other UWV laws and pgb, while allowing citizens to provide examples through a hotline. This has been responded to. Your Chamber was informed of the investigation by letter dated 12 February and in reply to written questions on 4 June. The research proposal has also been sent to your Chamber. It's been tendered at Panteia research firm. Panteia asks for examples of harsh effects in these laws through interest groups and on social media and will carry out case studies on this basis by talking to people who have experienced harsh effects. In addition, client councils, client organisations and execution professionals are closely involved in the investigation and complaints, signals, objections and appeals are analysed from UWV and the Social Insurance Bank. Let me turn to Mr Omtzig's comments on the list of decisions taken by the Councils. No decisions are taken in sub- Councils. The conclusion of the sub-committees shall be forwarded to the Council of Ministers, which shall then adopt the conclusions of these consultations. These are then included in the decision list of the Council of Ministers, which has been made public since July of this year, unless it is really a matter of very secret matters, but this has been very rare so far. With this I think I have answered most of Pieter Omtzigt's questions and also responded to the document he handed out yesterday. I have another question from Mr Heerma, but we may be able to do it separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u320	Yes. First of all, I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u321	Thank you for waiting and the comprehensive answer. The problem is that a government commissioner was promised before 1 July. Then the letter of 29 July and the letter of 21 September said that the date was not met. It could happen, but there's no new date. Hundreds of millions have already been allocated per ministry. Why is such a government commissioner so important? Because archives weren't kept and there were illegal blacklists. A number of ministries need an external pair of eyes. We can be very difficult about that, but that's what's happening. I wanted to see a new date when someone would be able to say something about that. That state committee has not been reported. I've just been making sure of it with three contestants. I can see one of the participants in that conference nodding, because that is the President of the Chamber. I've made sure of what happened. Yeah, there's been a conversation, but there's no record of it. How can that be input? Numbers three and four are fundamental rights, the committee and the independent supervisors. There's just a motion from the Chamber before that. If the Chamber says it wants to do so, then it doesn't matter if a cabinet is either a missionary or a missionary. I therefore hope that this cabinet will continue to prepare for that law. The motion states that it must be filed within a year. If there isn't a new government for nine months, then you can't start preparing until then. At GRECO it was an answer to one point, but unfortunately there are twelve points in it. So there are twelve points that the Netherlands has not followed. The Netherlands is the only country that does not succeed all points; England, North Macedonia, Iceland and all other countries do follow some of the points, but the Netherlands do not. I really want to know from all the 12 points what we're going to do next. I must say that they are mostly partially followed by the police, but in politics there are 16 of them who have not been followed at all. So I'm not just talking about the two we're talking about here, but about the other six. In a month's time, I would like to hear what the proposals are to follow them up. They're not simple, I'll say. It's not like that's easy. Standard government business. Let me just say it quite frankly: if I move with my colleague Bruins in January to come up with an independent standard, on 15 September I put questions to the House and then it says in the letter of the Chamber that there was consultation on 16 September, then of course I will call the WRR and the Academy. What kind of meeting was that? Yeah, that was a phone call from the Ministry. That's not crazy, 'cause they haven't done anything in seven months. I'm just expecting a slightly more serious handling of these kinds of motions. And then the independent hotline. I saw Panteia do that, but all the victims can't find that Panteia hotline. There are very large articles in the Volkskrant with at least twenty other categories of people trapped in the Tax Office, but there hasn't been an ad anywhere and there's no place where those people can report. Those people don't feel heard. The same applies to youth care, where large things go wrong in removals. That's not easy to solve. So I'm not saying that I have a silver bullet for this, but it starts at a place where the complaints can be collected. Finally, the sub-committee's decision lists. They'll be published. I looked in the published decision lists of August to see if there was anything in it about Afghanistan's sub- councils. None of those records said anything about Afghanistan. Now I can imagine that the next day you don't publish what you're doing with the evacuations, because of course there's a sensitivity to it when you're still working on it, but there has to be a way that the Chamber can check afterwards now that the evacuations and the air bridge are complete what the decisions were there. That is why I maintain that request: check those points. In a month, look at all those points we can do. How can we publish such a list of decisions? I understand in this particular situation that you do not say exactly what you have decided the next day, but I would like to clarify about those 63 people, just to mention one. This can be done through the sub-committee's decision list. I do not need to explain this now. The Prime Minister had to talk about potato cultivation a block ago. But there's quite a point here: it all seems to be going rather nice on the surface, but if you look deeper, then we're just not where we need to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u322	These are good points. I'm still gonna try to get closer. Starting with the government commissioner. Ollongren, Knops and I are going to look into it, so that during the discussion of the BZK budget we will know when that will be done. It really needs to be looked at with all these other organisations, so that there is no overlap. That takes time and more time than we thought. But I also understand that Mr Omtzigt wants to know when. My notes now state that the results of that exploration will be sent to the Chamber before the end of the year. I have already discussed with the Secretary of State that we are presenting a state of affairs on the budget. I'm also going to ask if we can tell you what that government commissioner's appointment is. That's the point. Point two, the state power. That was an informal exploratory conversation with the state powers. It has been discussed how the participants see the role of each state power and its relations within the rule of law, which may be improved and whether they see issues that the State Commission could address. That was really a confidential conversation and not meant to make a report that goes outside. Then the point of that motion. That is promise number seven which Mr Omtzigt mentioned, the Omtzigt/Bruins motion. I get that. I would also like to agree that we ask the Secretary of State and/or the Minister of the Interior to state in a letter when that is done. Dan GRECO. I would like to say to Mrs Ollongren that it might be a good idea for the BZK budget to state its position on these actions there too. There are indeed many more than those two. I highlighted these two because they were about the relations of ministers in the cabinet and ministers moving to another job. Those were two main recommendations, but there were indeed many more. Then we come up with an overview of the situation. Dan Panteia. I fully understand your point: those involved must also be able to respond to it. You say you're getting signals that that's not going well. I am now asking the administration to find out and to give it to me, so that in the second term I can come back to how we can ensure that this research is open, especially to those who are victims, who want to lay down their examples of harshness, the casuistics, there. So that's about point number six. Finally, on the question of government consultation. This week, I have also said that these govern mentors are not of formal status. They are easily accessible and genuine for coordination and not necessarily for decision-making. Then, of course, letters go to the Chamber or otherwise about how we deal with things. That also means that there are simply no lists of decisions. I can't construct it afterwards either. You mention three points: the issue we discussed in the debate, France and the 3 and 60. We'll be coming up with that overview letter, Afghanistan, soon. Then there will undoubtedly be another discussion. Then there is no doubt that we will talk about it after that. I can't make that bwo a decision list right now. It's just not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u323	Thank you for some of those commitments. I hope that I will also be given the commitment to continue working on Article 120.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u324	Technically, we can work on it. In the end, of course, it is really up to a next cabinet to submit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u325	That motion was tabled in May, June. It calls for the legislative proposal to be submitted within a year. Even in my most pessimistic scenario, next May there will be a new cabinet here. I had this problem with that last motion. I'm assuming you're just gonna move on and possibly do something for consultation or organise meetings, so that that trajectory doesn't get stuck because the cabinet is a missionary. Then the new cabinet can do that. With regard to Afghanistan, I have tried to say the following here. Decisions have been taken at some point, whether they have been taken or mandated within the board of directors, within the sub-committee or within the Council of Ministers. That is quite logical, because the Council of Ministers meets once every seven days, and in such a fluid situation decisions are taken in the meantime. That's all very normal, but it's nice to know when they're taken. I also say that decisions do not have to be perfect with the knowledge of today, but it is good to be able to control them. With regard to the other points, I await. I hope to see it at least a few days before the BZK budget, so that we can also study it quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u326	I have two more points. The first is about that number 3 versus the 60. I also outlined it in the debate. On August 11th there is a bwo. This bwo discusses that as much as possible is drawn the same line as the interpreters. This means that at most a single exception is made. In doing so, it was important to re-assess all proposals on their substance and on their own merits. At that time, no maximum numbers were mentioned. After that, the number 3 came. I can't exactly reconstruct where that came from right now. That's not in the bwo's report either. At least, I've asked you to check that out. This was August 11th. On 14 August, on the suggestion of Sigrid Kaag, it was decided to let go of this. It was already exceptional that for the first time in history it was decided to evacuate the entire staff from the embassy to the Netherlands, including the local staff, including the core families. That was decided before, on July 9th. On Saturday August 14th, a few days after that bwo, even before the fall of Kabul on Sunday August 15th, it was decided to bring the 60 non-core members but residents to the Netherlands as well. And by now, everyone here is happy, too. So that's everyone: both the embassy staff and the nuclear family members and the residents are here. That is actually all a repeat of last week's debate. The question remains where that number three comes from. Is that official suggestion, in the vein of: it is a very small number, think of three? That's still under investigation, but we can't find it in that bwo report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u327	Thank you. Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u328	That at that point. I find the point of Article 120 of the Constitution somewhat difficult, because I also said in the appreciation of that motion: that is really up to a new cabinet. So, at best, you could be looking at it technically. Of course, that could be what you have to submit to constitutional changes, suppose that a cabinet, a next coalition, would decide to do so. There is, of course, no objection to this, but that is no more than the technical work. Because in a formal sense... My party doesn't feel the same way about it as other parties. There are, of course, very different views on this, and that is why I said at the time of the appreciation that this is really up to a new cabinet. I have no objection to at least preparing it technically. I don't know if that's possible. I'll take a look at Kajsa Ollongren. But you can't consult yet. I think that political decision-making must have taken place first. But you could avoid wasting your time by actually preparing it technically. Maybe we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u329	Thank you. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u330	Thanks for technical preparation. I assume the same applies to the supervisory act. I feel like it's taking a little longer there because that law is a little harder. There are one or two options: whether or not there is a constitutional court. You can have concentrated review or review with any judge in the Netherlands. Mr Remkes, who has made this proposal, is the one who knows the most about it. So, maybe you'll see him again at an opportunity and ask him how this is possible. But it's nice that it's being technically prepared so that the new cabinet can do this. Since there was a majority for this, I just assume that it will be carried out. Then I'll wait for all those points in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u331	Once again, under Rule 120, I cannot promise that it will be implemented. I can promise to prepare it technically, because I also said at the time of the appreciation that this really requires political decision-making, including in a new cabinet and in a formation. So I do not want to go that far, but I think we can do it on all other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u332	Let me take a look at Mr Segers. I think there were a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u333	Shall I answer the other questions? There was also a question from Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u334	Yeah, I'd love that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u335	There was Mr Segers' question that the government should have a face and that there should be a contact person and a telephone number on each letter. We also discussed this during the debate on the state of play on 7 July. At that time, the Chamber adopted the Grinwis/Leijten motion, which calls on the government to ensure that all relevant letters from public authorities contain a telephone number of a competent employee so that personal contact becomes more accessible. Each execution organisation has a telephone number. Citizens can go there with questions. I understand the wish of the motion, of course, very well. Ideally, you'll speak directly to the person who handled the letter. I think that the most important thing is to ensure that the person who speaks to the citizen has all the knowledge and information to help. We're working hard on this. The Minister for Social Affairs will discuss progress on this motion in the course of its implementation in December. That's really complicated for a while. For the other government organisations, such as the Tax Administration, progress will be made in the framework of the Work on Implementation programme and the corresponding Public Service Work Agenda. That's what I'm saying at that point. Then there is Mr Heerma's question: what happened to the motions surrounding the administrative culture? That was, among other things, the Klever/Ploumen motion, which was adopted on 29 April. There is, of course, the idea of strengthening the democratic rule of law and people's confidence. The cabinet has also taken that motion completely into effect. It calls for change in eight areas, both in concrete policy and in administrative practice and in administrative culture, including social law. I've already discussed that part. Much has been started, partly overlapping with the response to the Parliamentary Committee on Childcare Allowance. This applies, for example, to investigations on the use of discriminatory algorithms and to avoid distressing individual effects of legislation and regulation by including safeguards in legislation and regulation. This also partly affects the discussion that I had just had with Mr Omtzigt and with the aforementioned Panteia research, as well as instruments such as a hardness clause or discretionary power. So that's all in progress now. It also comes back in reports from the cabinet in all sorts of places. Mr Heerma asked about the examination of the General Administrative Service in view of the importance of professional knowledge among officials. That investigation went to the Chamber on 15 January, including the cabinet response. The researchers conclude that the mobility policy of the ABD through the application of the so-called 3-5-7 model has led to the desired mobility, but that it is being applied too strictly. What they're actually saying is: deal with it more flexibly. I very much agree with that, by the way. Mobility is not an end in itself, although it is no longer necessary for some Directors-General to be in the same place for 24 years. I think a good balance between mobility and continuity is beneficial to the government in order to achieve peace, deepening, knowledge, action and networking. It is therefore also working on measures to bring the duration of the job back above five years. The average working time of ABDs in 2019 was 4.3 years and this has increased to 4.6 years in 2020. Of course, we cannot force people to remain on their jobs, because everyone is free to make their own career choices. But you don't want people to think after three years: Oh, I have to go again. It is really important that deep knowledge is also developed. Mr. Chairman. Other debates are, of course, taking place on the allowances. I think that there has been a great deal of discussion with the Chamber about the need to review the implementation. It was also explicitly discussed in order to ensure a careful process and not to disappoint the injured with commitments that cannot be fulfilled. At the moment you see that a personal business manager is on average 35 hours busy helping parents well and qualitatively instead of the 20 hours that had previously been hired. In addition, there have been 35,000 additional applications since the beginning of this year. That is why we also need a review of the integrated assessments and a review of the planning. In total, almost 50,000, to be precise 46,500 parents, have signed up. More than 35,000 light keys have now been completed. These consist of a combination of data analysis and manual checks to make speed and to provide a reliable assessment of whether parents belong to the duped group. On the basis of this first light test, a small 20,000 parents received the so-called Cathouse Scheme of €30,000. The Secretary of State for Finance, Alexandra van Huffelen, also spoke to the Chamber about the re-evaluation. It gave its opinion on this subject on various motions for resolutions. The aim is to see if there are still opportunities to speed up the process, because that is very important. She will inform you about the progress next week. I do not want to anticipate this now, but of course this is very, very, very important. Then there was a question about the blacklists. This question came from both the SP and DENK corners. I assume that they refer with blacklists to lists such as the so-called Fraud Signaling Provision, the FSV list. The people on the FSV list are getting posted, so I'm getting a message. The first letters were delivered in March 2021 and 200,000 people have been informed that they are on a list. We are also giving effect to the Marijnissen motion. Firstly, all departments are now making an inventory of whether there are unjust blacklists. Two. People will be informed by letter if they have been put on such a list by an illegal procedure of the government. The State Secretary of BZK has also promised a progress report on this issue, which will be published no later than 14 October, i.e. before the autumn recess and for the budget handling of the Ministry of the Interior. I think that the screening of legislation on hardness clauses has already been adequately dealt with in relation to Mr Omtzigt's point. It was also a question from Mr Segers and it has to do with the implementation of the Ploumen/Jetten motion. I told you, every department is making an inventory of laws and regulations that may be harsh. In any case, input is collected within its own department. Mr Azarkan asked for a review of institutional racism in the government. It is involved in the task of the State Commission to be set up. The Minister of the Interior has promised to inform your Chamber about the state committee this year. That commitment stands. Several issues have been launched in order to strengthen the approach to discrimination. One. Measures have been launched to combat discrimination within the government, including the training and training of government staff by the Human Rights College and the strengthening of the discrimination test. The data protection impact assessment has also been made more accessible and clearer and more attention has been paid to anti-discrimination. The Human Rights College will soon come up with a legal review framework for ethnic profiling in so-called risk profiles. Then there was also the question when it became clear what the National Coordinator will do against Discrimination and Racism. On 11 June, the Minister of the Interior sent a letter on the profile of this National Coordinator. It also includes what he's going to do. That profile and the associated task package are based on an exploration involving several civil society organisations and bodies. The profile includes the tasks package such as the preparation of a national programme consisting of multiannual objectives and an annual action plan. An open recruitment has taken place in recent months and I understand that the Minister expects to be able to make the appointment of the first National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism very soon. Another question from Mr Azarkan was when there will be more severe penalties for discrimination, including the expulsion of officials who are guilty of it. There is an initiative bill proposed by Buitenweg van GroenLinks and Segers of the Christian Union, which proposes to introduce a discriminatory motive as a legal grounds for punishment. Furthermore, on 1 January, the maximum sentence for hate-sowing was doubled from one year to two years in prison. Legal action may be taken against officials guilty of a criminal offence. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions. May I close with a personal note? I had a conversation with people from the performance of the UWV the other day. Extra money went to the execution. I think that apart from all these committees and initiatives, we are going to monitor them very well and keep each other on top of them. The most important thing is the people who work in the implementation, because, on the basis of laws and regulations, we are going to make certain decisions and have a bad feeling about what that means for someone in society who has turned to the UWF or is dependent on them. I think the essence of what we must have learned is that we must listen to it. I was very happy to hear how this is being dealt with at the UWV and the extra resources are being used for that. There is time available for what is called "the lower abdomen conversation" in sociological jargon, with a performer who says: "I followed the rules exactly but eventually I produced a concrete swimming band that cannot work. It's all true, but in the end it's crazy what we're doing here, and for the person it's about, it's very radical." There's got to be room to discuss that on our own team. That is happening there now, at least in the department where I had that contact and I think also wider within the UWV. Then we must first look at what is possible under existing laws and regulations to address this wrong outcome to an individual problem, so that that person does not clearly suffer that bad effect of policy. If that fails at the level of such a team, the follow-up question is what is needed, possibly at the level of legislation and regulation. First what can be done within the laws and regulations and then what should be done at a higher level at the UWV, perhaps with regard to the interpretation of those laws and regulations and if there is no other way to do so, adaptation of laws and regulations. This also runs like a thread through the report following the child care allowance affair, the report Unfamiliar injustice: how do you ensure that this feedback works in organisations and that things do not happen that are found normal after a while and are taking place on an ever larger scale, which can eventually lead to such a terrible affair? To do something with the feedback of performers, time and space is needed. That also requires safety. We're not here with this. This requires a quest that really lasts longer than just this year. But I was very happy to be part of the UWV, because we all want the same thing eventually. If we turn to the government, you don't just want to meet a person, have a phone number that you can call and know who sent you that letter. You should be able to talk about it, even as an executive at the UWV or at the Tax Office or anywhere else, if the application of laws and regulations has a clearly unjust outcome and you yourself have a bad feeling about it. You should be able to discuss this in peer review, and you should be able to ask: what can we do about it? Within the laws and regulations, if necessary by interpretation of those laws and regulations and in the extreme case by adaptation of the laws and regulations, to ensure that there is a result that is intended. This includes all the instruments of hardness clauses and so on. But it does start here, with that feedback. There are all flesh and blood workers there. More than 10,000 people or more. 15,000 people at the UWV. Almost 25,000 people or more at the IRS. The overwhelming majority of those people are good, they do a very good job and they don't want to go home at night with the feeling: I made a decision that's right, but it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u336	There's a lot of interruptions. Firstly, Mr Segers of the Christian Union, then Mr Eerdmans, Mr Heerma, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Azarkan and Mr Jetten. First of all, Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u337	When the Prime Minister looked up his papers and told me the latter, my heart started to beat a little faster. In my opinion, that is indeed the core: the human measure, the one man who looks the other man in the eye. I heard what he said when he read his answers. I've looked through the 90 action points. I need to look through it to see that there are indeed people of flesh and blood behind it, who are genuinely trying to do the right thing. But I also hear the echo of the woman who told her story in that documentary this week and said: I want and wanted to forgive, but I can't, because I'm angry and don't forgive them. That can only be solved by someone of flesh and blood who stands opposite and listens very carefully and looks them in the eyes. One of the proposals made by the Prime Minister when he did his interview at Nieuwsuur was a team in the government that is very mobile but approachable and can be set in motion. That's what I'm looking for. My question was about a name, e-mail address or telephone number of an official who sent a letter. I mean a government with a face. That was the Ombudsman's heart cry, who said: we already have that team, I am, but listen to me for once. How can we take that step? How can we get there? I believe all these points of action and do not cynically say that, because a lot has now been set in motion. But it's still gonna come down to that human size. How can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u338	Listen to my answer and all these action points; the risk is that the whole follow-up to the childcare allowance affair will become bureaucratic before you know it. Then it is stripped of any emotion and we are just ticking off whether all deadlines for all the different proposals are reached in time. But there's a world behind it. I haven't seen the documentary yet. Of course, I'm gonna take a look at that, too. In that documentary, which was broadcast on TV last Monday or Tuesday, I think there are five or six victims of the child care allowance affair. I've heard a lot about that. From what I hear, that is a very moving documentary. Eventually, the answer has to be to them. I have said before, also in the RTL debate, that I am not asking for forgiveness. I'm not asking you to trust the government again. But at least I want to say that the government, which I, of course, represent first as Prime Minister and which we all represent here as Cabinet and Chamber, feels obliged to give that succession. Then it's about the human dimension, but ultimately it's also looking for the small interventions with the big results. You have a team at the UWV, and I'm assuming I'm also with the IRS and the SVB. That's where decisions are made. There are Mr Segers and Mr Rutte, and they deal with certain issues. People report to the UWV. We work there. At some point at the end of the day, we have an incredibly bad feeling about how a few decisions we have made are working out for people. However, we have applied the rules quite well. Now we're gonna make room in the execution to have that conversation. I think that is essential. That's not the answer. The solution is probably not there either. It is also important that it is necessary in its follow-up to look also at issues of hardness and clauses. Then you're back in technology. But it does start with that. For the Dutchman, that means calling and getting someone on the phone. For the execution this means that you know "if it is evidently wrong, then it probably doesn't add up" and that you know where to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u339	That is indeed the government's side, and that is crucial. I mean that we are testing legislation on whether there is a hardness clause and whether there is somewhere the possibility, space and freedom for that treating official to say: "This is not right. We may have applied it correctly according to the letter of the law, but in the application it is obvious injustice." That's the side of the government. That is indeed crucial. Whatever struck me was the sighing, after all the facts were known, that these people didn't stand a chance. They went to the IRS with their pockets full of evidence and they didn't stand a chance. They went to court and didn't stand a chance. They wrote a letter to the King's Cabinet. They got a nice thank-you note back and that's it. They had nowhere to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u340	And they were classified as fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u341	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u342	And we're talking about compensation, when we need to talk about how they get their own money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u343	Exactly. So it is indeed unprecedented injustice. We can't say that enough. The fact is, they didn't stand a chance. How can we make sure they have a chance? This has to do with the Ombudsman, including his position, and it may have to do with such a team as the Prime Minister himself suggested. Would it not be appropriate to ask the Ombudsman again to consider this ombud function? 'Cause he rang the bell and said, "We're already here, but listen. The Ombudsman has already submitted a report in 2017. We were then in a formation that had started. We were very busy, but we didn't see that report back then. I didn't see it then either. How can we ensure that that is not overlooked and that he is heard? Shouldn't we ask him about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u344	Imagine now, as we speak, without knowing such a report has been lying somewhere since a few weeks that we haven't seen and in three years we say: remember, we met at the General Reviews, then with that missionary cabinet in September 2021, and we didn't know it. There's still no guarantee that that's possible. There's no guarantee. My proposal in that Tweebeeke interview was not immediately supported by the Ombudsman. He did say: that is actually our role. I understand that reaction to some extent. I actually think it is a good suggestion to ask him again how we can use his services and ask him about my idea of that programme. If it doesn't work, it won't work. I'll tear it up right away. That's not my point at all. It's about how you deal with the knowledge that's there and how you keep us alert when that happens. Of course, he said it himself: shouldn't I have said "boys, this report is there and you are neglecting it" before? My biggest fear is that another report like this is floating somewhere now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u345	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u346	That's my fear, too. For example, Mr Omtzigt referred to youth care. You sometimes hear stories about that that you think: oh, what's going on in there? So indeed, I think things can go wrong in the execution now that we can't see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u347	The Minister for Social Affairs comes with an update on the implementation organisations. I would ask him to take this aspect up with the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u348	It almost calls for that is my last question, Mr President, about some kind of perseverance power or at least a power of the Ombudsman to bring his reports and his findings to our attention in such a way that we must respond and at any rate, even though we are still so busy, we are always looking at them. For he is the eyes and ears of all those citizens who are sometimes crushed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u349	And it prevents the building of new structures. Let's see if we can make much better use of the existing structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u350	Thank you. Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u351	My question is about the ABD's investigation into the ABD. The Prime Minister states that, following that investigation, proposals are being made to reduce the speed of circulation, because it is not intended that officials should go to another post after three years of job-hopping. My reason for raising this issue at the time was that this is indeed happening and that it is therefore not about the virtue of individual people that gives them a management culture and lowers the real professional knowledge. As a result, a very large complex problem is less easily solved and b the chances are that mistakes will be made that will make people suffer. My question is what these proposals are and what concrete steps will be taken to bring down that speed of circulation. The Prime Minister states that they are not supposed to be there for 24 years, but between 3 and 24 years is a lot. The second thing I would like to know is what is happening to make professional knowledge more difficult in the allocation of functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u352	I can do this in second term. I don't have that much detail on me right now. We can also ask a separate letter from Kajsa Ollongren about this for the BZK budget. But I am also willing with all my heart to answer this question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u353	I'm prepared to agree with the Prime Minister so that he doesn't have to do that second term if we can get that letter soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u354	Yes. Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u355	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP. Or sorry, excuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u356	Isn't that right? The answer is yes, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u357	On what term is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u358	Spacious for the BZK budget. Now you've got the microphone again...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u359	Yeah, there's a glitch. We're gonna try to fix it in the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u360	Only with Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u361	Sorry, in the recess... in the suspension. And the big things we solve in the recess. It's in my head. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Marijnissen, then to Mr Azarkan and then to Mr Jetten. That was the order. Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u362	The outgoing prime minister says he hasn't seen the movie alone against the state yet. I believe that the presentation we are about to organize here in the Chamber is not an unnecessary luxury. But he knows part of the parents, of the mothers, from the movies, of course. He talked to them himself. He once told me he shed a tear because of the stories he heard there. I think a lot of people who see the documentary should shed a tear for the stories they hear from the mothers. That is why I think the question is justified: what does the outgoing Prime Minister think of a deadline for himself when these parents, in this case these mothers, can count on a real solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u363	That debate has been held very often, also by Van Huffelen, with the Chamber. I really think we should be careful to make commitments here that we cannot deliver. That creates a new disappointment. The case is so complex. I have just described a few aspects of it. I understand the wish 'before the end of the year', but that is impossible to say. That's really impossible to say. There has been a discussion with the Chamber about the re-examination. This has implications for the issue of speeding up the process. That's good news in itself. But I'm not gonna make a promise about it right now. I'm not gonna make a promise I can't keep. I don't think that's right, but especially when it comes to these parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u364	That is very serious, because this cabinet is outgoing, but it has said that we are not missionary when it comes to solving the supplement scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u365	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u366	We are now six months after the elections and eight months after the fall of Rutte III. It's far from solved. On the contrary, there is a bizarre, really retarded amount of money being spent on consultants and all the agencies that have to pay off here again, while the SP proposal was adopted here a very long time ago, namely the solution in one day. Invite all these parents in one day with all their pieces. Make sure they come in the morning, have a real conversation, that they can look someone in the eye, as Mr Segers said, and that they walk out at the end of the day and know where they stand. That's the least of it, isn't it? I would like to ask: Prime Minister, isn't that the least you could do? I also wonder how, at some point, you can justify such a scandal to yourself. Your cabinet fell over it. We've been eight months. How can you still justify that to yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u367	That doesn't work either. We discussed it with the parent panel. I also talked with Alexandra van Huffelen about it with another group of parents. The treatment in one day may provide a solution for a number of parents, but some cases are so complex. The fact that an average personal business manager is now working an average of 35 hours instead of 20 hours, as we assumed earlier, does show how complex it is. It has to do with so many aspects of people's suffering, debt problems and all kinds of other things. Solving it in one day, what was called "the car wash" can help in a number of cases, but part of the whole recalibrate is: what can you do to speed things up? Omzigt was just talking about a golden bullet. That's what he called it, I think. He's not here. He's simply not here. I wish there was one. I'm not gonna make any promises here, really, that I can't keep. It's extremely complex. We've got one of our best people on it, Alexandra van Huffelen, with a huge team. They work day and night. There are very large numbers of people involved. A total of 46,500 parents have registered. They are not all entitled to it, but at least they must be looked at very carefully. I can't make a commitment about this when it's done. I'm not gonna do that. I'm not gonna double-cross people. I fully understand that Mrs Marijnissen feels this way. I feel it exactly the way it is. I'd love to say it, but that's not wise. We can't do that. We really can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u368	Mr Rutte says 'I'm not gonna cheat people', but I can assure you that a lot of people feel that really different. They feel horribly betrayed by the government and by you, Mr. Rutte. I find it really inexplicable and unacceptable, and let me make it quite clear that you say: I am not going to make any promises about it. I think that's the least you can do. Everyone understands that it may not be completely resolved within a day, but what we can do is invite people and have a conversation with all the papers on the table. A motion has been passed here by the Chamber. Officials have offered: we can do that. It hasn't even been seriously tried yet. I want people to know at the end of the day where they are and that they are getting help and not as well as they are now, namely that they have to take care of everything, that they have to get back to work with lawyers themselves, that they have to prove all kinds of things themselves; the real damage as it is called. Who invents a term like that? They have to prove the real damage, which means that they will remain in that misery for much longer. And these people have already suffered so much misery! I would really recommend that you look at this film, because then you will see how much misery these people have been through, and then you might understand better that I find it really inexplicable that you say here today 'we can't promise these people anything'. The least you can do for these people, Mr. Rutte, is give a deadline: when will the problems be solved for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u369	The Chamber has adopted several motions on this issue and has stated, among other things, that there should be a review, including with a view to seeing whether there is any possibility of speeding up the process. This is currently being mapped out by Secretary of State Alexandra van Huffelen. All suggestions that are useful will be taken into account. This will also be the subject of another debate. In the meantime, the operation is continuing. It goes on, the store is open during the recalibrate. There's no other way. I fully agree with Mrs Marijnissen, but I am not going to make any promises here that I do not know if we can keep. I think it's really indecent of these parents if I did that. I understand Mrs Marijnissen's question, I understand that she is asking this question and I respect that, but I am not going to answer it if I am not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u370	Nine months ago, the cabinet was expelled because tens of thousands of parents were wronged. I have just kept track of how long the Prime Minister has talked about the surcharges: it was about 1 minute and 37 seconds. Those parents all look and know that commitment has been given, not only by this Prime Minister, also by the Minister of Finance. I think that as a Chamber, we really owe it to these groups of people. I speak a lot of them. Things are just not going well right now. Whatever is invented, the execution is always tight. And then we can hear very nice words like "remark" and "I don't want to cheat people," but it's just not enough. It is simply not enough because this cabinet has planned that it will be missionary on two points, namely in the handling of the premium crime and in the field of corona. On that first one, we can't get away with saying... I'm actually looking at the Chamber. In 1 minute and 37 seconds, the Prime Minister uses a number of terms such as "impact analysis," "review," "monitor" and "I don't want to promise people too much." That's just not enough. That's just not enough. We can stand and wait, but what is the message of this Prime Minister and of the Chamber? People are watching. What's your message?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u371	The message is, Mr. Azarkan, that a team of hundreds of incredibly motivated people here have also spoken with them myself under the guidance of a Secretary of State, who is motivated to lead this in the right direction, working day and night. It's extremely complex. The Chamber itself asked for a review. It is impossible, it is impossible to make firm commitments now about when this is done. I'm not gonna do it either. That gives us false hope. It's so complex. It is now more than 46,000 people who need to be watched. It takes an average of 35 hours per person for a business manager, as I said. I'm not going to make any promises about that. That's not fair to people. They're working on it day and night. There is no doubt that this is the highest priority. Indeed, we also consider this a missionary subject, but missionary or not, I cannot guarantee when it is ready. I just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u372	Those parents say, "When we were horribly tortured by the government, there was no need to recalibrate and then it wasn't complex. We are asking for something now, and now there are all kinds of rules why things can't. That's when everything was possible. We begged to be included in the debt restructuring. There really wasn't anyone who wanted to give us that. We are humiliated in front of our neighbours." These people deserve it. You don't have to talk to people about that anymore, because you know that, and Mrs van Huffelen knows that. I know it's hard. I know it's complex. But I just don't think it's enough. I just don't think it's enough. I am looking at the Prime Minister and also at the Minister of Finance, Mr Hoekstra, because they are really responsible and also owe to these people to make a commitment today. We can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u373	It's the same question. I totally get that, but I have the same answer: I'm not gonna do it. The situation is so complex that there is currently no date to be set. I'm really not gonna do that. Then we're committing something that can't be. I think that is really wrong and not decent in the direction of these people. Let me repeat once again that it is being worked incredibly hard. There is no doubt that everyone wants to solve this, but Mrs Van Huffelen advises on the basis of all the knowledge she has to give no date at all. So I'm not gonna do that here either, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u374	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u375	This is so incredibly sad, so sad. I want the Prime Minister, but also Minister Hoekstra, to know what that commitment is. They've really said a couple of times that they really care. It's certainly the reason they've become missionary. It's a big deal. We've done people incredibly wrong. Unfamiliar. So what's the message now? Are you gonna wait until we come up with something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u376	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u377	"We're recalibrating. We're monitoring. Your case is complex." It wasn't complicated when they were being beaten hard and then the money was being ripped off. I really don't like what this Prime Minister promises to those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u378	I'm not gonna give you a date we can't live up to. It is not the case that during the recalibrate the work does not go on. It's all just going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u379	Is it all right, Mr. Klaver, that I give Mrs. Marijnissen a chance? Then you will be then and then Mr Jetten will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u380	I only have one question. I sat down, but I noticed that I wasn't quite comfortable yet. Like Mr. Azarkan, I think we can't do it to these people that you say, "I just have no idea. I'm not gonna make a commitment. I can't promise anything. I don't know." That's just unacceptable. So my only question is actually the following. It is now eight months after the fall of Rutte III and six months after the elections. This missionary cabinet with Mark Rutte in the lead doesn't manage to solve it. He doesn't want to say when he thinks it should be solved. Then my question is, how much time does he give himself? How much longer can he answer for himself? How long can he go to bed himself at night and get up in the morning feeling good when this isn't solved? Can he at least report that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u381	Mrs Marijnissen now gives the impression that nothing is happening. I told you, over 35,000 keys have been completed. This means that on the basis of a combination of data analysis and checks, to make speed, we can give an estimate of whether parents indeed belong to that target group. On this basis, almost 20,000 parents have now received the €30,000 from the Catshuis scheme. Those steps have been taken. There's a terrible amount of work being done to do everybody's individual justice. It's being worked on incredibly hard. At the same time, a review will be carried out into what is possible to speed up the process. That's an appointment with the Chamber; I didn't think of that, but that's what Chamber and Cabinet did together. That's what we're doing. So we're working on it on all sides. But it's complicated. And really, now make a commitment about an end date, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u382	Two things in advance. First of all, I do not doubt the intentions of all those who are now trying to work towards a solution. So let's not go there. I'm not gonna ask for a commitment now. I understand that, too. But I do want something extra from this Prime Minister. What I hear and see here is a clash with a system world and a civil service world in which we can talk about recalibrate, procedures and steps we take. In our world here, that's perfectly normal, but if you're a parent or a child and you've been in trouble for years, then this just doesn't go fast enough. In my contribution, I talked about someone, a child of a supplemental mother, for whom it's just... Really, I've rarely seen such a resilient person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u383	Yes, you had a very nice story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u384	The guy's fighting and he's doing the best he can. But those who are stopped simply because the compensation is not for them and because they are still in debt. For an individual, a few thousand euros in debt is a huge amount, but for us as a government it is nothing. What we are all asking for is not even an end date. We have no doubt that there are people out there trying to do their best. But it's not enough. And what I want to hear here is a Prime Minister saying, "It is indeed not enough. Our system world here doesn't match people's real lives. They are still in tribulation, and we have done so."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u385	I agree. I also thought Mr Klaver's speech yesterday was a fine contribution, and that part of his contribution in particular. I complimented him on that, too. There's no doubt about it. I've talked to a lot of parents myself, in all kinds of compositions. I'm gonna go watch that movie. You don't even have to see it to know how terrible it is, but I want to see that movie, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u386	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u387	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u388	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u389	Just finishing this: I feel it exactly the way it is. It's not like nothing's happening to the parents now. There is a terrible amount of work being done to satisfy as many people as possible now. Progress is also being made, but it will take more time than at the end of this year. We also need to see what comes out of the discussion with the Chamber about how we can speed up the process further. Maybe we can put a deadline on it after that, but we can't do that right now. That's all I'm saying. But I also agree with his argument. That's my message to the parents, too. There is a total commitment to settle that, but now there is no way to say: on that date it is finished. I just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u390	I started by saying I'm not asking for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u391	No, no, I know!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u392	But what matters to me is that I want to hear a Prime Minister here who is not going to explain how difficult these processes are. I get all that, but that doesn't send a message to these parents. That there's a lot of hard work, that's what it's gonna be. But we need to work even harder. And if there aren't enough people to do this, more people need to be hired. Please, it has been said many times here: I would prefer a thousand times that someone gets a little too much, as far as you could already talk about it, than that there should be another test or that another check should be made. People's lives are on hold. They want to go on, but they can't. So explaining here how difficult it is is not enough. I want more, much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u393	I can't break iron with my hands right now. I would just like to say to Mr Klaver that I agree with him and that we are looking at how the process can be accelerated further, whether it can be done with additional people and everything else. That's all being done. The parents I speak to also know that we feel very obliged to deal with this successfully. I'll show that in other places, too. But, you know, there's not much to be done about that in words, other than finding out that at this point in time, I think everything is being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u394	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u395	Finally. I started with it: it's the system thinking that we've all been trained in here with the government and in politics, in front of the world of real people. My appeal to the cabinet and to this outgoing prime minister is really next. There's no perfect system to build to help these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u396	We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u397	It will be a completely individual approach, with the pace of... I can't stress enough how important it is to make pace. I want the people at home to see that this Prime Minister says, "It's never enough. It's never enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u398	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u399	...and we will do everything we can to complete it quickly." 'Cause those people have to get on with their lives. We owe it to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u400	I agree with that one hundred percent. That's exactly how I'm in it. Thank you to Mr Klaver, who may be more eloquence than I am capable of at the end of the debate. But those are exactly the words I was looking for. Perhaps I have stayed a little too long in the dialogue on the date, and therefore a little too much in the technique. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u401	Mrs Simons van BER1 on this subject, and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u402	It is, of course, significant that Mr Rutte needs Mr Klaver to come up with the right words that parents can stick to a little bit. I think that is something we should not ignore, because it actually characterizes exactly why he is still standing here at all. In one of the first debates I was allowed to hold as a Member of Parliament, I informed Mr Rutte that I cannot imagine that you still think you can stand here as Prime Minister if you are politically responsible for what these parents have been doing, however you turn or turn. But if you still stand, and there are motions being adopted in the Chamber that not only ask for the matter to be dealt with quickly and adequately, but also, for example, that was a motion from Mr Van Raan and myself, supported by a majority of this Chamber for healing, actually based on the idea of "whatever it takes, whatever it takes, however long it takes"... Although I actually think that the outgoing Prime Minister should not be here at all in that capacity, I would nevertheless like to give him the opportunity to show the parents at home what that means to him, to facilitate the healing that is needed, not only for these parents, but also for their children and also for grandparents involved, because families have been torn apart. I can't wait to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u403	I agree, Mrs Simons. It's more than giving people their own money back, more than recognizing that people are not a fraud. It goes much deeper. That will be necessary for a very large number of people. Giving back one's own money and recognising that they are not frauds will also mean that many people will be able to close the issue. But there is also a large group of whom I have the conviction, on the basis of the discussions I have had, that it goes much further. Precisely the word used by Mrs Simons applies to this: healing. That has to do with grief, anger, incomprehension of what has been done to them. It is not for nothing that we look at how, in addition to all the financial aspects of debt, child schemes, we do things for the children, and give people back their money, we can design these things as well as possible. It's also being looked at with the people together, with the parent panel. But that's very complex. You can also try to learn lessons from very violent events that have taken place abroad: South Africa after anti-apartheid, Guatemala after the revolution. Maybe some farfetched examples, but there's a lot of experience in finding each other. Yeah, that's part of the approach, too. That sounds so businesslike, but I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u404	Of course I am pleased to hear this, because I agree with Mr Rutte and also think that this is such an exceptional situation. I understand these foreign examples very well, because that was indeed about finding truth, about healing, about getting back together. Let me ask, just to be sure, whether I can interpret these words in the same way, as I said earlier: as a government, we are going to do whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u405	Whatever it takes, your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u406	Whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u407	Whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u408	I am very glad that I asked this question and that you took the opportunity to share this message with the parents. I know that Mr Rutte knows that at least BEL1 and certainly other parties, including parties that are sitting here much longer than BEL1 and who have been working on this case for a long time, will stick to those words. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u409	Finally, I will give the floor to Mr Jetten of D66 and then we will suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u410	Three quarters of Dutch people with Surinamese or Antillean descent hope that the Dutch cabinet will apologize for the role that the Netherlands has played directly or indirectly in slavery history. This is important to the Dutch-Antillian and Dutch-Surinam communities because of the recognition of the suffering caused to their ancestors, but also to learn from how that past works in our contemporary society, for example in the form of discrimination and institutional racism, as we have seen in the supplement scandal. I have often asked the Prime Minister about this, and last year he said that he did not take up the apology, because it might also provoke contradictions in society. Much has happened since our last debate. The Dialogue Group Slavernijvermembers has produced a fantastic report: Chains of the past, with many recommendations on how the Netherlands should deal with this past. The city of Amsterdam has apologized for the role of the city in slavery history. President Santokhi has spoken impressively to the Dutch Parliament about the black pages we share in both our history books. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he has come to a new understanding of the importance of making excuses for the Dutch role in slavery history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u411	I am still struggling with this issue and I would like to explain it. What is the difference for me between apologizing as Prime Minister for the role of the Dutch government in the persecution of Jews, as we did in January last year, and aspects of that role of the Dutch government's action during the persecution of Jews in the Second World War, I also echoed in my brief speech at the opening of the Jewish memorial and the history of slavery? I really think that's a struggle. And I think it's a quest, too. That struggle is still in the distance of time, in the passage of time. This slavery history is so terrible, but it has been so long since I find it difficult to just say yes to it. I can only keep that to myself very personally; everyone has to answer that for themselves. In the cabinet, we have also had a lot of discussion about this. At the same time I realize how important it could be for groups of Dutch people who are hungry for it. So I get that. That's the honest answer. So I'm showing the struggle between myself and history, the distance from history. That is a very personal answer, not as Prime Minister, but just as Mark Rutte in this job, because if that were to happen, I would have to make them. Of course, if there are majorities in favour of this, I will of course do so, but you are asking me now, apart from any statements from the Chamber, what I think of that. And there's my struggle. I didn't figure that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u412	I appreciate the Prime Minister giving such an honest and frank answer. Earlier I praised the cabinet for the apology for the Dutch role in the persecution of Jews, the apology made by Minister Grapperhaus for the bombing of Nijmegen, the King's apology during the state visit to Indonesia. This morning, the Prime Minister also began to reflect on the unveiling of the Holocaust Namur monument in Amsterdam. The Prime Minister said he was standing among people of old age and felt the emotions there when people saw names of family members standing on those stones, names that came back to life. That created emotion in the Prime Minister, a huge impression. It made people get their names back, like they were back there for a while. A deep emotion. "I've been crying for a while too," said the Prime Minister. And he said, "I thought this was the most beautiful thing this morning. "It shows how the hand of history casts a huge shadow on our lives and how it still continues to work today."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u413	They were people who, when they got there, said to me, "Good that it is there, but I'm going to see if it does what to me." Then they were completely overwhelmed by emotion for that pebble. Pf! Wow. Wow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u414	Exactly this. Through many research, we now know how the past of slavery and the colonial past continue to work in stereotyping, leading to discrimination and institutional racism. I myself am very impressed by the opening of books of plantations in Suriname. People who have lived in the Netherlands for many generations and who have always wondered how they got that special last name, finally discover the opening of the books...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u415	Yes. Sambo, or other last names.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u416	Exactly. They discover the roots of their family by finally giving access to that piece of history. Yeah, it's been a little longer than World War II, but it hasn't been that long. It is also not so long ago that the Dutch State and the VOC, of which we are the successor to the right, acted in people and enslaved people to work and abused or murdered if they did not for a moment do what we as slave owners wanted from them. For the Dutch who first see their black skin color every day when they look in the mirror and know that they have fewer chances in life, those excuses may be important to them. Quite frankly, Madam President, it does not really matter how these two white men standing here feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u417	I can only talk on my own. I think that this is a good thing, and that is also true of Mr Jetten..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That goes for a lot of subjects. A teacher does the same with his whole body. Also this course is a course that you do with your whole body and where you don't just bring your head in in the morning and leave the rest at home. It's head, heart, and soul. I was just saying something about this struggle to make excuses from the office for something so far in history. I also try to gain knowledge as a historian and the context of that time, which is different from the situation with the role of the Dutch government in the persecution of Jews, of which the last survivors are still alive. I'll show you that struggle. That's a search, and I haven't figured that out for myself yet. That's the honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u418	Finally. I think it helps to show that struggle, because it also allows us to take the dialogue in Dutch society a step further. There are a lot of people who want that apology. There may also be a lot of people who are watching and thinking: why are they even talking about this? By sharing this with each other, we can take the Netherlands with us in the interest of knowing our history, so that we can be better people in the present. Finally, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to talk to Edgar Davids, Dagmar Oudshoorn or other members of the Slavery Advisory Group and to take that advice well to him and then weigh back in the cabinet or apologize. Then I hope the Prime Minister realises that as Prime Minister of the Netherlands, he is the successor to the law of all his predecessors and thus responsible for everything that has happened in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u419	That's definitely true, and I'll pick up that glove, Mr. Jetten. Thank you for that. Good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u420	Mrs Simons and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u421	I would very much like to begin by thanking Mr Jetten, who has explained here with dignity and truth that it is very good to share that struggle. It is very sincere of the Prime Minister to put his struggle here on the table. It makes him vulnerable. I did not come forward because I think I can make a better plea than Mr Jetten. There is no pin to get in between and there is little to add. However, I also hear the outgoing Prime Minister say that it is more difficult for him, because it is all just a little bit longer ago. Then I still feel the need to repeat what I shared with my fellow roommates during my maiden speech in this Chamber. I think Mr Rutte was there too, but I do not know at all. In case you weren't there, I'll tell you. When we talk about enslaved people, we're talking about my mother's grandmother, for example. It wasn't long ago. That wasn't long ago. We'll talk about her later. She's part of our family history. That's just one person. Mr Jetten mentioned those names. Many of us carry names that in no way resemble the names we originally had and many of us do not even know that anymore. I can still figure out my family's history on my mother's side by DNA, but where we're from, we're not. My father line I can only follow until the moment his foremother, Amba Leeuwin, was named Leeuwin by her slave keeper. What I share with you here, I share with my children and they will share with their children again. Family doesn't die. That's a line that goes on forever. Mr. Jetten here this week shared the names found in the name monument, with permission, of Mr. Hammelburg. It does not matter for Mr Hammelburg how long it has been. I say that because I hope that in this country there will never, but never come a time when one Dutchman says to another Dutchman: what, boy, that World War II; that was so long ago. I don't want that to ever happen. I want us to stand still at all times in horrors so that we never forget and that we may do justice to those who have been wronged in generations in all manner of ways, because they have been displaced, uprooted, moved, exploited, murdered, raped. I want us never to reach the point where we say yes, but that was so long ago, we can't do anything about it now. That is only to complement Mr Jetten's wonderful and true plea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u422	Thank you, Mrs Simons, for sharing that. Thank you. And I also agree with the strength of Mr Jetten's words. That's something to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u423	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u424	As far as it was concerned, it would have been more convenient if I had interrupted Mr Jetten, but I would have had to step forward a little faster. The Prime Minister said about the surcharge scandal that he wants to look at South Africa and Guatemala. In South Africa that is apartheid and Guatemala is a period of gross human rights violations. In both countries there has been a Truth and Reconciliation Commission to first write down exactly what happened, then make an attempt to understand how they could live together. There's a problem with the supplemental scandal. The problem is that to this day almost none of these people have gotten back a normal file. At the moment you want to go further, it is important to be able to see what has happened and to look each other in the eye on that basis. These people have often been waiting two or three years for their records. The Committee on Actual Damage is not getting those files. She has now dealt with 45 out of 45 000 applications. We haven't seen the PwC report on my parliamentary questions, like who knew about those memo-Palms two years ago. Mr Leijten has also asked questions about this today. Those are ordinary questions: what actually happened, who knew? To this day, no official has been reprimanded. If Jeroen Dijsselbloem in the newspaper whines a little bit that we shouldn't go after civil servants, then I want to tell him here that, because no one has been punished at all, I find that a very strange statement. I don't want to go after every official; we don't. An investigation has been conducted into the destruction of the 9,000 files. There were 9,000 physical files of people who appealed and were thrown into the paper shredder. There are still two sets of parliamentary questions about which laws have been broken. We don't even have that list yet. Can we expect all this factual information here for the next month? 'Cause you can't make another move unless you offer openness. We have fought for that kind of openness here for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u425	Jeroen Dijsselbloem is not here and he cannot defend himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u426	If that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u427	Can I just finish my answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u428	Dear people, there is a point of order. First, the point of order. Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u429	If that means not talking about someone who isn't there... there have been two debates on me here for more than 12 hours while I was at home. None of the 150 Members of Parliament made a point of order. I won't say anything about Jeroen Dijsselbloem anymore, but I noticed that and it hurt me a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u430	I didn't say the name Jeroen Dijsselbloem shouldn't be mentioned. I just said that I find the name Jeroen Dijsselbloem in combination with such a highly disapproving qualification complicated, because he is not there to defend himself. That's all I said. Sorry, if that's wrong. Mr Omtzigt's other point concerns a number of parliamentary questions which apparently remain and which still need to be answered. I am not prepared to do so here, but I will come back to that in the second term, because I want to answer it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u431	Thank you for that. I meant it seriously, because no one was held responsible. I want to see that PwC report. When the memo-Palmen was known, the cabinet, although it knew for sure what had happened, tried to sensitize several MPs. I want to see those lists. I want people to get their files. I want to see the investigation of the destroyed files. They've been illegally destroyed. I really want the list of laws that have been broken. So I hope to see them. Then we can continue here. If you see the pain of the people who have been waiting for this for years, who have been writing to us since 2017 at first it wasn't even a spot of "stains," then it's quite painful, because we don't only have the responsibility to correct mistakes from the past, but certainly have the responsibility to correct mistakes from the present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u432	I assume that the points raised by Mr Omtzigt are also officially recognized as questions. Of course, I know the investigation. We have talked about this before in a debate on the Palmen memo. I am going to try to answer as well as possible in my second term when those different questions are answered. I did have a few questions in the other section.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u433	Thank you, but I would also like to put something to the Chamber. The last theme is defence, asylum and education. I don't want to take these issues off or fail. There are also some questions about it. So I suggest that we deal with these issues after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u434	I was afraid you'd forgotten them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u435	No, definitely not. A number of questions have also been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u436	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on General Political Reviews. The Prime Minister still has the block, or the theme, others, and there are three other issues in it. I am therefore giving the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u437	Mr. Chairman. That is plus all the outstanding questions from the first term, with the exception of Pieter Omtzigt's last question, which comes in the second term. The question about the 2% standard. I assume, as we know, that an additional EUR 4 billion per year is needed to match the European average and over EUR 5 billion to grow to 2%. Of course, that's really up to a new cabinet. In the current budget, Defence expenditure is expected to reach nearly 1.5% of GDP in 2022, at 1.47% to be precise. After 2022, this percentage will decrease, inter alia due to the expected economic recovery. Then there was the question about education. First of all, on the subject of low literacy. Every day many people in the Netherlands have to deal with the consequences of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u438	Before you go any further, there's a question about the defense budget. I cannot read Mr Van der Staaij's thoughts, but I think that is what this is about. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u439	Mr President, how do you guess? I did have another question about Defense. In fact, my group noticed that relatively little money has been allocated for this purpose, even in comparison with other posts, whereas it was said by all parts of the armed forces: pay attention, there is a great deal of late maintenance. Can the Prime Minister imagine that this is really an issue that we say: let us invest even more in it within the possibilities that exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u440	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u441	Even for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u442	Sure, absolutely. We also have to work towards that 2% in the end. The European figures show that NATO counterparts are expected to reach an average of 1.76% in 2022 and 1.85% in 2024. This is, of course, ultimately also an obstacle to our influence within NATO and to our influence in the international community. This counts. People are looking at this. That's the freerider risk of a defense budget that's too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u443	Finally. It is a good thing that the Prime Minister welcomes it if we also look inside this Chamber to see if extra money can be invested in Defence for the coming year. But, of course, it is also important that the new cabinet should be able to go further in structural terms in the direction of an increase in the defence effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u444	Yeah, I'm sure. And perhaps even in adjustment to the budgets that are now in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u445	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Ploumen. Is it about the D.O.D.? No, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u446	Low literacy. I can say that a lot of people have to deal with this every day. This also hinders them in as ordinary but at the same time important matters as reading their own children or filling out a form. Both the ESC and UNESCO show that more is needed and more is possible. With the approach Tel along with Language, the cabinet is fully committed to preventing and reducing low basic skills. An approach to the prevention of low literacy has also been launched, in education through the strengthening of basic skills and by social parties such as libraries and the Lees Coalition. Mr. Chairman. The pay gap between teachers in primary education, primary education, and secondary education, of course, requires a structural investment. This, of course, also contributes to greater recognition of the profession and thus to a more positive image of teachers in primary education. This can also contribute to combating the shortage of teachers, but only invest in a generic wage increase in the p.o. without targeted commitment or link to agreements on quality or improvement of the professionalisation of teachers does not directly lead to more teachers or better education. This really requires more, such as investing in a targeted way in salaries, reducing the workload, guiding start-ups and offering more career opportunities. That is not on the path of the present outgoing cabinet, but the Chamber can, of course, come up with far-reaching proposals. That is always possible and perhaps also in the context of the initiative from the three parties trying to bake something out of their threes. This cabinet has also invested a lot in teacher salaries in primary education since 2018. On average, teachers have received 14% salary since the beginning of the cabinet period. In 2018 an investment of 270 million was made and teachers received an average of 9.5% more reward in 2018 and 2019. That's about teacher's salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u447	That lack of teachers in primary and secondary education is not, of course, today or yesterday. He did not just come up with the suggestions made by the outgoing Prime Minister to make the teacher's profession more attractive. We've known that for years. So I would like to say to him: The Netherlands needs primary school teachers who are properly rewarded, so that our children just go to school for five days. You don't believe it, but there are just schools in the Netherlands where the children can only go to school for four days, because there aren't enough teachers. It should have happened a long time ago, but now there's a chance. I am going to make a proposal to that effect. So it seems to me that this outgoing cabinet should embrace that proposal to close that pay gap. In addition, more things have to be done, but nothing prevents us from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u448	I await those proposals. We are talking about substantial amounts of money here. I would point out, however, that teachers have generally received 14% salary since the beginning of the cabinet period. I would also really like to suggest to Mrs Ploumen that we really look at the other aspects that are important in order to ensure that this happens successfully when she is looking for Chamberities to close that pay gap. It is our belief that you should say yes to that targeted investment in salaries, but you should also reduce the workload and provide guidance for starters. Finally, of course, you must also offer career opportunities. That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u449	The outgoing Prime Minister says, "It's a hell of a sum." But it's also a big deal. It is in the interests of our children that they can go to school as early as possible and meet teachers who are not overworked because they have too few colleagues. Furthermore, they must be able to develop. So there is every reason to invest, especially since I wanted to give that to the Prime Minister too. The OECD has found that in the Netherlands investment in education is lagging behind economic growth and even more so than in the countries around us. This is not a flight forward, this is just a catch-up that is badly needed. I am very willing to include in my proposal that there should be career opportunities and that it is also important for teachers to minimise the workload. Finally, Mr President. Minimising the workload naturally has to do with additional colleagues. It also has to do with not too big classes. But it also has to do with reducing the avalanche to rules, forms, formats, and you name it all, which teachers have to fill out. I shall also be happy to include this proposal in my motion. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister if he sees anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u450	Yeah, reducing the control pressure for sure. We all know the well-known story of the elementary school director who had neatly stacked all the circulars, which then came from Zoetermeer, in order of entry into his closet. He had done nothing else with it and it was one of the best performing primary schools. But it was always neatly placed on a pile and when it was full, he started the next pile. So that appeals to me very much. Although, sometimes there are some sensible things coming from the department. Anyway... I hear laughter and I think I better stop. I need to practice on this because I don't want to demotivate anyone at OCW. That's really not my intention. Mr Dassen had a question about asylum seekers. He is right that asylum procedures take too long. That is why there is a task force, of course! It was set up by the Secretary of State of JenV to eliminate the old stocks and provide clarity for people. That has paid off. Work is now under way on dealing with the more recent applications. There's a lot of work going on to get that done. Then there is his question about ship owners and the pushing back of boats on the Mediterranean. That's probably an article from the NRC for the weekend. Written questions have been put to the Secretary of State for JenV and she will discuss them in more detail in the reply. What does the cabinet do to reduce immigration? Van Haga asks. Well, my answer would be that we're trying to keep migration manageable. The goal is not in itself less, but manageable. Among these are aspects such as tackling the root causes of migration, good control of the European external borders, commitment to reception in the region. Think of the deal with Turkey on the reception of Syrian refugees. And the cabinet makes this effort in accordance with the international obligations to which the Netherlands is bound. Mr. Chairman. Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u451	Excuse me. Mr. Eerdmans was first. And then Mr. Wilders. But maybe it's okay to finish the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u452	Yeah, should we kill him? I will therefore immediately answer the questions that remain from the first term. There's gonna be a lot of money for the social attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u453	No, let us stick to this block and let me first give Mr Eerdmans the floor and then Mr Wilders. Then we'll go to the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u454	I think the Prime Minister wanted to say a little more about migration and its effects. I am talking about a very simple first question. Does the Prime Minister think there is currently an asylum crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u455	No. However, I think that we must be extremely careful to ensure that the numbers remain manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u456	Does the Prime Minister think that the numbers are manageable if we now have an inflow of 1,300 per week to asylum seekers, where today it became known that asylum seekers are being placed in a conference hall on bunk beds, so far as we are now in Gouda?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u457	Yeah, that also gives us every reason to get those numbers manageable again, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u458	So they're not controllable now? Then we are talking about 'unmanageable' and, in my opinion, we are talking about a slight crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u459	No, there is a continuum between manageable and out of control and we are not yet out of control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u460	Perhaps you could give me your question, Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u461	The question is very simple. We just know there's trouble. I told you I'd been to Copenhagen. There we have taken note of the Danish model. The Danish model says: people who are not supposed to be here, who are hiding the asylum chain, namely those who are safe, 15% to 20%, we are stopping them. They're leaving the country, but they don't want to get in either. We have also been to Emmen at Ter Apel, where the bus line is terrorized by people from safe countries. So those are people who want asylum, who don't get asylum. They know that, too. And they disturb the rest on the bus and on the train and around the center of Emmen. They are people from safe countries: Tunisia, Morocco, Algeria. We're not doing anything about it. In fact, it says in your coalition agreement: we need to put pressure, diplomatic pressure, on countries that do not want to take their nationals back. It is said that development aid must be stopped and that flights must be stopped, but that simply does not happen. I asked Mrs Broekers-Knol. "No, because then we have a diplomatic riot and we can't have it." Denmark says: we are doing everything we can! We are simply putting a lot of diplomatic pressure on those countries of origin, because we cannot have those people here. They cause nuisance and cause congestion in the asylum chain, which means that people now have to go to sleep in congress halls, because we have no room at all in our asylum shelter. Well, I just really want a good answer from the Prime Minister, because that's what a lot of people in the Netherlands are struggling with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u462	It is therefore also important that we keep the numbers manageable, that we also try to reach agreements with each other in Europe to properly monitor the external border, to ensure that we have as much reception as possible in the region. But there will still be an asylum flow to the Netherlands. There is nothing against that in itself; it is also part of a civilized country. But those numbers must be manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u463	Finally, Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u464	That's what I hear three times now. Three times, really. But how are you going to do that? How do we keep those numbers manageable? I say: why don't you start by doing what's in your own government agreement, which is putting pressure on the countries of origin, so that people from Morocco and Tunisia don't come here and if they're already here, Prime Minister, they'll just go back linea recta. I have already said to Mrs Broekers-Knol: just put a plane down and let that land in Morocco. Just do it! You know, it's also about showing guts. Show abroad that we are simply not in the market for that. That's what Denmark does, and you can see it works there. What we get in two weeks, they get in Denmark in a year. That is the effect of a strict but fair policy. People who can't be here, they shouldn't be here either. That's strict but fair. Just do that. I hear you say all the time: it has to be manageable, but do something about it! That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u465	We are. It is not, of course, the case that Mr Eerdmans has pointed this out for the first time. We are. I'm meeting President Buhari of Nigeria on that subject in New York shortly. In doing so, we make good agreements on these issues. But that is not possible with all countries. That still varies from country to country. I am also in close contact with Mette Frederiksen, the Prime Minister of Denmark. We're all trying to learn from each other, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u466	What an incredible fucking answer to the questions of colleague Eerdmans. I remember it well. It was 2015. We stood here, at least, in the old House of Representatives, our actual House of Representatives, I must say. At the time, the Prime Minister also said "I am for care in the region." That's what he's saying to us again. A few months later, the Netherlands was full. Reception in the region turned out to be just reception in the region with the people in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague. I stood here for twenty minutes at the General Reviews to list all cities where azc's come. That's what's happening now. You can see now that the azc's are getting crowded. As Mr Eerdmans has just said, you can see that asylum seekers are already being piled up in bunk beds in the conference halls. You can now see that we in the Netherlands now, what is it, 1,200, 1,300 asylum seekers per week. That's twice as many as four, five weeks ago. Mr. Rutte, during your reign, you brought in hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers. That joke cost us about EUR 100 billion net and a lot of insecurity. Don't be bathin' about that. Don't say "it's no problem" or "wir purchase tie." The country's gonna be full. It's just gonna be more. We need a Prime Minister who gives us something of urgency, who doesn't say it's all under control and it's all gonna be okay. It's not gonna be okay! The Netherlands is full of asylum seekers. It's just gonna happen. What's your answer to that? Why don't you do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u467	In 2015, 2016 there was indeed a serious crisis with Syrian refugees. At that time, reception in the region was established with Turkey. Mr Wilders wouldn't let me do that. He was against it. We did, thank God. First, the Western Balkans route was closed in February. In March, the detailed agreements were reached with Ahmet Davutoğlu, the then Prime Minister of Turkey, on the refugee deal that it holds to this day. The surveillance of external borders, the return of people who have no business there, but also reception in the region must be part of the policy. When I talk to the President of Nigeria tomorrow night, or what is it, we talk about these kinds of topics. We are working with all kinds of countries in the world to see how we can manage this as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u468	What do I care which President Rutte is speaking to tomorrow? What do I care? I really don't care who you're talking to tomorrow. What are you doing here, for the sixth time today, bouncing the fact that you're going to the UN tomorrow? Apparently, you think you're very important, because that's not my question. My question is simply about the people here in the Netherlands, who are going to get an azc stuffed around the corner with people who have no business there. In 2015, you also said: "No, the Netherlands, they will be taken care of in the region. Our country is full." What has this led to over the past year? I've been having a little anthology for the last year and a half. I won't make it too long. I'm not even gonna name everything. I call Rik, 18, stabbed out of nowhere in Oss by a 25-year-old status holder from Sudan. In June last year, a woman was seriously injured in a stabbing at an asylum seekers' centre in Harderwijk. It happened in May 2020 in Nijmegen. In January of this year there was a stabbing in Dronten, in Utrecht on 28 May, in Budel on 8 July. It happened August 11th, an Eritrean somewhere in Oss, I believe. It happened in Winterswijk on 11 September, on 24 June in Harderwijk and continue. It's all a mess. People don't dare let their daughters out anymore. People are afraid of the safety of their wives, because the Netherlands is once again being crawled with people who have no business here. Do you say to the next of kin of all these people or to the victims of this: we all have it under control? You can't control it. You have been appointed to ensure that this misery of 2015 does not happen again. You just leave the boundaries open and you say "wir purchase tie." That is irresponsible, and that is one of the reasons why you should leave as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u469	"Wir verwachten das" was a pronunciation of Angela Merkel in August 2015, which she later looked back on herself. She was also the one who worked hard on the agreements with Turkey in the first half of 2016 when we had the European Presidency, precisely because the situation with Syrian refugees became unmanageable in Germany, as it had become unmanageable here too. That is why reception in the region as part of the package of measures you are taking is so important. Mr. Chairman. There was another question from the first term about social law. Bringing the fees up to level is not yet the case. That's right. The present system must be made future-proof. We have dedicated several cabinet periods to this. It is essential that the renewal of the system, aimed at strengthening first and second-line legal assistance and a civil-oriented government, continues under the motto "more solutions, fewer procedures." Moreover, there is no question of bringing it to the market. The position of the social lawyer is not changed. Mrs Hermans of the VVD asked about catching up. I had misinterpreted her question at first. As a result of her question, I again tried to answer it. On 25 May, Ark's then Minister Tamara informed the Chamber about the approach to catching up. At that time, a framework was developed in which the parties were appointed and indicated how they would work together and how patients could be helped quickly. The NZa has the lead on this. The healthcare providers, insurers and supervisors then worked hard on it. The estimate of Zorgverzekerings Nederland is that three quarters of patients with a catch-up care demand can be helped in 2021. On 27 August the NZa released the first monitor on this subject. Minister De Jonge informed the Chamber about this. It says that it is expected that Dutch hospitals and clinics will have to catch up between 170,000 and 21,000 operations. That is about 11% to 14% of the number of operations that normally take place in a year. This expectation is, however, well below the previous estimate, that of before the summer holidays. Patients waiting for treatment will be informed by their caregiver when it is their turn to take care. If a patient wants to know if he/she may be able to be helped faster elsewhere, the health insurance company can help. The monitor also shows that a lot of catching up procedures have already been delivered and also catching up production, even during the last holiday period. Where bottlenecks exist, e.g. long waiting lists, the parties work together locally and regionally on solutions. Around 30 September, the Dutch Healthcare Authority will release the next monitor and the Chamber will be informed again about the current picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u470	There is an interruption by Mrs Hermans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u471	A very short question. This was a rather technical reflection of the Prime Minister on how the catching-up is going to be. I'll leave that for a while, though I can say a lot about it. One remark struck me and that is that it is much less than expected. Are we sure that's because fewer surgeries didn't go on? Or is it because those data are not known and people may still feel burdened to report to the hospital to get their treatment or surgery anyway? What's that supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u472	The latter does not seem to be the case, so people feel burdened to report. So that's the good news in itself. I might ask the NZa if she releases that next monitor qualitatively to say more about what the reason is that that volume is lower. It still sounds like a hell of a lot, 17,000 to 210,000 surgeries, but it's a lot less than we thought. Maybe the NZa can name again why that's less, which is their estimate of that. Maybe that's wise. Then about the hard drugs. It is not possible to include that in the WODC study, because that has already started and it is not possible to add research questions to that. I choose another route for my commitment to Mr Wilders. The Minister for Justice and Security will return to this question in the progress report on his approach, which he is going to send to the Chamber before his budget is discussed. We're trying to get out that way. Then page 321 of the budget. This objective concerns one of the missions for the societal challenge Health and Care as established by the Cabinet for the Top Sector Life Sciences & Health. This does not mean closing care institutions. That's not what this is about. The missions will guide the activities of the top sectors in the coming years. Although the missions are originally intended for top sector policy, they also have full scope for VWS policy. For example, moving care to its own environment comes back in the movement The right care in the right place, which is widely supported by the whole healthcare world, including patient representation. Experience shows that people like to receive care and support in their own environment or close to home. Often close care and support contribute to a better recovery and well-being. However, moving care to home or close to home is not an end in itself. The individual patient is always looked at and where and in what way he or she can best be cared for and supported. Preventing, replacing and moving care means that we can deal with the issues that are coming to us. The Health Minister described in the discussion paper Care for the future that these changes are necessary to keep care accessible, sustainable, but also world-class. Again, they obviously have meaning for VWS policy, they are meant for top sector policy, but this is not about closing healthcare institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u473	That's what it says. It says: instead of being organised in health care institutions, it takes place in its own living environment. It is not additional, as you say, so that instead of in the care facility it can also be in the neighborhood. It's instead of in the care institutions. It's literally on page 321. Halfway through the page it says: "Mission 2: in 2080 50% more or more becomes in the home environment (instead of in the care institutions) (...)." That's what it really says. There's no way I'm gonna let anyone tell me it's not true. If it says "instead of in the care institutions," it means that those care institutions are closed. That is of course very bad, because maybe you want to have some care in your neighborhood and that some people do like it better, but if you have to go to a hospital for an operation or something else, you shouldn't have to drive 60 kilometers. It just says here: instead of. So these settings are closed. I remember the Prime Minister saying in 2012: "No, we're not closing those nursing homes. They really don't close for the people who have the indication 1 through 3 or 4. They're not gonna close." They all closed. They're all gone now. Forgive me for being extra suspicious of those nursing homes in mind. Or the Minister should say that it is a mistake and that it does not say: rather than care institutions. Then I withdraw it now, but it's literally in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u474	I'm gonna say it again. This isn't about closing care institutions. You do want loving care close to home. This is one of the objectives of the top sector Life Sciences & Health. This is in line with the fact that there is still huge volume growth in healthcare. What's against organizing care closer to home if people want it to be their own? But there is therefore no objective to close care institutions. That's just not true. So I can really take that care away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u475	Then we'll fight it out with the minister during the budget. But it says so. I'm not blind. It says: instead of in the care institutions. That means that if you have 50% less care in the institutions, they don't stay open, just like with the nursing homes. I assure you, it may not be an objective, but it's here. We will get back to the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u476	Then there is the general agreement on medical-specialist care. This will run from 2019 to 2022. This includes many actions in many areas, including quality and cooperation with the labour market. The 0% volume growth in the msz agreed for 2022 is a resultant of all those actions. Not all care is hospital care. In recent years, much work has been done on the transition from patient care to, for example, the general practitioners and community care. For this purpose, general practitioners have been given extra growth space: 3% in 2022. Neighborhood nursing has been given 2.4% extra growth space. Due to covid, we have additionally made nearly half a billion euros available for additional ic care in the period 2020-2022. So that is on top of this framework. For the sake of catching up, we have also made additional agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u477	It doesn't say that. If you're souffled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u478	Yeah, sure. That was about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u479	Okay. Apologies. It's not there. It says literally that the maximum volume growth for medical-specialist care in 2022 is 0%. Zero growth means no growth. That just doesn't mean growth. We know how hard it is in the hospitals. In fact, I read today that next Tuesday the biggest demonstration of people working at academic hospitals will take place. Except for their salary, they do that because of the enormous workload. Next Tuesday, the biggest demonstration ever of people from academic hospitals, has been announced. That's because of the workload. Do you find it strange if the minister or the cabinet, including you, Mr. Rutte, uses zero growth for medical-specialist care in these times for next year? Could I ask you to step away from this zero growth, revise it and make it a plus? Then we can always judge how much that should be, but turn that zero into a plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u480	It is a plus, because this is separate from the 500 million for the extra ic-care and also for the catching-up care, additional agreements are made, so that will be on top of it anyway. But this zero is the resultant of pluses and minuses, and next to.... is also because you want to make more use of the first-line care... that the general practitioner care has been given extra growth space, namely 3% in 2022, and the district care 2.4% extra growth space. So Mr. Wilders has to tell the whole story. He won't. He's now looking through a straw at one aspect. He has to look through a wider tube at the whole and then he also sees the district care and general care, where there is extra growth space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u481	This isn't the beginning of an answer, is it? Do you think that all those people who are going to demonstrate on Tuesday, again, the biggest demonstration ever in the Netherlands of academic hospitals all look through a straw? Are you saying they're all looking through a straw? Well, it's nice for the Prime Minister to say that! You say there's more money going to the GPs and the district nurses. That's not extra money if you take it away from the growth of hospitals. You can't do that, can you? You can't say to the hospitals "you're not getting any more growth, zero growth, and we'll give that money to the district nurses and the general practitioners"? Everyone wants more money to go to the general practitioners and the district nurses, but not if that's a cigar out of their own box. Now it just turns out to be a cigar out of its own box and hospitals get 0% growth. You just shouldn't do that. Make that a plus!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u482	In the coming years, billions more will go to care. Let's just get real for a second. This is really rhetoric. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I'd like to report...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u483	There is an interruption by Mr Klaver on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u484	It's related to the care. We have, of course, had the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u485	Yeah, I was just about to say something about the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u486	I wanted to ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u487	The letter. The letter!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u488	The letter. I was waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u489	And all this is my attempt to complete such a debate. We started with the care pay, and we end with the care pay. The letter's about to go out. You will see that the non-part that comes under the Health Insurance Act is covered by the Vpb. The letter goes out now. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u490	It'll take 12 hours, but you'll have something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u491	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u492	This is nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u493	I'll listen!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u494	Sure. Well, that's pretty much what this is all about. It is really very good that the cabinet shows that it is listening to a motion from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u495	But the non-Zvw part, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u496	Sure. That's what I understand. It is really very good that we are listening to what the Chamber has asked and that it is covered by corporation tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u497	Mrs Marijnissen, SP, and then Mrs Ploumen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u498	That's definitely good. For us, the other part is important, which was also the subject of a lot of discussion. This morning it was announced that that part should lead to €13 per year additional premium for people. In any case, we have said that there is simply an adopted motion, covering corporation tax. If it is really unexpected that the outgoing cabinet will insist that this really must be done again, we do not agree with that, then we insist that this €13 will be compensated in any case in a different way for people. Otherwise, you would still get the scenario that care salaries are rising, but so would the premium for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u499	Now I've been trying to be dual present for a while. It would be very helpful if you could be in two places at once, but you can't be. But I just hear Mr Hoekstra has been working on this for the past few hours. I hear from Mr Hoekstra that in the second term I am going to make a commitment about this €13. That's right. Sorry, I couldn't quite follow, because I was standing here answering the questions and I couldn't do that at the same time. You can see how our division of labour works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u500	Finally, Mrs Ploumen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u501	It is a good thing that at least a large part of the motion is being carried out. It is also a good thing that the outgoing Prime Minister is going to make a commitment in the second term. But may I assume, because otherwise we will have to talk about it, that what he is going to promise follows the cover as expressed in the motion and just by Mrs Marijnissen, and that is the stake? Otherwise, we will have to talk about this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u502	I have no idea. I was here to answer other questions, but we will come back to them in the second term. Then it's gonna be me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u503	Okay, the Minister of Finance, who's behind you, nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u504	Yeah, it nods, and that's a good sign. Let's get back to it in the second term. I feel like we're gonna get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u505	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the cabinet side. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his detailed reply. Then we'll go straight to the second term on the side of the Chamber. A short suspension? I honestly thought that there should be a suspension between the second deadline and the votes, but I think there is a need for a slightly longer suspension. Shall we suspend for half an hour? I hear different sounds. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a moment. I would ask Members to come to me, otherwise it will be a kind of market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u506	I'm going to reopen the sitting for a moment to state that we're going to suspend for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u507	The next item is the follow-up to the General Political Reviews. I would like to ask the directors to turn their attention back to the debate, and I would ask the Members of Parliament to take their seats again. The second term of office is at issue. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u508	Madam President, thank you very much. What the Netherlands needs is new elections. The Netherlands needs a stable cabinet to deal with the major problems I am talking about real problems. These are the problems from immigration to crime and from care to housing. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag will not be able to do that. Together they are a form of sublimated distrust that is not brushed away with forced weekend walks in Hilversum or the cowardly stay away and silence of Mrs Kaag in this debate. But the big political question today is, of course, whether Rutte gets enough support for his plans from the so-called broad political centre to form the minority cabinet he wants. More specifically, are Labour Party and GroenLinks going for a motion from... if I may believe the newspapers or the news; we will see it so... 2 billion euros through the political knees to connect their souls and salvation to a minority cabinet of Rutte, after they have been expelled from the negotiating table? We'll see about that. Mr. Chairman. Nine months after the fall of Rutte, six months after the elections in March and the same time after the motion of censure adopted after the lies of Mark Rutte, the voter must now judge the PVV. The electorate must judge who will be given a new mandate. We're out of patience. The Netherlands wants majority elections, so we believe that these elections should also be held. Hence my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to dissolve the Chamber and to hold new elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u509	Mr. Chairman. It often seems like a parallel world, far from reality, the worries and problems of ordinary people in the Netherlands. In Rutteland, as I call it, we are going to completely remodel the Netherlands; I use the words of the Prime Minister. Because of climate change, we are going to spend tens of billions of euros on climate, when we are going to close hospitals and have closed down, and pensioners are not getting a cent. In the Rutteland, we pay a lot of attention to gender and wobbling, while the import of hordes of non-western immigrants who like the lhbti+ community is terrifiedly withheld. In the Netherlands of Mark Rutte, in the Rutteland, we have a shortage of hundreds of thousands of homes for Dutch people who are on the waiting list for a social rental house, while asylum seekers, status holders, get priority. And when I ask the Prime Minister... He's back on his phone now, Mr. Chairman. I hate it anyway. Maybe he'll listen when I talk to him. I don't speak that long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u510	I hear everything you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u511	Okay, that's all there is to it. If I ask the Prime Minister "do you agree to the PVV proposal to prohibit municipalities from giving priority to status holders?', He says, "No, I'm not doing that, no, I'm not going to do that." And then he forgets, if it has already been forgotten, that the VVD's election programme literally says: "There will be a ban on municipalities to give status holders priority in the allocation of social housing." Did the Prime Minister forget that? Or is his aversion to supporting a PVV proposal so great that it is apparently large enough to launch a proposal from his own election programme here, in front of me and the rest of the Netherlands? I'd like a response to that point. It's literally in his own election program. I understand he's here as Prime Minister. I think he's going to say I didn't see any agreements on this in the coalition agreement. But I would like his response to my proposal in any case in the second term. Mr. Chairman. I can give dozens but also dozens of examples why Rutteland, Rutte IV, should never be there, let alone a Rutte and Kaag cabinet. Let alone a Cabinet Rutte and Kaag, supported by GroenLinks and the Labour Party. Elections, then. That's what the Netherlands needs. If we want to make our country a beautiful and beautiful country again, we will have to have a new cabinet after new elections. Mr. Chairman. I would like to end with a number of motions to make the Netherlands a little better and a bit more liveable, should my motion on new elections be rejected. Hence the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet to invest 1 billion more in health care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u512	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet to invest 1 billion more in the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u513	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[asks the cabinet to reduce the rents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet to reduce the energy bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet to eliminate its own risk in the care sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet to improve the rate of calculation by means of a real rate of calculation that reflects the multiannual return of pension funds, thereby preventing discounts and allowing indexing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-8]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-9]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-10]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u514	Mr. Chairman. Finally, last but not least. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to close the borders for asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u515	Mr. Chairman. If these motions are accepted, the Netherlands is a bit better for the ordinary man and woman, and a bit safer for the ordinary man and woman. These expenditures we make add up to about EUR 10 billion. Our cover, I say to the Prime Minister, is that we do not spend the EUR 7 billion that the Cabinet spends on climate next year and that we also miss out on the nonsense of spending on development aid for a year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u516	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u517	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a word of thanks to the outgoing Prime Minister for his reply today and also to all the officials who have worked so hard to respond to it. We have had two long days of a solid substantive debate. I admit it immediately: in that length I myself have had quite a share. Many of our colleagues in this Parliament agree that our country deserves to work together to solve our country's major problems. We all suck like a plug that we don't have a cabinet yet. That might make it even more important and urgent for us to move together as a Chamber so that we do not lose 2022. And that's why we're here. We worked on that yesterday and today by listening to each other and asking each other questions. Having heard all the wishes, all the contributions, all the debates, I think it is possible to come together to a substantial adjustment of the budget for 2022, and I will be tabling a motion in a moment. That is not a VVD motion, but a motion bringing together all the wishes and all the important issues. A point where we can find each other. A motion which we have debated, debated and debated, and which deals with the major issues that lie ahead. A motion to work on the housing market, where houses need to be built, and with which we work on security in the neighbourhood and security of our country in the world. A motion to pay for salaries in primary education and work towards a reduction in the energy bill. Mr. Chairman. I will now come to the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is faced with a number of major challenges and these have been widely discussed during the General Political Reviews;]] [[Whereas it is important that a number of significant steps be taken by 2022 than proposed by the Demissionary Cabinet;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the budget or the tax plan for 2022 in accordance with the following proposals:]] [[by EUR 500 million to reduce the landlord's tax in conjunction with performance agreements on housing and sustainability;]] [[by EUR 500 million to improve salaries in primary education;]] [[by EUR 300 million to reduce maintenance deficits in the defence sector;]] [[strengthen security and enforcement by EUR 200 million, including by increasing the number of district agents and (green) boas;]] [[by EUR 375 million to reduce the household energy account by reducing the ODE on electricity in the first disc and increasing the tax reduction on energy taxation;]] [[by EUR 125 million to promote electrification in SMEs by reducing the ODE on electricity in the second and third disks;]] [[by EUR 120 million increase in the general tax rebate;]] [[to cover the above measures from the BIK funds (EUR 1 billion), tightening up the Earnings Stripping (EUR 700 million, which compensates for housing corporations), and leaving the remaining task in the EMU balance, which is justified in view of the revenue effects of the additional salary increases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hermans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u518	Mr. Chairman. This motion does not satisfy 100% of the wishes of any party. But it is my sincere view that this has been done justice to what has changed in the debate. We are now faced with the moment and the question of whether we are taking a step together to ensure that 2022 is not lost. I believe that we can take that step together, and that makes me proud; proud of this Parliament. So I really hope that this will take us a step forward, not just in the budget and not just in 2022. I also hope that we stand alongside each other a little more often than opposite each other and listen to each other more often rather than holding on to one's own equal. Finally. "It's restless in The Hague." That's how I started, and that's how I end up. Let it be contentious and restless in debates aimed at solving the major issues we face. Let the way we deal with each other be relaxed again, because dealing with the issues is exciting enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u519	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. There is an interruption for you from Mr Azarkan of DENK. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u520	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It has indeed been a long, two-day debate. We're getting a little close, so I may not have been paying attention. I have not heard that other parties support or co-sign the motion. It is Mrs Hermans' motion on behalf of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u521	Exactly what I said. I'm filing the motion, but it's not a VVD motion. It is a motion in which, having heard the debate and hearing all the input, we have brought together all the wishes, ideas and views on the major issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u522	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u523	I've only been here five years, but I've always seen a person file it, and then there's a name underneath it. I understand that there is one name underneath, that of Mrs Hermans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u524	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u525	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u526	Constitutionally, this is an interesting area. I wasn't asked. I understand that, too. I'm one lonely MP, at least, I'm alone, but not lonely anyway. I wasn't asked about the list. With which parties has this list been tuned in the last few hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u527	That is a fair question from Mr Omtzigt. We have listened to the debate. And when I say "we," I say the VVD, D66, the CDA. But we also discussed this with the Christian Union. Because it is also a budget in which, of course, a number of things are coming together that have been achieved through agreements from the former coalition. We have listened to the debate here. We have spoken, in the debate, but also, as is always the case here, in a cup of coffee behind the scenes. I don't think we should make that a complicated thing right now. As far as I am concerned, this is the way we do our job here. We then discuss everything here in the open, all the proposals that lie ahead. I believe that among all the points I have just read out, none of which have been passed here in the last few days. There's nothing crazy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u528	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u529	Well, I didn't elaborate on the 700 million ATAD coverage and the Earnings Stripping measure. The last time, tax has gone a lot wrong with that. Extra taxes sometimes tend to hit the wrong guy. The Earnings Stripping measure may affect companies that have made a significant loss in the crisis. They are no longer allowed to deduct their interest payments. That can push companies over the edge. That 700 million is one of the biggest items in this list. As a tax spokesperson, I myself have the experience that, if you do that one afternoon without knowing exactly what's going on, you'll regret it in a few days' time. I would just like to point out that I understand that today's coalition partners are separated from each other first in the press and have called each other into something, that this is a kind of renewed attempt to marry with the four of us and that this budget will succeed. At the BIK I can oversee it, but with a number of other measures I cannot see how they are covered. That makes it difficult for me to judge whether this is wise or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u530	There has been talk by the parties - exactly what I said - who have worked together in recent years on the basis of agreements that have existed in the past as a result of this cooperation. But like I said, we all listened. We have all spent hours debating the housing market, education, safety and energy bills. Having heard that, we have created something that does justice to all of that and we have also taken cover with it. It's true that this has to be incorporated into the Tax Plan. There will be an extensive debate on this, in which you can look carefully and assess whether the cabinet has properly and properly processed the coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u531	Thank you. I should now like to move on to the next speaker. Very briefly, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u532	This is a letter of amendment from the old coalition partners to the budget they have put forward here. These are the wishes of the old coalition partners, where a number of others have indeed been listened to. The four of them made a deal. It's okay. There's nothing wrong with that. As long as you can count to 76 in this room, it's totally fine to adopt a law. It would have been more appropriate to present such a thing to a number of other parties if it had not been submitted to them. If I'm the only one who's been skipped, then no hard feelings, because with 149 you're there. But I just have the feeling that Mr Wilders didn't get a call either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u533	I've had a lot of calls, just not from the lady. Mr President, who can be against extra money for purchasing power and salaries? I think your motion is going to make it wide in this Chamber, perhaps unanimously. But that wasn't your intention. Your intention is to use this motion to evoke the image that you can get a minority cabinet where parties like your broad middle, GroenLinks and the Labour Party, and perhaps others, will support your cabinet. Don't you realize that that puts you at a huge risk? You may be doing a nice edition again, but I do not think that anyone in this Chamber is opposed to that expenditure on additional purchasing power and teacher salaries, but if you deduce from that with your D66 partners and perhaps the CDA, that if you start negotiating again and again, which means support for a minority cabinet, you will realize that you are at great risk and that you can also put our country in a huge disaster. Do you realize that you are assuming something that is bad for the Netherlands? It may give you confidence, but if that support does not come later and we still have a crisis followed by another or even elections, then you have not moved our country forward, but three steps backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u534	I'm only distracting one thing from this. If this motion is adopted shortly, we have managed, yesterday and today, to leave the formation, no matter how complicated that may be, and to focus on the budget for 2022. We have been able to focus on the major issues and the steps that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u535	You haven't cut money anywhere, you're handing out money. It's not that hard to say "well, we've made it a year" if you spend 1, 2 or maybe 2.5 billion. You've spent a lot of money. I'm not complaining about that. It is logical that you should receive support for this in this Chamber. But no one will believe your story if you say it has nothing to do with the formation. The more you say here that it has nothing to do with the formation, the less credible it becomes. Of course, you're in trouble. You'll be lucky if you get out alone, even Kaag and Rutte, VVD and D66, still separate from the role of the CDA. But then you know that if that succeeds, it's bad for the Netherlands, but it can all collapse if that broad middle doesn't support you. This is a motion that only distributes money once again, in a nice way, and tonight the whole of the Netherlands thinks: that cabinet is going to be there and it is being supported by the Chamber. You've created an image with that. While maybe in one, two or three weeks those same parties here in the Chamber, from SP to GroenLinks to Labour Party, my party and other parties, you'll drop hard if you don't succeed. You didn't advance our country, you brought it back. Be honest with that Dutchman! No one believes it has anything to do with the formation. Tell me the truth. It's nice spending, but we can sink deeper into the swamp if it goes wrong and fakely fake your self-confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u536	Finally, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u537	Do you know what I think, or at least hope? That is that when people are watching this debate at home, hopefully they have followed this debate for two days or parts of it they have seen that we can also debate the content here, that it can be incredibly firm, that we still disagree on parts of it, but that after a lot of hours of debate we can also get somewhere together and land somewhere. I didn't count the hours, but the chairman might. I hope to vote with a large number of Members of Parliament, preferably 150 Members of Parliament, at the end of these two long days and that they dare to say: we are taking these steps together. Was that 100% when I entered the debate? No, but we are taking one step: one step ahead of the housing market, one step ahead of salaries in primary education, for people's energy bills, and I am forgetting a very important point: the landlord's tax, in order to build houses. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u538	Thank you. I just got word from the clerk that we've had a 26-hour meeting, including suspensions and dinner breaks. I give the floor to Mr Jetten van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u539	Thank you, Mr President. There's a touch of magic in the room, because what didn't work out for months was done yesterday and today. Parties from the broad middle, progressive and conservative, have been talking to each other along the lines of content: Clover with Rutte about the climate, Ploumen with Rutte about social security, Segers with Rutte about housing shortage, and D66 and the VVD about more money for teacher salaries in primary education and about safety. The most moderate parties broadly agree on the major challenges facing the Netherlands. I would almost say: let us just have the formation talks in this Chamber, because that broad middle can therefore: talk about the content. Unfortunately, however, the reality is also a lot less optimistic, because we have not fully bridged the political differences this evening. Only one small step has been taken. In addition to the billion we talked about in detail yesterday after Mr Hermans' offer, a motion has just been tabled on a second billion, so that we can focus on sensible things and make better proposals than the budget of this triple outgoing cabinet. However, there is still no prospect of support for that budget from other parties. There must be a lot of parties that say that much more is needed in 2022. That's what D66 thinks. That is what we will have to discuss in the near future, hopefully soon at the formation table, but also when we will have to finalise the final assessment of this budget later this year, at the very end of all the budgetary discussions. And we have not even mentioned the EUR 6 billion that is still waiting for us in Brussels and which we can also use wisely on important issues such as sustainability, digitisation and supporting heavily affected sectors through the corona pandemic. Mr. Chairman. It is good that we have had the discussion on the content and that we have managed to improve the budget of the Triple Demissionary Cabinet. But the political impasse in the Netherlands has not yet been broken. Hopefully, we'll be able to do it soon. Yesterday and today, in addition to general reflections on the housing, climate and opportunity crisis, I drew attention to the history of slavery and the colonial history of the Netherlands and how they work in today's society, with discrimination, institutional racism and exclusion. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister once again on his wonderful introduction this morning. He was at the opening of the Holocaust name monument in Amsterdam on Sunday. He drew a striking picture of how such a monument shows, and I quote, "how enormous the hand of history is, the enormous shadow that history casts over our lives and how it still continues to work today." Mr. Chairman. This also applies to our colonial past and the role played by the Netherlands in the slave trade and in keeping people enslaved. That too casts a shadow over the contemporary life of many Dutch people. This evening, Mrs Simons spoke impressively about this with her family story in which many Dutch people with Surinamese and Antillean roots will recognize themselves. That debate between the Prime Minister, Mrs Simons and myself gave me goose bumps. All three of us dare to be vulnerable to such a difficult subject. I am glad that the Prime Minister said: this has given me cause for thought. I hope that will also apply to other colleagues in this Chamber. As I announced yesterday, I would like to table one motion in which I call on my fellow Members to ask themselves whether it is time to take this step. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas slave trade and slavery took place on a large scale from the seventeenth to the nineteenth century, and the Netherlands played a direct or indirect important role in it;]] [[Whereas people who were enslaved were sold, employed and driven to death under inhumane conditions;]] [[Whereas our slavery history continues to work in today's society;]] [[Whereas the Dialogue Group on Slavery members set up by the Cabinet has issued a detailed opinion on "Ketenen of the Past";]] [[calls on the government to apologize for the role played by the Netherlands in the past of slavery in the year 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Segers, Mr Azarkan, Mr Simons, Mr Den Haan and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u540	Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan, Mrs Belhaj and myself have already tabled similar motions. Each time we come a step closer. I hope that tonight's special debate will make all 150 Members of Parliament think. If we believe that everyone in the Netherlands should be able to be visible themselves and have a chance to make a living, please let that also apply to those Dutch people who carry the colonial past in them every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u541	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Then I give the floor to Mr Heerma of the CDA. Mr Jetten still has.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u542	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I just forgot to read one sign. If he's not on it, I'll write him by hand. That is, of course, Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u543	Mr. Dassen, we're gonna record. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u544	Mr. Chairman. In his reply in the first term, the Prime Minister had an interruption debate with Mrs Marijnissen. In that he said at some point: you should not make it ideological. Mrs Marijnissen reacted as if stabbed by a wasp with: we have to make it ideological. That was exactly my reaction. That's what I'm getting from the heart. We talk very often in this house about what politicians say and unfortunately too often about how they say it, but it is far too little about why politicians say what they say. The Prime Minister, a piece of psychology towards the people, finds that difficult, because ideology in his head can stand in the way of fixing problems. I'd like to put it the other way around. Only when you start talking to each other about why you say the things you say, when you're ideologically dared to put down what your story is, then you have a basis to bridge the differences. I would therefore like to call on the Prime Minister not to be afraid of the ideological debate in this kind of debate, which in fact I agree with Mr Jetten.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I think that only makes politics better. That is why I am pleased that this debate has dealt with 'people's housing' more than in recent years. Even the Prime Minister knew how to use the word after some hesitation. The media are still talking about the housing market, but if we stick together to appoint our constitutional task here as it needs to be appointed, it will change. In addition, if you are referring to the reduction of the landlord's tax, part of Mrs Hermans' "limited" motion... It's important because these housing corporations aren't dowry companies. They're not entrepreneurs with profit maximization. They're not public services. They have a social task to perform. In the past, they may have behaved too much like companies, but they have a social role to play, and that is why it is right that we should stick to them and give them the opportunity to do so. That's what I'm saying from my ideological point of view. As a result of Mrs Hermans' motion, I have three motions which have a slightly more limited scope, but unfortunately that is no different. The first motion is in response to the debate on security and concerns the importance of prevention. I have already made a proposal in the first term to create a return fund. The Prime Minister stated in his first term that the cabinet would understand the thinking and send a letter about it, but I would like to give that letter a boost in the right direction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that undermining the rule of law by organised crime is disruptive for neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods;]] [[Whereas it is fair to return to society the proceeds of money, houses and goods acquired by criminals;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare the establishment of a refund fund, including the advantages and disadvantages, and to submit it to the Chamber for decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Hermans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u545	I also referred, in my first term, to an investigation that came on Monday, following the General Political Reviews of last year. This indicates that we are not looking strategically forward enough when it comes to security threats in the world. We have recently faced a submarine deal between England, America and Australia again with how quickly geopolitical relations shift. We had the crisis in Afghanistan, but also last year in the pandemic. There are major security threats that are not in the picture, as the WRR concludes, but also last Monday's report, because there is too much delusion of the day and too much short-term. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting the Heerma/Segers motion in part No. 17 (35570) on the investigation of a safety planning agency;]] [[whereas in our domestic and foreign security strategy the long-term risks are usually against the delusion of the day and short-term priorities;]] [[having regard to the 2017 WRR report calling for a National Security Council;]] [[calls on the Government to propose the establishment of a National Security Council, as advised by the WRR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u546	Mr. Chairman. I have a final motion, which I mentioned at the end of my first term, and I also referred to a joint initiative with Mr Marijnissen, following a much older initiative by Father Marijnissen, in order to arrive at a national historical museum. I think that we made the proposal just before the Corona outbreak and that with everything that followed, the priority was not just to let that joint initiative land in a motion as well. However, I do think that is important, so here we are. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a need in the Netherlands for more connection, more society and less polarisation;]] [[Whereas the discovery, experience and learning of our common history contributes to a society with greater understanding and mutual coherence;]] [[whereas the Netherlands does not have a National Historical Museum, this is a great loss and our cultural offering can be strengthened with such a museum;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the possibilities for a new National Historical Museum, which funding needs and funding possibilities exist, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the Spring Paper 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u547	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, I used mainly to explain how difficult I find it to see that we are now dealing with a outgoing cabinet and a formation that has not been smooth for more than six months, and then I say it carefully. At the same time, we are in a situation where there is considerable economic growth and we had to listen to a speech on Tuesday in which the strong message is to the Dutch: you are not getting any better. We have talked a lot in this debate about, for example, the housing crisis, which is one of the biggest issues at the moment. I thought it was sincere... Well, let me start positively: what I liked about it is in line with what Mr Heerma has already appointed. At the VVD and also at other parties here in the Chamber I hear that they also see that things that are all of us, whether it is the concern or our housing, are not a market. I think that's good news. I also agree with Mr Heerma that it is extremely necessary to have this ideological debate here, precisely in order to get out of the housing crisis. But I find it really painful, and I am really shocked that the biggest party here, the VVD, should confess: we do not yet have the beginning of a plan to tackle this housing crisis. That is serious, because it is one of the biggest problems of our time. That is why we have at least two proposals, which we think we should do now as a first step to tackle this housing crisis. The first proposal concerns the landlord levy. We have just heard an initiative which at least takes a step in that direction. It is a step in the right direction, but it is clear that it is not enough for the SP, especially if you know that in the campaigns and the election programmes there is actually just a political majority here to abolish the landlord levy. That's why the next motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is in a deep housing crisis;]] [[calls on the outgoing government to abolish the landlord's tax and convert it into an investment obligation for corporations so that affordable rentals can be built,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u548	Mr President, a motion on rents. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas rents have increased by 35% over the last 10 years;]] [[noting that tenants are often financially stuck;]] [[calls on the outgoing government to freeze the rents from 1 July 2022 to 1 July 2023 and to examine how rents can be reduced, and to inform the Chamber thereof as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u549	Another important point in my speech yesterday was the appreciation of the crucial professions. You know, the professions that were applauded for during the corona crisis. They received a thank you in the King's Throne speech, but these people are a very large group of people.They are the people who keep the country running. These people are still empty-handed because of this outgoing government. We find this really unacceptable, for example in the light of the economic growth that is indeed there. I have also said many times before that it is unacceptable given the large profits that there are, profits that do not go to the people in the workplace. If you look at the election programmes, despite this outgoing cabinet, there should be a majority to at least take a first step in raising the minimum wage. The SP believes that the minimum wage should be raised considerably, at least to €14. But there should be a majority here to at least take a first step. We believe that we are obliged to do so as a Chamber and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is broad support for an increase in the minimum wage;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the minimum wage by 5% additional to the indexation as from 1 January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Azarkan and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u550	Mr. Chairman. I also spoke in my speech about labour migration. This follows on from the story I just gave about wages, because we see that unregulated labour migration also makes it very easy for employers to keep wages low. We therefore believe that it is wise to regulate labour migration better. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the unregulated movement of labour within the European Union leads to the movement of labour both inside and outside the European Union, which reduces wages, disintegrates local Eastern European communities and deals with exploitation;]] [[noting that the current living and working conditions of migrant workers in the Netherlands and migrant workers from, for example, Ukraine and Poland are good for businesses, but not for people;]] [[noting that several countries within the European Union have to deal with the problems of labour migration and emigration, but that there is little discussion about this within the Union;]] [[calls on the government at European level to discuss the regulation of labour migration, for example by allowing Member States to agree on labour migration among themselves;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibilities for a permit requirement for migrant workers as an option for regulating labour migration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u551	Mr. Chairman. As I said, we, as SP, are looking for ways in which we, from the idea that people at the moment have to expect little from the outgoing cabinet, and also from the formation for the time being, at least as the Lower House, can now do some things that should be majorities for this. Another topic I have discussed is the loan system. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has examined the technical and financial possibilities for compensation for students covered by the loan system and has sent the results to the Chamber, but that it has not yet been examined what possible alternatives to the loan system may be;]] [[noting that an overwhelming majority of the Chamber is now opposed to the lending system in its present form;]] [[invites the Cabinet, together with the House of Representatives and student organisations, to create a new and more accessible system of study funding and to abolish the current loan system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u552	I shall also table the previous motion because we believe that we cannot allow the students who have been the victims of a failed political experiment to wait any longer. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on healthcare salaries. That is what the debate has been about for a very long time. Many of our motions have already been accepted that care salaries should be raised. Now that seemed to finally happen in a good way but this morning it turned out again that the outgoing cabinet thought it should explain differently than the House of Representatives had said here. The House of Representatives had said that these healthcare salaries should be increased and we can pay that well from a higher tax on profits for large companies. It is good to see that in the end, after a strong debate, there was a letter just before the second term began, in which the cabinet says that they will pay it from the income tax anyway. What is particularly important to me is that the initial plan, which would also increase the premium for people by €13 a year, has been said: no, that cannot be done; we are going to compensate for that. I have just heard that there is extra money from the motion tabled by the VVD, which is 120 million for the general tax rebate. Then we will at least ensure that it is not the case that the healthcare salaries are going up in the near future, but that people's contributions are going up as well. So we can compensate for that and those caregivers finally get what they are entitled to: a higher healthcare salary. But I would like to say at the same time that, after that, I conclude that this is really only a first step for the SP. A major strike has already been announced for next Tuesday in university medical hospitals. This also shows that it is not enough, but it is really important for the Chamber to say here today: 675 million for healthcare salaries as a first step, which is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u553	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u554	Mr. Chairman. More than six months ago, the Netherlands went to the ballot box. And we, as we sit here, all 150, then gained the confidence of people to do our job as a representative of the people. So we also have a responsibility to represent people and give them a voice in this Parliament. Mr. Chairman. The heart of this debate over the last two days has been for me whether we can have a discussion in this highest body of democracy about the great tasks that the Netherlands is facing. At a time of declining confidence in politics, a outgoing cabinet and a formation that is not getting underway, it is up to us, the parliament, to take control and to formulate answers to important issues such as the housing crisis, growing inequality and the climate crisis. Mr. Chairman. It was surprisingly little about the housing market, but very often about housing, as Mr Heerma said. And we weren't talking anymore about all of us having to keep barbecuing. We had a serious conversation about what climate change means in people's lives. A serious conversation about the big change that that's going to bring with it. A serious discussion about how important it is to ensure that all Dutch people can experience this and that all Dutch people must continue to feel that it is in their interest. Mr. Chairman. We have seen that everyone with an open mind looked at the position of others, when it was about market forces in care. That's all progress. I got a little "but" anyway. Politics is not a business transaction. Despite these fine talks, I have to say that this is the approach the coalition has chosen. In the end, it was not these problems that were at the heart of the problems between the coalition parties. The Labour Party, together with other parties, has tried to make it clear to the Cabinet that there are fundamental issues that need answers. I don't mean cut-and-paste, I mean no lap-and-paste, I mean serious solutions. If you don't have a roof over your head, or if you can't pay the rent, it's not gonna do you any good. Then something really has to change. Then the course must be shifted. Mr. Chairman. It is now up to us, as the House of Representatives, to change the course. We will be able to send an important signal to the outgoing cabinet when we vote. As I said, here we can find real solutions to real problems. Mr. Chairman. That is why the Labour Party, together with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, will make a number of concrete proposals. That's why I have the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that everyone should share in prosperity;]] [[whereas nearly a million people live in poverty;]] [[Whereas the economy is growing and profits are rising;]] [[whereas the outgoing cabinet reserves one billion a year for business, which was originally intended to abolish dividend tax, while households will be on the zero line next year;]] [[calls on the outgoing government to remove this earmarked billion for business, to increase the tax on profits for large companies and to use its revenues to improve purchasing power in households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u555	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that having a roof over your head is a fundamental right;]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of housing and thousands of people demonstrated for an affordable home;]] [[Whereas house milkers abuse the housing shortage but are not yet subject to any penalties for infringements;]] [[Whereas, on a proposal from PvdA and GroenLinks, a Housing Fund for 2021 has been set up to invest in quality of life;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to abolish the landlord's tax in exchange for lower rents, more housing and sustainability;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to introduce a fine for violations of the housing valuation system;]] [[calls on the outgoing government to continue the Housing Fund next year to invest in liveable villages and cities;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to cover these proposals by increasing the tax on profits for large companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-359252-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u556	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party will, of course, support good proposals, but it is only later, in the budgetary discussions, that we assess whether there is actually going to be enough to really solve the crisis that the Netherlands is facing. At present we are not sufficiently convinced of this. A different course is needed, different choices. The Netherlands must be more social, fairer and sustainable, and our proposals can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u557	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u558	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the debate over the last few days and, of course, the cabinet, particularly the Prime Minister. I liked the debate. It's been a long time since we've had such a substantive debate, that we could spend so long thinking about all the different themes, try to figure out where you stand and try to break dogma and leave sacred houses behind us. I like that. I also appreciate the attempt made by Mr Hermans to see how we can bring things together here in this Chamber. Too often black and white is thought: whether something is completely good or something is completely bad. I see Mrs Hermans' intentions to see if we can move forward as a Chamber. I'm happy about that. They're big steps. But I can also say something else about it, and that is what I am going to say, because yesterday we also had a debate on this: 'We cannot accept 100% of the wishes, not of the VVD, not of GroenLinks, of the CDA or of any party. That is a political reality, but I would like this to be less wishful thinking." I liked that in the debate. It wasn't necessarily just about the wishes we have, but about the big problems that exist. So yes, the motion that is before us is a first step towards tackling those problems, but we are far from there. The budgetary season is still a long one, and that is why I will be presenting more proposals with the Labour Party this autumn in order to be able to take further steps, because that is urgently needed. Something else struck me, and I want to name it anyway. The coverage of the motion says that there is money in the EMU balance. For anyone who thinks "what's that about?': That means that the deficit is rising and that can be done, because there are also earning effects by increasing wages. I'm very happy about that. That's a mega step that's being put here. Maybe technically, but it's a mega step. Because by looking at public finances in this way, we can see that public investment is becoming, for the first time, that recognised debt instruments can also have a positive impact on the economy. This will create much more financial space for this autumn and we are going to make use of it. Mr. Chairman. This means that we are going to have an exciting budgetary season. This debate has also shown that we have a lot of differences of opinion, but that even if we want to listen to each other, we can at least come to a discussion. I cannot yet conclude whether we are really going to agree on how to deal with the problems of housing. I really can't conclude yet whether we're gonna get out of this by making our healthcare system better. I cannot yet conclude that we are really in agreement on tackling climate change. But I've seen that a conversation can help us. I would like to make a real appeal: the discussions on the formation, the substantive negotiations, must start now. As far as I am concerned, they are about a majority cabinet with five or six parties. Before I table two motions, I think it is important to point out that the rapprochement we are seeking with each other is a sign of our attitude. If we agree on the substance of the matter, we will be in favour of it. We will always bring forward proposals. But if the idea here were that a right-wing minority cabinet could count on a mild response from GroenLinks, you would come true. Our opposition will be firm and hard. I am convinced this evening that the possibilities are endless, because there is a social majority in this Chamber, as I called it in spring. If there is a right-wing minority cabinet, we will do everything we can to get it to carry out as many left-wing plans as possible, which are put forward by the majority of this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions. The first concerns tackling climate change. We really need to take bigger steps there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is not on track to meet the climate targets;]] [[Whereas the Secretary-General of the United Nations has called on countries to declare climate emergency and has already done so in countries such as Japan, France and Bangladesh;]] [[Whereas Urgenda and 12 youth organisations have called for a climate OMT of independent scientists to be set up to advise the government on a monthly basis on how to tackle the climate crisis;]] [[calls for the climate emergency situation;]] [[calls on the Demissionary Cabinet to set up a climate OMT to advise the government on a monthly basis on how to tackle the climate crisis;]] [[points out that in the new cabinet, the Minister of Climate Change will have power over cabinet plans which are not in line with agreed climate targets;]] [[Calls on the outgoing government to charge large polluters with a carbon tax that generates money and uses the revenues to reduce energy taxation for households as early as 2022;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to reduce tax exemptions for large polluters as quickly as possible with a concrete timetable and to use their revenues for a working guarantee fund to guide workers to new jobs and create new green jobs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u559	No, no, no, I have a question about the motion. We looked a little confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u560	She took an intimidatingly long time to walk forward, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u561	Yeah, I thought so, too. It wasn't us, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u562	Yeah, I'm kidding. No, I just have a sincere question about the motion. I am very much in favour of a climate minister with perseverance, but there are two crises at the same time that are related: climate and biodiversity. This cabinet has chosen to hang a Secretary of State for Climate Policy from the Department of Economic Affairs. Is it also the intention of GroenLinks and the Labour Party to have a Minister of Biodiversity, Climate and Ecological Affairs, because it is so coherent and we also see that nature is not doing very well as nature remains in the Ministry of Agriculture? I say it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u563	I think you're expressing yourself extremely carefully. Let me outline the dilemma. As far as tackling climate change is concerned, the major challenge will be to turn industry around until 2030. I think that the Netherlands has made a good move in bringing climate to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because it is precisely these two areas that you want to keep together very strongly. I myself think it would be wise to have a Ministry of Space, where nature, nitrogen and all these things, biodiversity, come together. With that, I do not want to argue in favour of putting climate in a separate place. The CO reduction, where the Minister for Climate should be primarily responsible, goes best if you are not opposed by another minister, who is responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u564	Agreed. I also recognise the dilemma, but for both climate and nature we need perseverance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u565	I fully agree with that. Mr. Chairman. I don't have much time left, so I'll read you another motion. I am glad that money will be made available for education, but that does not completely close the gap. Every time a piece is poemed, a piece and another piece, but it is important that we take the whole step. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all children deserve the best education and this starts with good teachers;]] [[Whereas the growing shortage of teachers poses a threat to the quality of education;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to draw up an overall plan to reduce the shortage of teachers, with concrete and manageable goals, based on the Van Vroonhoven report;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet, as part of this plan, to close the pay gap between primary and secondary education as quickly as possible, thereby giving the teacher's profession the value it deserves and making the profession more attractive;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to make the regime for broad bridge classes for 2022 a structural policy;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to pay these plans by tackling tax avoidance in large companies in line with the electoral programmes from left to right, namely the introduction of the deduction restriction on low-tax payments within the group, the tightening of the Earnings Stripping measure, the tightening of the CFC rule in corporation tax and the limitation of the 30% regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u566	The motion was also tabled by Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u567	Yeah, not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u568	I was within the time limit, but I would like to go over the time to say that this motion was partly tabled by Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u569	Look. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u570	Thank you, Mr President. Climate, nature and the vulnerability of that one planet that we know is capable of living, really do not care whether or not there is a willingness to cooperate here in The Hague. So I am glad that we were able to have a debate on the budget once in which there seemed to be some room for manoeuvre. I also remember General Political Reviews in which we had debated for two days and at the end of the song the only thing that changed was that we got the flag in the hall. I remember it well. The Party for Animals was the only one opposed. I see Mr. Van der Staaij with his thumb up. We believe that nationalist flag display is not going to help very much and that there are more important things to do, such as taking the crisis seriously with our living environment, with the climate and with biodiversity. That has everything to do with the way we deal with other species on Earth. Only when we dare to start thinking from the most vulnerable, the animals, nature and the environment, will you see that we are willing and able to make the changes that make it possible for humans to live on this beautiful planet. So we're gonna have to get out of our way. It's as simple as that. We will have to avoid our own interests, our own short-term interests, and possibly our own repulsion against change, because without radical system change, we are not going to make it. Within this context, we have discussed the budget, the Dutch national budget for 2022. It is perhaps just a grain of sand in the big picture, but it is of great importance. The Animal Party has a number of proposals to adjust that budget slightly towards the opportunities we need to take to keep the earth viable for humans and animals, for future generations. Mr. Chairman. Many of the crises are simply linked. As far as the housing crisis is concerned, I welcome all the proposals made by other parties to abolish the landlord's tax and to see housing as a right instead of a market that can benefit investors in particular. All these measures must be implemented. But the simple fact is that if we continue to allocate two thirds of our land to agriculture in the Netherlands, we will not come out. I would remind all those who wish to form for a new cabinet that the Den Uyl cabinet has fallen over ground politics. Let's not make that mistake again. We will have to drastically reduce livestock farming. Even then, land is released and the nature crisis is solved and we get the space to restore nature in the Netherlands. That also means that we can rebuild the homes that are needed. Mr. Chairman. Everything has to do with everything. The Animal Party has a number of proposals that I hope will be supported by the VVD, given the constructive tone we have heard in recent days. That would be so much fun. I'm very curious. The first proposal is as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the one hand, the government has already allocated nearly EUR 2 billion to the purchase of livestock farms while, on the other hand, there is still room for expansion in livestock farming;]] [[noting that expanding and buying out is at the same time a waste of taxpayers' money;]] [[noting that further measures will have to be taken because the nitrogen crisis has not been resolved, nor does the climate crisis;]] [[calls on the outgoing government to establish a moratorium on the construction of new stock houses and on the extension of existing stables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u571	The second motion is to protect farmers in the Netherlands, who urgently need to make them more sustainable. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that European free trade agreements including agriculture lead to additional imports of cheap agricultural products from countries elsewhere;]] [[whereas these countries often produce under lower production standards and this leads to a significant increase in unfair competition for Dutch farmers;]] [[Whereas trade agreements in which agriculture is included often encourage deforestation;]] [[points out that the Netherlands cannot accept free trade agreements which include agriculture with countries where production standards in agriculture are lower than those in the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u572	Then there is the expenditure on climate change. Very good, but you have to spend it on the good stuff. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the outgoing cabinet reserves 3 billion extra for the increase in the SDE++ grant pool;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to exclude woody biomass from these SDE++ grants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the outgoing cabinet reserves 3 billion extra for the increase in the SDE++ grant pool;]] [[calls on the outgoing Cabinet to exclude CCS from these grants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the outgoing cabinet reserves 3 billion extra for the increase in the SDE++ grant pool;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to exclude manure digesters from these subsidies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-30]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u573	Mr. Chairman. Finally, in the context of constructive cooperation, a reminder of an approved motion by the CDA which has not yet been implemented. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas large internet stores have benefited greatly from the corona measures and have benefited from the lockdown, while local, small retailers have been hit hard by the lockdown;]] [[noting that the outgoing Minister of Finance is not yet ready to explore a solidarity levy, despite the Court's request;]] [[noting that a solidarity levy is not included in the Tax Plan 2022;]] [[calls on the outgoing government to make room in the Tax Plan so that a solidarity levy for large Internet stores can still be included,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u574	I would also like to congratulate Mrs Simons on her fine contribution to the debate on the history of slavery. I was moved to tears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u575	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u576	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u577	Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u578	Madam President. I started yesterday with a close associate of Dr. Martin Luther King, the now elderly minister Harcourt Klinefelter. He had the tip: keep eye contact; you have to look each other in the eye. But if you look each other in the eye for a long time, it gets a little uncomfortable. We are now in a formation that does not want to become formation. We sit and watch each other forever. We have a lot of eye contact, but it's not getting anywhere. I also see Mrs Ploumen staring head-shaking. That's right. It'll stop with that eye contact one day. Sometimes you just have to turn a quarter and get to work. We have actually done this these days: a little less eye contact, a little more hands out the sleeves. I liked it. This has had a nice impact on Mr Hermans' motion. These were important issues presented in the debate and around the debate, such as education, salaries in primary education, and reductions in the energy bill. This has been presented from different sides here. There was also a TNO report today that said: watch out for that energy poverty. That's what money is made available for. The landlord levy has also been discussed in detail. It was about housing. Mr. Heerma, we will never forget it, and we will always repeat it: housing. By the way, it was wrong in our motion. I took it out right away. It said "dwelling market," and that has now indeed become "a home." Reduction of the landlord's tax makes a real difference. We got to work and something's gonna happen. The same applies to safety. We know how vulnerable we are, how vulnerable freedom is, close to home and further away, with the DOD and the police. We've got to work and we've worked together; thank you for that. Also thank you for the letter on healthcare salaries. We have tabled a motion on that. This also led to political debate; a rather heated debate. There was even a motion of censure. But how beautiful, if you give each other some space to think, to talk and that it lands somewhere, hopefully to some satisfaction. I do have one more question about that. The explanatory statement I heard was a little different from what was in the letter. Perhaps there could be a more precise explanation of the coverage of the salaries that are going to rise. Why do we do that? That is because the people who have preceded us, who are so at the forefront of this crisis, deserve to have higher salaries, because they have long been left behind. This is a group that is now being served first and I'm happy about that. Madam President. I've got three motions, and I want to get there fast. I also talked about a journey from the first mountain to the second mountain. The Prime Minister referred to that. The book I quoted is still available, so if there is an interest in it, I'd like to hear it. Step by step, we do that, and sometimes with a few big steps. Mr Hermans' motion has a few very big steps in it. Here are some other steps, small and large. The first is about the loan system, which I said was such an expression of the first mountain that we have to get rid of. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since the introduction of the loan system, the number of students with a student debt has increased significantly and the average student debt is also higher than before;]] [[considers it undesirable that young people should seek employment and housing after their studies with a build-up of debts;]] [[points out that the loan system should be abolished as soon as possible and replaced by a basic grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u579	Then the second one. We must not only take good care of people, but also of creation. This goes back to an isolation programme that has been announced, for which money is allocated in the budget. Again in cooperation with colleague Heerma and with colleague Klaver, who is not here for a while, we are happy to present our ideas. I see the Minister of the Interior and Housing nodding, because there's a lot to do there. We are indeed talking about energy poverty. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having noted that in the budget, following the Segers/Klaver motion (35570, No. 26) more than half a billion euros are earmarked for a National Isolation Programme;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, due to rising energy prices, more than half a million Dutch people are affected by energy poverty, while they have little or no opportunity to reduce their energy bills;]] [[Whereas a number of political and social parties presented last week a manifest National Isolation Programme containing twelve proposals for completing the National Isolation Programme;]] [[calls on the government to explicitly involve the proposals of the manifesto in the National Isolation Programme to be set up in the short term, so as to start quickly with the faster, smarter and more social isolation of the worst isolated homes with low-income households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Klaver and Mr Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u580	All the way to the end. I have signed a motion by Mr Marijnissen on the regulation of labour migration. That subject always has two sides. She took one side by the head, I took the other side. Then it is about the fair and just treatment of people who come from another EU country, but who also have to be able to live decently here. Hence the next motion. It's my last one, Madam President, because I see you looking a little worried, but it's running late anyway, so... anyway, the motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a large number of EU migrant workers are homeless, that this group has no or no right to receive care and assistance and that this causes many personal and social problems;]] [[Whereas a temporary solution to this problem is urgently needed, pending structural solutions such as the separation of the role of employer and landlord, so that migrant workers do not go into the street immediately if they lose their jobs;]] [[Whereas it is important that the possible reception and assistance of homeless migrant workers should be temporary and should aim to resume work or return to the home country;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the VNG and the G4, to draw up a tailor-made plan for homeless EU labour migrants, which takes into account the short-term reception and counselling opportunities aimed at returning to work or returning to the home country, and to inform the Chamber before Christmas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u581	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet to terminate all corona measures immediately and not to use discriminatory QR codes to provide access to social life,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to never apply a QR code to situations not related to corona in order to exclude the use of access QR codes under, for example, a personal CO budget once and for all,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet, like Denmark and the United Kingdom, to set a hard deadline for all the corona measures, which will really mean that the corona measures will expire,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet to lay down the conditions under which all the corona measures will be terminated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-36]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-37]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-38]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u582	Finally. By the way, this motion is special for my friend Hugo de Jonge. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares that it is undesirable for ministers, through verbal or non-verbal communication, to show contempt for MPs and not to listen to them during their speeches,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u583	Madam President, Members of the Cabinet, Lost I, sprung from stratospheres, resultant of ions, gamma rays, the lamb, the particle, the field, infinity claimed on the grey stone of Notre-Dame. The days pass here without night and tomorrow, the years keep without snow and without fruit deceiving the infinite hidden. The world as a flight. Where are you gonna end up? Where are you anchoring? What are your spheres attached to? Desire, success, a game of wild beasts, eternity. On their traliers you fly. People like animals, stars like guts. Jungle death as his and his ground of creation. Humans, massacres of peoples, Catalan fields. Everything's going down, into the gravel abyss. The world commemorated, and space and time, and what humanity was worth, and is trying. A toy of pure immeasurability. The mythologist. From where, to where? No night, no morning, no jubilee, no relic. You would have loved to get some help. Alone, with whom? Ah, when once everything leaned towards the middle, and also thinkers only thought of God, they stayed with shepherds and lambs. When the blood from the chalice kept them pure and everything flowed out of that one wound. And they broke the bread that everybody enjoyed. Oh, far, deep filled state, which once also excluded the lost I.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u584	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. There is a question from Mrs van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u585	I wanted to ask Mr Baudet if he would mail me the Jip-en-Janneke version, because my IQ is too low for this prose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u586	It's not a prose. It's poetry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u587	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u588	I call Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These two days we have talked extensively, including content, about housing, social inequality, education issues, and solving the climate issue. We have seen with each other that these major problems need to be tackled quickly and decisively. These crises...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u590	I'd like to ask the Chamber to be a little quieter. I call Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u591	These crises are not today's. It's been warned for years. There was just talk of ideology. I read today that nothing is as ideological as the status quo. These challenges call for a government that dares to take leadership, a government that not only plans to close down on the demands of the judge, but dares to express a vision of the future, not only for the coming year or four years, but also for the coming decades. They are not asking for a government that only wants to transfer climate debt and ageing debt to future generations, but for one that sees opportunities and offers structural solutions. That's what next generations deserve. Mr. Chairman. Money is available for all these transitions, including for the Netherlands. It would be nice to use that money to do something where people need it most: investing in structural solutions. We should stop discussing it and extend it for us. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the outgoing government has still not claimed the funds made available from the European Corona Restoration Fund;]] [[noting that these funds, EUR 5.8 billion, are available to the Netherlands and that at least 37% of these funds should be invested in the climate transition and 20% in the digital transition;]] [[noting that the Netherlands can only claim this EUR 5.8 billion from the Corona Restoration Fund if structural reforms are implemented, as set out in the country-specific recommendations;]] [[noting that these are necessary reforms of the housing market, the labour market and tackling money laundering;]] [[Whereas the necessary reforms are no longer possible and need to wait for the formation of a new cabinet;]] [[noting that the funds available from the European Corona Recovery Fund are now not included in the State budget for 2022 and therefore the Court is not included in the design and decision-making of the reform plans;]] [[Calls on the outgoing government to prepare plans for the EUR 5.8 billion available for the Netherlands and to send a letter to the Chamber before 1 November 2021;]] [[also invites the outgoing government to prepare the reform plans in line with the country-specific recommendations so that, when the new cabinet is appointed, the Chamber can be included in the recitals and inform the Chamber accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen, Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u592	The second motion is in line with the previous motion by Mr Segers and Mr Heerma. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the social loan system was introduced in 2015;]] [[noting that this was the end of the basic student grant;]] [[Whereas the total debt of young graduates has increased significantly since the introduction of the social loan system and this has reduced them to varying degrees;]] [[points out that the social loan system should be abolished and a basic grant introduced without compromising the quality of education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen, Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen, Mr Simons and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u593	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for all the answers today. We were far from satisfied with all the answers, but you have the respect of our group for the way in which you have gone through this day, full of energy. Thank you, Mr President, for this sometimes difficult debate. We had some serious discussions. This was particularly true in our case in terms of climate, energy, asylum policy and purchasing power. We think there is work to be done to get the Netherlands more JA21 proof. To this end, we have five proposals. I'll let them hear it in a minute. We want to achieve results, and in that case we have been pleased to note that at least two points which were quite important to us in this budget debate, namely more money for defence and a lower energy bill, have been included in the Hermans motion. We shall vote in favour of this motion. However, we will not vote for the 7 billion invested in the deep climate echohole, according to this Millions note, with an unmeasurably small impact on global temperature growth. We are against that. I shall now turn to the five proposals. The first is the motion "Do like the Danes." I forgot to mention that we heard from the Dutch ambassador in Denmark how much the Netherlands is switching to corona policy with Denmark, on covid. The Minister will recognize that. The question is, of course, why this does not happen in the area of asylum policy. To that end, I make this appeal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Danish policy is effective in reducing the influx of asylum and achieving return;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the Danish asylum and return policy and to inform the Chamber of the elements that can be taken over;]] [[calls on the Government to support the reasons why not in cases where the Government considers that it cannot be taken over,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u594	The second motion is the motion for a resolution on means of pressure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asylum seekers from safe countries put a great deal of pressure on the asylum chain and cause a great deal of nuisance;]] [[noting that the cabinet has been unable to return these persons;]] [[Considering that the government agreement includes means of pressure towards countering countries of origin, including the withdrawal of visas and landing rights and the cessation of development aid;]] [[noting that these means of pressure are not used or are not used at all;]] [[calls on the Government to take immediate action to increase pressure on counter-productive countries of origin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u595	Then the motion "nuclear reactor." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a recently released KPMG research report on nuclear energy, commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, indicates that the market is interested in the construction of a new generation of III+ reactor provided that the government provides certainty;]] [[noting that Finland, France and the United Kingdom are already building this type of reactor;]] [[Whereas the construction time of a generation III+ reactor is between four and seven years;]] [[invites the government to explore and examine in the scenario studies the possibility of a new generation of III+ reactor in the Netherlands within ten years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u596	Then the motion "Borsssele." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the Nuclear Energy Act, the Borssele nuclear power plant would have to close Article 15a on 31 December 2033;]] [[noting that operator EPZ wants to keep the current Borssele nuclear power plant open for 10 to 20 years after 2033;]] [[Whereas research carried out by ENCO, at the request of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, shows that keeping the Borssele nuclear power plant open longer is the cheapest way to save CO;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the closure of the Borssele nuclear power plant, as set out in Article 15a of the Nuclear Energy Act, taking into account the necessary technical and economic possibilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Eerdmans and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u597	The final motion is aboutzzp'ers. That is the motion for a law on self-employment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has more than 1 million self-employed people without staff and that their importance for the economy is high;]] [[noting that successive arrangements are patchwork that create uncertainty and uncertainty for all interested parties;]] [[Whereas it is possible to maintain abuse, which puts people in sham constructions as so-called "zzp'er;]] [[Whereas a self-employed legal position for thezzp'er is a valuable building block for a balanced regulated labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a legal framework for self-employment which lays down the legal status ofzzp'ers in all relevant aspects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u598	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u599	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u600	Madam President. It was a long meeting, but one with a concrete, good result. The motion tabled by Mrs Hermans shows that there is broad support for listening to many wishes, from the coalition parties, but also from other parties. That is a long Dutch tradition of "setting and folding," I once heard from my lectures in Leiden. Hourly meetings, even once in the Dutch Republic where all kinds of glories, cities and nobility had to exert their influence, were aimed at getting out with each other. "Polding" was later called. To be honest, I found that much has been done in the run-up to this budget, and that is a good thing in the situation where we do not yet have a new cabinet. Mr. Chairman. In any case, the SGP recognizes itself well in the present result. Of course, for our group too, we have all kinds of far-reaching desires, but above all we recognize a broad, large common denominator in them. All kinds of wishes do not come from individuals or groups, but are focused on the views on the importance of our country. In any case, for my group, we welcome the extra money for Defence and Security, including the district agents, the lower energy bill for households, but also for companies, including greenhouse horticulture. I would add that the disadvantage of this variant of polders may be that it has a considerable price tag if you want to meet many parties' wishes. So perhaps one of the important reasons why we are looking for a new cabinet is that there are also clear anchors for fiscal policy for the coming period. Mr. Chairman. Finally, before I come to two motions. I was reminded of what informant Tjeenk Willink said earlier in the formation process: it is a good thing that the Chamber itself conducts debates on topics that matter, in order to set out lines in this way as it were, picket posts. Not only do you have to look at the cabinet, but you can also pronounce yourself a chamber. In this light, I would like to refer the following statement together with Mr Omtzigt to the Chamber on a subject which we have been concerned about for a number of years. Fortunately, we saw that there was increasing support, but there is still a clear wish for a next cabinet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the tax gap between one and two-earners has widened over the past decade and does not reflect the capacity of one-earner families;]] [[Considering that the Commission has published a report this year which clearly highlights the negative effects of the current tax system on the tax burden of a earner and that it also makes proposals to reduce the tax burden between one and two earners;]] [[points out that a subsequent cabinet should take concrete measures to reduce the tax gap between one and two-earners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u601	The second motion concerns realising exactly what you say yes to with regard to objectives in the international context. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission intends to impose a binding target of 48% CO reduction by 2030 for the non-ETS sectors of the Netherlands and also to introduce an emissions trading system for the built environment and road transport;]] [[Considering that this strengthened objective goes well beyond the 35% reduction that would be achieved with current policies and that the proposals could both lead to a few billion euros in burden-sharing for households and businesses and additional public expenditure;]] [[considers that it is important that the subsidiarity and proportionality of these proposals have been carefully assessed;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[carry out a detailed analysis of the impact of these proposals on households, SMEs and public expenditure;]] [[the subsidiarity and proportionality of these proposals, in line with the Bishop motion (Room 21501-20, No. 1504);]] [[inform the Chamber of the appearance of climate and energy exploration and involve the results in the assessment and European commitment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u602	I can't get to poetry anymore. I'd like to leave it with these motions for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u603	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u604	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Prime Minister for the answer, to colleagues for the long debates. Thank you for chairing. Mr. Chairman. A Dutch philosopher once said: every disadvantage has its advantage. I believe football was a hobby of his. Having a missionary cabinet also means that we have operated differently during these two days. When you talk to the coalition from the opposition, you're normally some kind of oyster with a crowbar, but not that much happens. I'm actually kind of hopeful. There's just two-and-a-half billion in two days. That promises something for the forthcoming budgets, because normally you are happy to see a few hundred million changes after thirteen or fourteen budget rounds, at the end, in December. So this is hopeful. Mr. Chairman. When I was in the Great Church the day before yesterday, we said, "Hooray, hooray, hooray." And we couldn't say that the year before, so I thought, at least that's progress. That had to do with corona. I would like to see us say, in a year's time, "whore, hooray, hooray," but for the people who were mentioned in the speech of the throne, for the vulnerable. For the Groningers who have been waiting ten years for their damage to be dealt with. For the people who are victims and who really suffer every day, not only suffered, but now suffer every day. They're just not happy about these last two days. But also for our young people, who are struggling. Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we have spoken with each other, with the research that is to come, and also with the research that is to be done, and I would like to mention it as a sort of 'vision' of people's housing. I know the Prime Minister thinks that's more of a sum sum, or putting together a number of things that are going to happen there, but I think we can all help him a little bit. Mr President, I have a number of motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that security is a core task of the government;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that young people do not go into crime, with more (youth) neighbourhood agents and a broader neighbourhood approach, for example through the multi-annual National Recovery and Perspective Programme on Leisure and Security, advocated by municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that on 1 April 2017, the Decision amended the authorised institutions' housing 2015 population, simplifying the sale of corporate housing, making the sale of such housing more attractive to, in particular, foreign investors;]] [[Whereas there are currently major problems regarding the affordability of housing and the price-raising effect of investors;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently review this regulation in the light of the current housing market crisis and, if necessary, to adapt it as a matter of urgency, in order to avoid price displacement and loss of housing in the affordable segment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that independent researchers advise to secure a structural multi-annual budget of EUR 5 million for the establishment of a National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism and to opt for a gradual build-up phase;]] [[noting that the government has now provided only a budget of EUR 2 million per year;]] [[calls on the government to work towards a budget for the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism, gradually building up a structural multi-annual budget of EUR 5 million, and to seek cover for this in the funds initially earmarked for the Job-related Investment Discount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that housing corporations fall within the scope of ATAD and that this costs housing corporations millions;]] [[whereas the SGEI exemption decision allows the government to exclude housing companies from ATAD without conflicting with European State aid rules;]] [[Calls on the Government to exclude housing corporations from ATAD and to seek cover for this in the funds initially reserved for the Job-related Investment Discount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-50]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-51]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-52]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u606	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like my colleagues, I would also like to thank the members in trade union K and, of course, the outgoing Prime Minister, for his enormous stamina and for answering the questions. I would like to thank my fellow Members, you and the Registry, but I would also like to express my special thanks to the messengers and the people in the restaurant, who always take great care of us during these long days. That may be said at some point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u608	When I look at my roommates, I think it is quite right with the rest of the Netherlands: we are all here on average 50-plus. The members currently in box K are not entirely representative of that fact. There are two who share my year of construction and the others are 40-plus, but they also go pretty much towards the 50. I hear you laughing, but I just checked. A few more years, folks! "You could be my son," I hear. Do I really look that bad? But not everyone likes getting older. Mr. De Jonge made that clear just now by pretending to be younger than he is. Then I always think of the beautiful spell of Mark Twain: "Don't regret growingolder. It's a privilege denied to many." Perhaps the members of the cabinet are still in some kind of denial phase and there is so little about older people's policy in the Millions' Note and the budget. Hence the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that half of all adults in the Netherlands are currently 50 years of age or older and that this number is rising rapidly in the coming years;]] [[noting that this group has received little attention in the Millions note and the budgetary documents;]] [[whereas everyone in our country needs to be able to age well and that the necessary conditions are not yet in place;]] [[points out that an integral policy for the elderly should be included in the coalition agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the demographic projections for the Netherlands show major changes in the number of pensioners and the number of newcomers, with a major impact, and are further predicted for care, housing, education, pensions and living together;]] [[Whereas the demographic scenario study resulting from the Dijkhoff/Buma motion has not yet received the necessary follow-up and deserves urgency;]] [[invites the Cabinet, together with the Planning Offices, to develop a method to periodically assess demographic developments and to explore whether and how a State Commission on Population Growth and Ageing can make recommendations for policy options, and report on them before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is not enough flow on the housing market to allow start-ups, families and older people to find suitable housing;]] [[noting that there is no vision in the cabinet's plans for housing the elderly;]] [[Whereas priority should be given to older people's housing and, in particular, to clustered forms of housing for the elderly, thereby opening up this flow and restoring prospects for start-ups and families in the housing market;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a national programme to live for the elderly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-54]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Hermans and Mr Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-55]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u609	Last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the housing market is one of the biggest challenges of the present;]] [[Considering that the cabinet's plans for the next 10 years include 100 million a year as a stimulus to the housing market;]] [[noting that the urgency is high and that a well-functioning housing market is of great importance for the Dutch economy and the well-being of everyone;]] [[calls on the government to bring forward the 10 times 100 million and to include in the performance agreements concrete plans on the construction of older people's housing and the realisation of clustered housing for older people in order to start the flow into the housing market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u610	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u611	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I now give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u612	I'm not going to everybody... I'm going to thank everyone, but I'm going to say "thank you all" or else I'm gonna lose too much of my time. I've got a whole stack of motions. So thank you all! A fellow citizen, Martin Groen, came to us with a very nice idea. He suggested providing motions with a sentence in which the value of a motion for citizens becomes clear at one stroke. From now on, BBB will make this clear in every motion and thus take a first concrete step in restoring citizens' confidence in politics. It is also a first step towards a new governance culture by always placing citizens at the heart of a motion. Here we go! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas for every cow we take from here, three are returning elsewhere in the world;]] [[whereas halving the livestock population around the world is therefore not doing anything about climate change;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to stop considering halving livestock as an option to improve the climate, so that citizens can see that the cabinet uses common sense and is committed to innovations rather than to reduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u613	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, depending on their type of training, people are systematically referred to as low or high-educated in government documents, as recently five times in the Millions Note;]] [[Whereas professionals working in the coking plant deserve greater recognition for the manufacturing industry which is indispensable for society and the economy;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to speak and write only about practically trained (MBO), theoretically trained (HBO) and scientifically trained (wo);]] [[and calls on the House of Representatives to use the same terms, so that citizens always feel valued with whatever training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that our king did apologize for Dutch violence in Indonesia;]] [[noting that neither the Prime Minister nor the King have apologized to the Indian community;]] [[Considering that the Indian question has still not been resolved after the Second World War and that salaries to military and civil servants have largely never been paid and compensation for loss of their assets is still pending;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to reach a final, comprehensive, comprehensive and just settlement for all the injured, up to and including the second generation by 1 July 2022, so that citizens can see that Cabinet and House of Representatives are making serious work of justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-59]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u614	Furthermore, Mrs Simons also tabled the previous motion on practical training. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the House of Representatives is strongly insisting on the realisation of a National Isolation Programme;]] [[noting that the approximately 5 million jobs that visit a construction market per month are potentially the largest insulation company in our country;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to open up the instrument of an isolation voucher (a voucher) to the do-it-yourselfer, so that do-it-yourself citizens can save costs in isolating their homes and scarce professionals can be mainly used for complex work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ammonia and livestock regime (Rav) has a restrictive effect on the innovative capacity of Dutch entrepreneurs;]] [[noting that the nitrogen reduction and nature restoration Act requires a very high nitrogen reduction;]] [[Considering that all possible innovations to reduce emissions should be deployed;]] [[calls on the government to stop using the Rav list as a condition for emission reduction on the agricultural holding, thus stimulating innovation, so that farmers no longer have thresholds to reduce emissions of harmful substances and to make air more clean for their environment and citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government informs citizens about healthy food and thereby takes the Disk of Five as a guide;]] [[Whereas healthy food is often more expensive than unhealthy food;]] [[Whereas, in the end, a citizen decides what he or she eats;]] [[Whereas it is important that all children receive at least one healthy meal per day;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to halve the VAT on Disk-of-Five products in 2022 and to abolish it within three years so that all citizens can continue to buy affordable and healthy food,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-61]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-62]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u615	I'm afraid I'm running out of time. This last motion was also tabled by Mr Van Haga, as was the motion for a resolution before it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u616	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u617	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like Mrs Van der Plas, I wish I had a little more time, so I could also reflect on this experience of the very first Prince's Day, the very first General Political Reviews and the special circumstances under which they take place this year. But we will have to find another moment to reflect on that in detail. However, I would like to say that I have had a number of special moments in this Chamber today, and I hope that they will also be true moments, which will lead to more connection, finding each other and treating each other with respect. Then three motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[concluding that our country is plagued by a large-scale housing crisis and that the huge housing shortage is holding many Dutch people with the lowest incomes in a situation where they are forced to live with others;]] [[Whereas such accommodation, whether forced or not, is penalised by the cost sharing standard and thus leads to situations where families are further pushed into poverty or young people become homeless and homeless;]] [[calls on the government to abolish the cost sharing standard, which, according to the missionary Minister Koolmees' assessment, costs EUR 0.4 billion, and to finance this proposal by lifting the expat scheme, which states that expats will have to pay 30% less tax in the first five years than the rest of the Netherlands and will cost us EUR 0.5 billion per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are currently 34,000 Surinam-Dutch elderly people living in poverty through an AOW-hole of 16% to 18%;]] [[whereas this AOW-hole was caused by the fact that, during colonial rule, residents of the Kingdom in Suriname were not recognised by law as residents of the Empire, but such recognition was an important condition for the fundamental rights of Dutch citizens, including the right to an AOW benefit;]] [[noting that we still maintain the colonial distinction between residents of the Kingdom in the Netherlands and the then Suriname colony in granting the right to AOW benefits to Surinamese Dutch;]] [[noting that the right to an AOW benefit of these Surinamese Dutch is therefore not yet recognised until they became a resident of the Kingdom in the Netherlands, and the subsequent AOW-hole is therefore a concrete example of how our colonial past lives through in a legal and institutional way in the present;]] [[believes that the restoration of colonial suffering and damage should also be translated into the fight against ways in which our colonial past lives on in the present;]] [[calls on the Government to reversely close the AOW-hole of this group of older people and, in line with the Incomplete Construction Report, to establish an AOW scheme for older people of Surinamese origin to include the years of residence in the then Surinamese part of the Kingdom in determining the level of their AOW benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-64]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u618	Then the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is one of the richest countries in the world, but around 2 million Dutch live around the poverty line and one in nine children grow up in poverty because the minimum wage has not risen sufficiently with inflation;]] [[Considering that the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC) indicates that, in order to address this inequality, the minimum income should be equal to at least 60% of the local median income, and that in the Netherlands this should be equal to €14 per hour in 2022;]] [[Considering that security of existence is one of the key values in a prosperous country, that it is undesirable that a large proportion of the population remain behind in this area for years to come, and it is therefore important to follow the urgency of the ETUC recommendation;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the minimum wage to €14 per hour by 1 January 2022 and to maintain the link with benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u619	Mr. Chairman. Because of the lack of time, I will confine myself to reading motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Minister De Jonge deceived young people by telling them that they would be free again if they took the Janssen vaccine, the so-called dance-with-Janssen campaign;]] [[noting that Minister De Jonge stated that this was the result of an opinion from the OMT, but that it now appears that the real reason was that a cooling was broken in Nieuwegein;]] [[noting that Minister De Jonge has again misinformed the House of Representatives;]] [[declares confidence in Minister De Jonge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Minister Schouten has fully taken part in a politically-created problem, namely the nitrogen crisis;]] [[noting that the Minister did not oppose plans to expropriate farmers or take away their licence;]] [[Considering that only halving livestock will have a very significant impact on the Dutch economy and would cost €3.5 billion per year plus tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs;]] [[rejects Minister Schouten's agricultural policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that our Constitution does not know the political party in the Chamber, but only MPs with a valid electoral mandate;]] [[noting that, according to the Constitution, a Member of Parliament must therefore adhere to his or her own political convictions (making choices without burden);]] [[noting that a single group has only one third of the budget of a single group;]] [[noting that such action here in the Chamber is punishable by less political budget and less speaking time;]] [[calls on the Bureau to examine speaking time and budget in relation to the number of votes and to inform the Chamber of the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-67]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-68]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u620	Do you want me to stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u621	Please continue. I shall then give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u622	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[decides to conduct a parliamentary survey on the Dutch government's approach to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the government's intention to introduce a coronapas;]] [[noting that vaccinees in this coronapas also keep a green check if they are infected with the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine the impact of this choice on the spread of the coronavirus and to refrain from introducing the corona pass until the completion of this investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that CO capture and storage costs a great deal of energy, including by capturing, compressing and injecting, as well as infrastructure;]] [[Considers that CCS produces higher CO emissions, very high costs and a very negative impact on the environment;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to stop CCS immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-70]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-71]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u623	And then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that more national direction is needed in order to achieve 1 million homes in the foreseeable future;]] [[Considering that a return from the Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment ensures that the responsible construction minister has a coordinating role;]] [[calls on the forming parties to ensure that a Ministry of VROM returns,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u624	We have now had a two-day debate with the cabinet and the Prime Minister has tried to answer all the questions as well and as angry as it was. Mr Van Haga has just tabled a motion of censure against the Minister for Health and I heard a motion of censure against the Minister for Health. I honestly think we shouldn't do that as a room. Then go next week or in two weeks if there is another corona debate the debate with the Minister of VWS. See him all the way through and if you are not satisfied with his answer, submit a motion of censure. But not now, now that you have not been able to question this minister and he has not been able to defend himself. You know, when we start to do this as a Chamber, we're going to be filing motions of distrust and disapproval against all kinds of cabinet members every week without having had a proper debate about it. I really appeal to Mr Van Haga. Hold those motions. Move them in. Do it at another time, but after you cross swords with those rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u625	Corona is a debacle of epic proportions and with the corona pass a new moral boundary has been crossed. This morning there was yet another lie. I do not want to bore you with the fact that I have probably already had a debate of 40, 50 with Mr De Jonge. The end is lost. The coronapas wouldn't be there, vaccination wouldn't be there, we'd go for group immunity first and the mouth cap duty wouldn't be there. There's 5.1 billion missing, 1 billion reserved for a test society that doesn't work and 40 million transferred to Sywert van Lienden, while he wasn't a preferred supplier. The festival industry is on its way. It's a total drama and at some point it's enough. And indeed, we have been here for two days. I've had seven-and-a-half minutes of airtime. Sent time, yes. That was my first-term speaking time. You probably had 30 minutes. We have been able to enjoy you incredibly, but my possibilities are limited. So if there's anything I can do, I will. And indeed, in the corona file, I can tell you that the size is now really full.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u626	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten and then to Mr Klaver and Mr Heerma. After that, you can respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u627	We know the views of the Van Haga Group in the Corona debate and Mr Van Haga is consistent in that. He said himself, "The end is lost." The end is really lost as far as I'm concerned if we... We have often found that in recent years, as a Chamber, we have really lost sight of the amount of debates, the amount of motions and so on. If we want to take ourselves as a Chamber seriously, and I believe that we want all 150, let us confine ourselves to the moments when such a motion of censure or censure really matters. That's what you do after you ask a ruler. I therefore appeal once again to Mr Van Haga: your point is clear, but do so at another time, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u628	Thank you. I would also like to give the floor to the others, and then I will give you the floor again. Mr Klaver and then Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u629	It is significant that Mr Van Haga is talking about transmission time. This is about speaking time. It's parliament, not television studio to make movies. I agree with Mr Jetten. I'm not gonna do it all over again, but I'll tell you. I am moving forward because I think it is important to leave this as far as I am concerned, not a question of coalition party versus opposition party. Mr Van Haga's views on the cabinet or its functioning: that is permitted. But submit like this? Please, let's take ourselves a little bit seriously as a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u630	Thank you. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u631	I hear Mr Van Haga saying that he does not hear a new request. It is not a new request, but it is a shared request. Yesterday in the debate, following questions from Mr Segers, it was already discussed that Mr Van Haga announced a motion of censure to the Minister of LNV, when he had never had a debate on this with her. Now we have a tirade on the corona debate, where there have been perhaps 40 debates on this subject, each with the possibility of tabling motions of this kind. If, at every random debate, we are going to table motions of censure and mistrust against directors who have perhaps been sitting there but have not spoken or were not even present, then we are not taking ourselves as a parliament seriously. Then we are in the process of doing injustice to our instruments and hollowing them out, instead of making them more powerful. Then all the stories about parliament as a lamb or lion are no longer relevant. My appeal to Mr Van Haga: really, do not do this, choose another moment; this is going to be a show that we are not really proud of in the long run for many instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u632	Thank you. Let me see if Mr Segers and Mrs Hermans agree with what has already been said. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u633	I fully agree with that. I also have the request to hold the motion of censure until Mr Van Haga has had the first debate with the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u634	Thank you. Mrs Hermans, do you agree with the words? Yes. Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u635	Yes, Mr Segers has, of course, made that point before. You know, for a small fraction... You're going to the debates you choose. I don't know how many debates there are every week. There's a lot of them. But it reminds me a little bit of the moment that Klaas Dijkhoff launched the attack on Thierry Baudet and said: he's never there. We looked into that and it turned out that Mr Baudet had done five times as many debates. It is nice that statistics are produced monthly. I do not remember the exact name of the index, but I am curious to see where Mr Segers stands. The fact that I am in all the EZK debates, where I have never seen you, I think speaks volumes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u636	Let's wrap it up. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u637	In business, or anywhere else, if you threaten a staff member with dismissal, such a person will at least have the opportunity to answer the allegations. It is extremely rude simply to say in a letter of resignation: you are fired; you're fired. It could make you president of America. Don't do it. Since I really don't agree, I withdraw my signature under the last motion. Not because I don't agree, but because I just really don't like this behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u638	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt for his contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u639	Mr. Chairman. At first glance it seems nice what is happening here, namely that there will be some kind of agreement between parties who have been finding it difficult to talk to each other for 185 days. That's a good thing. But there's something else that's bothering me. I asked for a vision of housing and an analysis of the problems. In recent years, we have seen that rapid measures at the very last minute, such as hundreds of millions of shifts in transfer taxes or extra money to isolate social housing, have not solved the crisis in housing. If we commit now that this is it for this year, we have another lost year. I thought I would have made a profit by first getting a vision, then getting the measures, then having an objective of how many houses we have to build or rebuild or perhaps doing something with cost-sharing standards and then taking them and then looking at how we can solve the problem. This problem is too difficult to think that if you solve a problem here politically between four or six parties, you solve the problems in the real world. That is a little disappointing to me, also because last year there was just 400 million more than estimated. Now it's reduced to 500 million. That's 100 million intensification; that's not much. Coverage I'm gonna say this with the Tax Plan. It's even weirder. I shall come back to the standard of living. Thank you for the committee and what it needs to investigate. I look forward to the extra promised information on the social contract and the answers on the surcharges. Mr. Chairman. My motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands uses many definitions of poverty interchangeably;]] [[noting that the figures give a distorted picture;]] [[calls on the government to use only the relative poverty definition, which all our neighbouring countries use, in all publications of the Dutch government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has promised a housing vision with goals for affordable new construction and a goal to resolve the housing shortage within a number of years;]] [[noting that the government has undertaken to take the measures in the targets as the ad hoc measures have not solved the problems in recent years;]] [[calls on the government to propose adequate measures in the budget in the housing vision so that it is expected to resolve the housing shortage within a reasonable period of time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-74]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u640	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion of which I shall read only the operative part. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[decide to give the Constitution an appropriate place in the Chamber building, in addition to its grounds, so that everyone is reminded of its value,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u641	The next item is the second term of office. This means that the Prime Minister is going to give his appreciation on behalf of the outgoing cabinet. I think there is also one question that has been asked. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u642	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the increase in healthcare salaries, I can say that we are indeed covering the non-contributory part from the high Vpb rate. We do not escape the premium increase in the system, but we compensate for that increase in the premium by increasing the general tax reduction. We do this to compensate the €13 per person per year. That's 120 million. You will see it again in Mrs Hermans' motion. The high Vpb rate is 25.8%. That at that point. Then there are a few outstanding questions. Mr Omtzigt asked about the state of play on some of the issues related to the childcare allowance affair. First of all, the parliamentary questions about laws that have been broken. On 12 March, the Secretary of State for Finance sent a letter on the laws which the Tax Administration did not comply with. This letter contains several examples in which the Tax Administration has not complied with the law. In addition, the Chamber was informed in this letter about the tax administration's approach to preventing laws being broken and, where that is the case, how this is being picked up and shared with the Chamber. In any event, the Court shall be informed of the state of play each year, and of course immediately if necessary. The first stage of implementation will be sent to the Chamber in November. Secondly, the investigation of the destroyed files. The Secretary of State for Finance periodically informs you about the state of play in the regular progress reports. The last state of affairs is that the files of the professional files which have been prematurely destroyed have been requested from the Council of State and courts through the Court of Justice. The requested files of the Council of State are now available. The files requested from the courts are still to follow. The independent investigation by PwC into the progress of the so-called memo-Palmen is in the final phase. The Secretary of State for Finance has previously stated that he intends to send this inquiry to the Chamber by 1 October at the latest. For now, it seems to be working. Then the improvement of the findability of the Panteia hotline for abuses. Panteia already tries to pick up the signals in different ways, for example through interest groups, client councils and social media. I understand from Mr Omtzigt that it is not yet easy for many people to find it. The Minister for Social Affairs will therefore talk to Panteia to ensure good fame and accessibility, including for MPs. Then there is the initiative legislative proposal to impose a ban on the prioritising of licence holders on municipalities. Municipalities are responsible for this. Whether or not a priority for status holders is that they are entitled to stay and reside in the Netherlands and that municipalities are responsible for it. That's really necessary. You can see now that the case is rolling up in the azc's. I have already stated in my first term that I am not in favour of that bill, I say on behalf of the government. Then I'll get to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u643	Before you start, there is another question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u644	We are still waiting for a full list of violations of the law. The violations of the law in the supplementing affair have still not been sent to the Chamber. According to these answers, the list was not yet complete; further consideration would be given. I would therefore urge that, in the regular progress report in October, we finally hear which laws have been systematically broken, not once, by the Tax Administration. That commitment was still open, so I hope to get it. Secondly, there would be an external investigation into why files were destroyed. This is different from the question of whether the case files can still be found on the judicial side. That is the case for a number of files, but those files should never have been thrown through the shredder. That's a violation of the Archive Act. That's what an investigation would be about. We have been waiting a year and a half for the outcome of this. So I hope to get that result from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u645	I'm out of ammo on these two points. So I'm redirecting that part to the Secretary of State, but I can't give any further information on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u646	Then we'll proceed to the appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u647	The motion in part No. 5 is about Chamber disbandment. This is, of course, a matter for the Chamber itself. It is not up to the cabinet to give an opinion on this. The motion in part No. 6 over 1 billion extra to care. Dissuade, no cover. The motion in part No. 7: Dissuade, no cover. The motion in part No. 8: Dissuade, no cover. The motion in part No. 9: Dissuade, no cover. The motion in part No. 10: idem, dissuade because no cover. Then the motion to part No. 11: Dissuade, for this leads to an unbalanced outcome between generations. The motion in part No. 12: Dissuade. We do not distinguish between Islamic and other countries. This is also contrary to our international obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u648	The Minister may advise against what he wants, but I explained the coverage when submitting the motions. You can't agree, but you can't say no cover. I have extensively reported on how I've covered them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u649	Okay, well, I'm dissuading the motions, because they're really fundamentally different from cabinet policy. The motion in part No. 13 of the VVD: Judgment of the Chamber. At the motion in part No. 14 of D66 would be my thoughts as follows. The cabinet had already promised to commemorate great and dignified in 2023. Following the report, the cabinet has raised a number of issues, namely the launch of a national historical survey, similar to a number of cities. The report also deserves careful consideration and response, in principle by a subsequent cabinet. Against that background, my suggestion would be to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u650	That's the motion asking for an apology for slavery history. As far as I am concerned, that was one of the nicer moments of this DPE, especially because of the personal input of my colleague Simons. I also appreciate the fact that, after tabling this motion, several political groups approached me with the observation that they would like to have this discussion in their group as extensive and as carefully as it was in this debate between the Prime Minister and the Chamber. That is why I would like to propose the following, Mr President. I'll hold this motion. Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66, Mrs Simons on behalf of BET1 and Mrs Van Dijk on behalf of the CDA will jointly take the initiative of a round table meeting in the Lower House with the Dialogue Group Slavers. Then we can hear them about that impressive report. Then everyone in their group can also discuss why these excuses for the past of slavery are important. Until then, I will hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u651	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u652	A fine initiative which Mr Jetten also outlined in that context; that round table. Then the motion to part No. 15: Judgment of the Chamber, with the technical reservation that this is an incidental re-use of criminal property and assets. The motion in part No. 16: Judgment Chamber, provided that a subsequent cabinet has room to judge the execution of this motion. Judgement Room, against that background. The motion in part No. 17: Judgment Room. We agree with the importance. The creation of a national historical museum can be an important symbol. We'd like to carry out the motion if it were passed. Of course, this whole issue has already brought with it the necessary dynamics in the past, so it is not without history, this history, but we all know that. The motion in part No. 18: no cover, so for that reason dissuade. The motion in part No. Nineteen I must advise against. A rent freeze has a major impact on the investment opportunities of corporations and other investors for, among other things, new construction. If the Chamber considers a financial concession necessary for housing corporations and other landlords to limit these negative effects, coverage is necessary. Moreover, the measure is unfocused and also benefits households who actually have too high a income from freezing their rents. It is possible to take targeted measures for tenants. This includes rent reductions that can be specifically targeted at lower income tenants or with payment risks. So it's not advisable. The motion in part No. 20: dissuade. I understand the wish, which is also in many election programs. This is something that must of course be looked at in conjunction with the whole of social security. It requires an integral consideration by a next cabinet, I think. There is also the problem that it is uncovered and not feasible by 2022, so I have to move in part no. 20 finally dissuaded. The Marijnissen/Segers motion in part No. 21 is about labour migration at European level. This is a permanent topic of discussion at European level. I'll continue that conversation, too. The resolution of obstacles to the freedom of movement of workers also concerns a number of issues relating to European law. Against that background, I'd like to discourage the motion. The Council of State states that the measures are most likely to be in line with the concrete abuses that are taking place. That is exactly what the Cabinet is doing with the implementation of the recommendations of the Chasing Team-Roemer. The motion in part No. Twenty-one, I'm guessing. The Marijnissen motion in part No. 22 on the abolition of the loan system, I would advise against. It's a big policy change. It is also really a subject that the Chamber itself has declared controversial. Of course, if a majority of the Chamber wants to modify or change the lending system, it is also important to realise that this is not something that DUO can do overnight. The exact date of implementation therefore depends on the proposal, but also on the combination of other tasks for DUO. The motion in part No. 23 of the Labour Party, I would advise against. The cabinet wants to use the Vpb rate for raising salaries in healthcare. So the cover of the motion is already deployed for something else. The motion in part No. 24 of the Labour Party, I would advise against. Budgetary matters are far-reaching, and that's why it's really something for a next cabinet. Of course, the issue of coverage is also at issue here and the question of a further increase in the burden on business. The Klever/Plaumen motion in part No. Twenty-five, I'd advise against it. Basic choices on a more far-reaching climate policy, i.e. choices that go beyond the more than 6.8 billion or nearly 7 billion that we are making for them, are, as far as we are concerned, up to a next cabinet. Climate demands a long-term policy, and we do not think that this is related to the declaration of a state of emergency. We also discussed this in the debate. Against that background, I would like the motion in part No. 25 dissuade. The Klever/Plaumen motion in part No. 26 is about an integral plan for the shortage of teachers. The Van Vroonhoven plan is implementing the cabinet. Many actions have already been taken to combat the shortage of teachers. There are three lines: an increase in the side influx, the preservation of teachers and the otherwise organization of education. There is no single measure to address staff shortages. That is why the cabinet, together with the educational cities, is working on a package of measures. This motion also raises a question of coverage, which is not sufficiently concrete. Against that background, I need the motion in part number. 26 and thus dissuade them. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. Twenty-seven on the new stockhouses, I'm gonna have to dissuade them. A reduction in the deposition on nature requires buying out peak loaders and sustainable stables in places where that is possible. Rebuilding of stables can contribute to this. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u653	Before you continue, Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u654	I would then like to ask whether the Prime Minister can at least confirm that it is foreseeable, that there is a good chance that measures will be followed for livestock farming, including possibly something with permits or with buy-backs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u655	The Minister for Agriculture will come back to the whole nitrogen dossier anyway. I'm not exactly ready for that right now, but we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u656	Could you then perhaps answer this question at the end of this reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u657	No, I can't right now. This is the second term. Unless the Minister of Agriculture writes something down quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u658	The question is whether it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u659	There's still a lot of information coming to the Chamber about nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u660	There's gonna be more detailed information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u661	Then we'll get this involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u662	There's gonna be a lot of stuff coming to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u663	Yes. We'll take your question with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u664	And when do we get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u665	For consideration of the budget for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u666	But it will not take place until the end of November. I'd say a note in two weeks. If so, a written question will come to the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u667	Don't do that here, a written question, because I don't have the information here to answer it properly. Then I'm gonna skate here. The motion-Old Hand c.s. in piece No. 28 is a speech-exmotion and concerns a question to the Chamber. The motion-Ouwehand/Simons in part No. Twenty-nine, I don't recommend it. Sustainable biomass is a temporary solution for an energy source that is currently not alternatives and should remain possible to allow the transition to be feasible and affordable. The motion in part No. 30, excluding CCS with reference to the debate, I really don't recommend it. The motion in part No. 31 I must advise against, because by selecting the reduction options effectively with SDE++, the transition for the Netherlands remains feasible again. I propose the motion in part No. - Thirty-two. - Thirty-two. There will be a letter from the Minister of Finance on this point. On this basis, a discussion may take place during the examination of the tax plan's budget. I therefore propose to Mrs Ouwehand that the motion be put to the vote. 32 or I'll have to dissuade her. That leaves room, too. There will be a letter from the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u668	I shall look at Mrs Ouwehand to see if she wishes to take this motion. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u669	Yes, we'll hold the motion until the letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u670	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (35925, No. 32), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u671	The motion in part No. 33 is a speech-expression. The motion in part No. 34 I'd like to give judgment Chamber. I can give you a whole story, but "judge chamber" is the summary for short. Then there is the consultation with VNG on migrant workers. VWS is talking about this together with SZW, JenV and the G4. A plan of action can indeed be sent to the Chamber by the end of the year. We are also looking at the EU legal frameworks. Against that background, Chamber for the motion in part No. 35. The motion in part No. 36 of Mr Baudet I must advise against referring to what we discussed in the last Corona debate. The motion in part No. 37: dissuade. The cabinet has no other plan for using QR codes for targets as mentioned by the petitioner. The motion in part No. 38: dissuade. Unfortunately, the virus doesn't stick to data, so we can't record a hard end date either. The motion in part No. 39: dissuade. The cabinet's policy of corona is to protect the vulnerable and prevent the burden of care ultimately being overburdened and access to care is restricted. That is the objective. It has already been discussed on several occasions by the cabinet, including in various debates with the Chamber, for example the pressure on care, and the ic-beds. I can say to Mr Baudet that the cabinet wants to keep the measures as short as possible, but as long as necessary. Fortunately, from next Saturday, the day after tomorrow, we can give society a little further space. The motion in part No. 40 Speaks and therefore does not need to be judged by me. I understand Mr Dassen's intention for the motion in part No. 41. A final decision is up to the next cabinet, which will then have the room to choose which additional reforms and investments will be put in place. We did start the preparation, I can tell him. As promised, the Chamber will be informed about the trial in October. Against that background, I would like the motion in part No. 41 dissuade. We share the urgency. The motion in part No. 42 is a speech-exmotion. The motion in part No. 43 on Danish asylum policy, because Denmark differs in many respects from the European Union average due to an opt-out. The Danish system has also been investigated more often. It seemed good to me to have the motion in part no. Forty-three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u672	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u673	There are many ways to discourage things, but this is exactly the question we have asked. Is it the opt-out? No, it's not that. Without opt-out, you can also make these choices. However, I would like to ask you to take that into account. At least, the motion also asks you to explain why things can't be done. You say, "I can state with justification that things cannot be done because of the lack."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u674	Then do it like this. Everyone is gradually so overburdened and that is another whole study. Is it not possible for you to table this motion with the JenV budget? Then my colleagues can take a look at it and perhaps they will be able to give that answer in the debate. That saves a whole study, the release of officials and the setting up of a committee. It may be a practical solution to submit it to the JenV budget. I'll make sure this motion is known there. Then they're gonna prepare that and they're gonna be able to answer it orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u675	Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u676	But then he's basically just being executed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u677	He's being executed. And then he's also dissuaded, because it's unnecessary. No, that's lame. It is then "judge chamber" with that manner of execution. No reports, but an answer during the JenV budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u678	Will the motion be held?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u679	No, no, then it's judgment room. Smart. The motion in part No. 44: dissuade. The cabinet uses means of pressure where this can contribute to return in specific cases. But those specific circumstances are different from one case to another, and in some cases they could do more harm than good. Unfortunately, I'd really like to discourage that motion. The motion in part No. Forty-five, I'd like to give the judgment room. This is also involved in the scenario studies announced. So, judge Room. I would like to ask for the motion in part No. Forty-six to be held. Why? Because it has already been promised that there will be a letter about the lifespan of Borssele. I would like to suggest to Mr Eerdmans that we hold the motion until that letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u680	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u681	At the request of Mr Eerdmans, I propose his motion (35925, No. 46). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u682	The motion in part No. Forty-seven, I'd like to dissuade you. The position ofzzp'ers is an integral part of the reform of the labour market of the Borstlap Commission. That seems to me to be something for the formation table of a next cabinet. The motion in part No. 48 is a speech-expression. The motion in part No. Forty-nine, as far as I'm concerned, gets judgment Chamber. The government is invited to carry out a further analysis of the impact of these proposals on households, SMEs and public expenditure, etc. In substance, I support the motion, but I would like to interpret it in such a way that the Secretary of State for Climate and Energy contacts the planning agencies about what is now possible. This analysis depends, I understand, on the national implementation of the "Fit for 55" package. As soon as there is an analysis of the package by the Planning Office for the Environment, the Secretary of State will examine with the planning agencies what is possible. She'll inform you about that. Against that background, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u683	Mr Van der Staaij nods, so he agrees with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u684	Then the motion to part No. 50. With reference to the explanatory statement in the debate on the additional efforts against undermining crime, including against juvenile crime, for prevention and neighbourhood approaches, plus the extra funds for the police in the Hermans motion, I would like to advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 51 I would advise against, because there has just been a whole evaluation. On the motion in part No. 52 the following: perhaps Mr Azarkan can hold the motion for a while, because we are now in the starting phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u685	I'm looking at Mr. Azarkan, but he's just walking away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u686	Mr. Azarkan, don't run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u687	He's just around the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u688	The motion in part No. We'll do 52 like this. The motion in part No. 53: dissuade. This is not possible in relation to State aid. The motion in part No. 54 is a speech-expression. The motion in part No. 55 asks the government to explore whether and how a state committee can make recommendations. I'll put "state" or by the way; it'll be a committee. We think that a state committee is very difficult. If that's possible, but with an ordinary commission, judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 56 on a national programme Living elderly: judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 57, in which the government is asked to bring forward the 10 x 100 million: please hold. There's gonna be a letter with the effect of this. I would ask Mrs Den Haan to hold this motion. Is she still in the house?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u689	Sure, I like her. Would you like to continue the motion, Mrs. Den Haan? I can see that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u690	Then the motion to part No. 58. In that, Mrs van der Plas claims that the Demissionary Cabinet would have ever mentioned halving of livestock as an option. It just isn't. What it says is bullshit. So I must strongly discourage that motion, because that has never been an option. I would like to request that the motion be put to the vote on item No. 59 to be retained. I'll give you a letter from the Minister. What's the problem here? I understand her point that the current way of naming how people are trained at different levels may also seem demotivating, but what it proposes is not so convenient. In the MBO there are also theoretically trained people and in the HBO there are also practically trained people. Think of the physician assistants. Scientific education is all very theoretical, except, of course, for the doctors. It's very practical. So I don't think this terminology is very good. I get her point. So my request is to hold. Then there's a letter from the minister of OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u691	I'll take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas, see if she's got the motion in part no. 59 wants to arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u692	I find that a difficult consideration. I just want us to step away from "low- and high-educated." That is the purpose of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u693	Yes, but you also write in very detail how to call them, namely 'practically trained', but that is not true for the MBO. Some of them are also theoretically trained. "Theoretically trained" is not right for the HBO, because some of them, for example the physician assistants, are practically trained. "scientifically trained" is fine, but the other two don't add up. That is why, in the spirit of the motion, because I feel like you that the current terms can be demotivating, I wanted to ask the Ministry of Education how you can deal with this more practically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u694	I would like to keep her, provided that we all make a promise here that in the meantime we will no longer talk about "low-educated" or "high-educated," including in the communication of the government and, for example, the cabinet. Then I'll hold the motion for the time being. It doesn't just bother me. A lot of people really find it very derogatory when you're placed as a low-educated person while you're a real professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u695	Exactly. I totally get it, but I can't make a commitment that the whole government's gonna turn the whole communication around right now. My proposal has been kept. There's a letter coming from the minister of OCW. Directionally, we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u696	If the intention is there, I can live with it. The broad communication in one's own ministries is just sending an e-mail to all that we just don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u697	That doesn't mean it's gonna happen, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u698	I'm asking for an intention. We don't have to take it very hard when we can or can't do it. We can send you an e-mail. With "search and replace" you can restore all the words as needed. If the intention is there, I'll hold the motion for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u699	Thank you. There's an intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u700	I have just been in contact with the DENK Group on the motion on item No. 52. Could you give me the motivation to ask her to hold?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u701	Yes. I'll take a look at Mrs. Ollongren, too. We were just having a little discussion about it. Then we actually came to the judgment dissuade, but I thought: you can also say "stop," because we are now starting with the National Coordinator. We're in the starting phase. There is no need for a higher budget now. Let's give it a chance to take the case off the ground. Then we can look again later to see if more money is needed. Against that background, my proposal was maintained, because it is really not necessary at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u702	When can we get more information?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u703	It's gonna take a while. He or she needs to get to work and get the legs under the desk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u704	Let me take a look at the group of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u705	The motion in part No. 60, I'm not sure. It's really too comprehensive. I understand the underlying motives, but the motion does not do justice to the very complex historical situation. The motion in part No. 61, I'd like to dissuade you. We could also say 'hold on', but of course it is not covered now, so it is not recommended. You could continue the motion until the introduction of the National Isolation Program. That would be up to Mrs van der Plas, but for the time being I must say that I do not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u706	I would like to look at Mrs Van der Plas or the motion on part No. 61 may be detained. The motion in part No. 61, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u707	Yeah, about the isolation program.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u708	Would you like to hold that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u709	Until the program arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u710	Sorry. I'm multifunctional, but there were just two people, with all the good intentions anyway, talking to me, so I didn't follow the motivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u711	In the motion in part No. 61 is called for a national isolation programme. That motion isn't covered, so I'm supposed to dissuade her. But I thought you could keep her until the implementation of the National Isolation Programme begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u712	I'll keep it on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u713	At the request of Mrs van der Plas, I propose the motion for a resolution on item No. 61 to be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u714	Can I make a suggestion on that motion after all? I think it is a very sympathetic proposal from Mrs Van der Plas. I think it was Mr Segers, but perhaps someone else was the first petitioner. I think it was Heerma, Segers and Marijnissen who asked to give the national isolation program more hands and feet. I would actually ask the cabinet to take this motion from Mrs van der Plas into account, because that other motion has been given a Chamber of Justice. I would say: wipe it up a lot and come up with good proposals for faster isolation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u715	Yeah, we were just hannesing with it, too. I understand what Jetten is saying, but this motion is much more specific: asks the outgoing cabinet to... open up to the do-it-yourselfer, so that do-it-yourself citizens can save costs to... Yeah, she is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u716	In the spirit of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u717	Well, well, in the spirit of it. Who does that program with us? That's Mrs. Ollongren. That's kind of nice. What do you think? Okay, then let's say the motion gets involved in the elaboration. Then the judgment is Chamber, but then it is performed in the spirit, in the light, of the elaboration. The motion in part No. 61 is therefore not being detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u718	Thank you and thank you to Mr Jetten for the support. We collide sometimes, but sometimes we get along very well. Sorry, returning to the low- and high-educated, I'd like to know when the letter is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u719	I don't know. I can't check it now, but it's gonna take some time, because I think we should take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u720	But by the end of the year, I hope?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u721	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u722	Time's moving fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u723	That's what I'm gonna promise here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u724	Thank you. The motion in part No. 61 is therefore not detained, but is judged by Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u725	The motion in part No. 62 on the ammonia and livestock regime: dissuade. Appropriate nitrogen policy requires rules on the management of livestock farmers and the Rav list is needed. Sorry, not using it is too restrictive for adequate nitrogen policy, so we can't. The motion in part No. 63: dissuade. No cover. In addition, a separate rate is also impossible. The motion in part No. 64: dissuade. I also refer to the debate. We have, of course, also discussed this in detail. I think it's up to another cabinet. In any case, that motion will not be enforceable by 2022. Then the motion to part No. 65. I'd like to request that they be retained. Advice, or information, has been requested from the Council of State. I would therefore ask that this motion be retained until after the Council of State has been informed. The wording of the observations and opinions does not fit in with the finding that there is no legal obligation to compensate. That does not alter the fact that we are actively working on this subject, in search of an appropriate solution. It would therefore be my request to Mrs Simons to... Is she still in the house? Then we'll wait. Ah, now it's getting confusing. She's here. Would you make the motion in part no. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u726	Mrs Simons, BET1. It's about whether you're making the motion in part no. 65 wants to arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u727	I'm sorry I haven't quite heard the motivation about the "why" of holding on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u728	There will be information from the Council of State. That's what we've been asked for. Wouter Koolmees even had an article 24 consultation. He's told you that three times, and I know what it means now, but then there's a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u729	I'd like to hold the motion. Is the letter coming at a somewhat acceptable time? I hear it's tomorrow or Monday. Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u730	Yeah? The motion in part No. 65 is under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u731	Yeah, that's with the information request. Then you will see what information we ask the Council of State on the subject of AOW and Suriname. But of course the Council of State has its own rhythm. Then the motion to part No. 66. Raise the minimum wage to €14. This requires an integral consideration. I think this is a good idea for a next cabinet. The motion in part No. 67 there is no need to provide advice. The same applies to the motion in part No. 68 and that also applies to the motion in part No. 69. The same applies to the motion in part No. 70. The motion in part No. 71: dissuade. We're entering the CTB. There has been a wide-ranging debate on this. The motion in part No. 71 is therefore not recommended. The motion in part No. 72 is also not recommended. We also talked today about CCS. The motion in part No. 73: dissuade. That's really up to another cabinet. The motion in part No. 74: dissuade. There are advantages and disadvantages to the different definitions. Both of them, of course, provide useful insights and we find categorically excluding a definition to be undesirable. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 74. The same applies to the motion in part No. 75. I refer to the debate we have had. The motion in part No. 76 does not ask for a ruling from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u732	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Van der Plas. I call Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u733	I don't have a question. The motion on, to my mind, document No. 60 on the Indian issue, I would like to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u734	Mrs van der Plas therefore wants the motion in part No. Hold 60.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u735	Then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u736	Apologies, but I'm going all the way back to the motion on part number one. 29 by Mr Ouwehand on the SDE++ grant box. I think that pot is reserved for CCS and heat. It is said here: we are not going to burn woody biomass from that. But that's not what it's meant for at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u737	Honestly, I thought I did. There are currently insufficient alternatives for renewable biomass as a temporary solution and as a source of energy. According to my information, they are covered by that SDE++ pot. If that is not the case, then the motion in part No. Twenty-nine minutes to be stopped. We'll come in with a note to the Chamber about who's right. But Mr Segers is now looking so closely that he is probably right. I just don't know right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u738	I agree that you can't completely rule it out, but of these 3 billion, it's out of the question. But maybe there's some clarity about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u739	You're saying it's actually out of the question. Let's ask EZK for a note to see who's right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u740	Is Mrs. Ouwehand prepared to hold the motion? There's gonna be a letter from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u741	To see if it's actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u742	Sure. As long as we rule it out, because then I'm happy. But if you can do that in a note, I could have the motion withdrawn, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u743	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (35925, No. 29). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u744	I for a moment missed the reasoning behind the judgment on the motions on the items Nos. 74 and 75.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u745	Let's see. On the motion in part No. 74 I have said that there are advantages and disadvantages to the different definitions. We don't want to categorically rule out a definition. In the debate, we discussed in detail the content of the motion for a resolution on item No. 75. There will be an overview of the measures and matters we are working on by the Minister for the Interior. But this motion calls for an integrated housing vision, which goes far beyond what I promised in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u746	That just disappoints me. A large part of my contribution was about the motion in part No. 74. Poverty in the Netherlands is increasing. That's what you see when you look at the food banks and the doubling of homelessness. I've explained why that definition is there. I do not get an answer to my question about the definition and when I say "use this definition," it is said: well, there are advantages and disadvantages to it. That definition happens to be the definition used by all our neighbouring countries, Belgium, Germany, France, Italy and Denmark. It is not a strange definition at all and, yes, I cannot enter into the debate. Two. I thought I saw the willingness to come up with a living vision with measures. If it is limited to the one measure that has now been tapped out here, then this is the third year in which we are quick to take a measure. As a result, we will have an even bigger housing crisis next year. I would be extremely disappointed if the cabinet did not see the need for this and neither did the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u747	The first point. Perhaps the most practical solution is to put the motion in the hands of the committee that is going to look into this and that Mr Omtzig is going to take this into account with which he would help. After all, he would take part in the drafting of the mandate to the committee. As we now read the emotion, he categorically excludes one definition, which we do not think is sensible. But that is perhaps soluble by giving it to the committee as well. Mr Omtzigt's second point was about the vision. Neither one of them is true. We have not committed ourselves to a comprehensive vision, nor have we said that we are going to explain one measure. What we have said is that Mrs Ollongren will list the different notions and thoughts that live in the Ministry of the Interior to bring this whole dossier forward. That is indeed more than one measure to explain, but I also said in the debate that we are not going to develop an integrated housing vision just before the BZK budget. That's really in line with my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u748	Thank you. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u749	Well, Mr. Chairman. This is the international definition of poverty. If the government deviates from that and uses a different definition in every publication, then we have nothing but fog here. So I'd just like to ask you to use it and to do the research by this definition. Because if you don't know what definition you have to work on the research, then you can choose twenty different outcomes, and then I know which one is chosen. My motion to part No. Seventy-five I'm holding. It doesn't have to be called "living vision," but I thought we'd all set goals first and then see how we could achieve them. We haven't done that in a few years and it just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u750	This really goes far beyond the commitment in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u751	Then the word "vision" may come out, because I know there is a certain allergy to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u752	No, no. I made a clumsy remark about that once. I have no objection to the word "vision." No, it's not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u753	Yeah, I'm sorry, you do. In 2013 I said that and now I've been dragging that one remark with me for eight years. I'm gonna talk about it longer if we have more time for that. But that's not where the problem is. It is in the fact that you now interpret the commitment so widely. So I thought... anyway, you can still put the motion to the vote and in any case we are going to implement the promise that the Minister of the Interior will put together all the different views and insights at BZK regarding the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u754	I assumed it wasn't about opinions, but about measures that would solve the housing crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u755	Yes, all of that must be done, but once again, the commitment was now to set out the existing knowledge that we have in the short term in the light of the BZK budget. Mr President, may I just make one final comment, because these General Political Reviews were, of course, very special at a new location, but also for another reason. Because in 2012 and 2017, when I was in this position, there was no General Political Discussion in the year in which there was also a formation going on. It is now considerably longer. The pile of motions is also thicker, and my first term lasted until ten o'clock tonight. So this is really a very special General Political Discussion, not only for that reason, but also because there is a combination of the missionary status of the cabinet, indeed the formation, but also the search for agreement between the political groups and the cabinet on budgetary adjustment. Finally, after thanking you, Mr President, on behalf of the whole government and the cabinet, of course, for the Presidency and all the services of the Chamber for the excellent care we have enjoyed today...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u756	... would like to recall the image of the Good Shepherd in the Old Testament story of David and Goliath. Indeed, Mr Van der Staaij, this is also reflected in the Act of Abandonment of 1581, as you undoubtedly know. This abhorrence by the States-General of the Spanish king... Painful: in Spanish history you won't find anything of that anymore, but well, we are still working on it a lot. This waiver by the States-General of the Spanish king, who forsaken his shepherdly duties, was two centuries later part of the cradle, as we all know, of the American Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. When someone there asked the learned politician Benjamin Franklin, who had visited the Netherlands before, what form of state had elected the constitutional assembly, he replied: "A republic, if you can keep it." These words provide a lasting incentive for citizens and representatives of the people to maintain and operate their constitutional system, and I think that is equally true for parliamentary democracy in our country. You know, we're a republic where one family always delivers the president. Our history has shown that we, members of the States-General and members of the Cabinet, are able, by common agreement and with mutual respect for everyone's position and interests, to reach decisions that can be supported in society and that can be linked to individual life stories. Because that too was a theme in these General Political Reviews: a lot of personal stories and personal experiences. I think it is our task and our task to continue to work together on this, and you can count on the full commitment of this cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u757	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u758	This brings us to the end of the debate on the General Political Reviews. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the special two days, the directors in trade union K, and, of course, in particular the Prime Minister, the officials, the messengers and the clerks, the viewers and the visitors. We're gonna vote tonight. I propose that we suspend for 20 minutes so that the voting list can be made and then we shall vote.
