ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law of member Nijboer on the amendment of Book 7 of the Civil Code and the Implementing Law on rental prices for housing, Room 35488. I would, of course, like to welcome the initiator, Mr Nijboer. He is supported in Box K by two members of the PvdA group, Mr Ravensbergen and Mr Gouvernante. You are also welcome. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Last week the first term of office took place. Today we are discussing first-term and second-term responses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer as initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall first explain how I had a little thought to answer your Chamber's questions. Mrs. Beckerman already says "blocks." I avoided the word, but that's how it works best, I guess. First of all, an introduction to the law. In addition, I wanted to walk through the great fundamental questions, which are actually asked from left to right in the Chamber about how to position the law in all the things that are needed to empty the housing shortage in the Netherlands. Then I would like to comment on the second point of criticism that has been raised in the Chamber, namely what it means for investments in affordable housing and new investments in middle-rental housing. Then I would like to go into the details, the rent plus inflation, of the proposal, the role of the Rent Committee, the evaluation, the deadline of the law and the investments in sustainability. I believe that I have had the points raised by the Chamber from various points of view. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I go into the background and the introduction of the law. A year or two ago I got more and more e-mails from people who said they had signed a lease and in September or October received a letter from their wrongdoer stating that the rent would go up by €50, €100, €150 and sometimes €200 or more in the month. They were wondering whether this could be done in the Netherlands and whether it could be done. The answer to that was: yes, you can. The rent protection in the free sector is completely absent. That means that as a tenant right now, when you hit a bad landlord, you can't go anywhere. You can either pay €100 or €200 more in the month, or look for something else, but that property is not there and then you pay much more. Then you're all stuck. Especially when that year happens year after year, there is simply a miscarriage, and there is an abuse of the housing shortage that exists in the Netherlands. That gave me the idea of first tabling a motion to examine whether this could be done, and then submitting this legislative initiative proposal to your Chamber, in order to limit that behavior. How many people are affected by this? Of course, that's always hard to estimate. There are over 3 million rental homes in the Netherlands and this law applies to all those homes, but corporations are not going to make any towering rent increases. There are also a lot of private landlords who make neat rent increases. But last year it was estimated that 87,000 people were affected. Mr Kops also mentioned this in his speech. That's pretty big. And that limits this law. Then there is the key question, Mr President, which also presents the Council of State, and which has actually been introduced from different perspectives: does this solve all the problems in the housing market? Of course it isn't. So if you ask me, much more needs to be invested in affordable rentals, the landlord levy should be abolished, investment in shrinking areas and in the viability of areas, much more needs to be built for middle income, including by corporations, and starting rents should be regulated. I agree with GroenLinks and, by the way, with the SP that we need to go through the points system and that this would be even more serious. That is also a very fundamental review. People who violate the housing valuation system should also be fined. We need to introduce a slugger's fine. Investors need to be taxed more and we need to introduce a Prince Bernhard tax. So much more needs to be done; of course this law does not solve all these problems of the shortage of hundreds of thousands of homes in the Netherlands and of affordability for tenants. But it solves some of the excessive rent increases, and it's also a fundamental adjustment to rent protection in the Netherlands that you're now protecting that entire rental sector from exorbitant rent increases. That's the value of this law. The second value of this law is that access to the Rent Commission will also be available to the free sector. That is also a fundamental change in the law. Mr. Chairman. This was the broader perspective, and also the answer to the question of different parties how to place this law within the situation of housing shortage that is currently taking place in the Netherlands. Then I come to the main criticism that more comes from the VVD, the CDA and the SGP. Mr Bishop has, by the way, duly signed off on my chair. He had other obligations. But I am also trying to convince him through this answer of the usefulness of this law. The main criticism of that party, and certainly of Mr Bishop, was that he was wondering whether the regulation of rents by the use of inflation plus 1% might slow down investment too much. We just need extra homes, and you need investors for that, too. If they don't do that too little, that's his question. I would like to give three great answers to that. Because considering everything, I'm not so afraid of that. The first is that, of course, we protect all existing leases with this. All existing tenants, over 3 million in the Netherlands, are now protected against excessive rent increases. Of course, more needs to be built up. But even if you embraced the ambitious goal of the cabinet the law for the next three years, you could build 300,000 homes: 100,000 a year, half of which consists of residential properties and the other half of which are rented houses, 50,000, of which at least half is built by corporations. Three million additional homes are being built, but you could only put a brake on a relatively limited proportion of them. In those sizes, I think you should see that. The second argument I have is that both housing corporations and investors say that inflation plus 1% is good for us. Of course, you can always say: shouldn't it have been inflation or inflation plus 1.5%? Landlords at the Chamber of Commerce have also received all of this first proposed to do inflation plus 1.5%. But in the busiest populated housing market areas in the Netherlands, Utrecht and Amsterdam, large institutional landlords have made agreements to increase rents no more than with inflation plus 1%. This is not a starting point that is taken from the sky, nor is it a starting point that is not workable for large investors. We know about housing corporations, of course. That's where we regulate it ourselves. It's workable for that, too. So for by far the bulk of the new building of houses you can't say: there is a huge brake on that. Because the investors themselves say that they can handle this well. For the third argument, I would also like to look a little across the border. Look at what's happening in Germany. Germany isn't a country that makes people look crazy about this. In Berlin, for example, rents are currently significantly reduced, by tens of percent, because of their affordability. I have seen practical examples of this. And look at what people in the Netherlands have lost to rent: 40% of the income in the free sector. That goes for two fifths of people. In one fifth of people, more than 50% of net income goes to housing costs. Then there is reason to intervene. This is common practice in Austria. Each country has its own system. In France this is also the use. In Belgium the weather is different. But in the Netherlands it is actually totally unregulated. There is much to be said for doing something about this, because it is not the case that there is no investor in other countries. That is what I would like to say in response to the concerns. I understand that, by the way, because we need investment. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be briefed. Where does inflation plus 1% come from? I just said something about that. The Minister had initially planned to do inflation plus 2.5%, but then you'd still come up with rent increases above 5%. That would have been the last year. If you rent for €1,000 in the free sector, that is €1,050 and the following year more than €1,100. If you have that a few years in a row, you will be at €1,200 to €1,300. I just think that's way too much. And there's no need. The investors themselves say: inflation plus 2.5% is almost too much for us! They have proposed inflation plus 1.5%. I'm a little sharper. You will understand that from my party political background. I see that they make agreements in Amsterdam and Utrecht about inflation plus 1%, and I think that is reasonable. In the balance between not all investors drive away and ensuring that tenants are properly protected against excessive rent increases, we have come up with that proposal. That's what the Minister has embraced. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about the Rent Committee. Mr Koerhuis had justified questions about this in his own right. He asked, "Can the Rent Commission handle it?" I share that concern. By the way, there are concerns about the waiting lists at the Rent Committee and the way things run during corona. Corona hits everyone, so every organization has to relate to that. But we are all very concerned about how things are going there. And here's another one! I asked the Ministry of the Interior in the preparation of this law if this is possible and if it is possible for the Rent Committee to do this properly. The answer was yes, and I would ask the Minister to do the same in a moment. Of course, it's necessary. If you regulate and regulate rent increases, people have to be able to go somewhere if the law is broken. Whether you agree with the law or not, he will have to be enforced. The Rent Commission is in itself capable of doing so, both in the social rental and in the private rental. Then you might as well raise the question. I also have a view of whether or not you should be fined if you break that law. I would be in favour of that, but that is not regulated by this law. It's more of a question of how you deal with the Rent Commission and how you deal with house milkers. For example, should there be a house slugger's fine? These are all legitimate questions, but these matters are not regulated by this law. I would be very much in favour of that initiative. Mrs Van Eijs has asked questions about the renovation and how it is being arranged. We had first proposed that the Minister should include this in general measure of governance. We have included in the letter of amendment that if you are really renovating or making substantial improvements to the house, you can think of a new kitchen or bathroom.You can increase the rent more than inflation plus 1% if you argue and do that reasonably. We are part of the system as it is already in the social housing sector. That's a working system. You can do that now. This requires the consent of the tenant. Mr Koerhuis asked how that would work in practice. I can see him nodding in agreement. With this law, we wanted to join existing situations as much as possible with the existing argument of when something is covered by housing improvement or sustainability and what is a reasonable price. A system has been developed for this and the Rent Committee can also make a ruling on this, in case you do not agree with it. We'll take over that system completely. In this way it will also be easier for the Rent Committee to assess these situations too, because it includes exactly the same system. This also applies to Mr Koerhuis, who is already in favour of his agreement. It is now needed and for larger projects you need 70% majority. That's exactly the same thing in this law. We didn't want to change anything about that with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u4	It contained the answer to two of my questions. In the answer to my first I hear a lot of woolly language like "we take over the existing practice." My question was very specific: can a rent increase always be made in the case of sustainability and doesn't there apply a peripheral condition such as residential cost neutrality? Or is it what the landlord wants, if it's up to Mr Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u5	No, the tenant's consent is required, or 70% of the tenants in the event of a larger renovation. So it's not always allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u6	I hear you say 70%. We know the discussion about the municipality of Utrecht; we have had a whole discussion about this here in the Chamber. That city wanted to force tenants to get rid of the cooking gas with periodic penalty payments. We have adopted a motion that should not happen again. Now I hear you say 70%. So if 70% of a district wants to get rid of the cooking gas, you say it's okay to impose a penalty on the remaining 30% of that district.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u7	No, and this law doesn't see that at all. This law sees the regulation of rent increase. That's what the law says. It may be inflation plus 1% at the most. Then it may be that a landlord invests in the improvement of the property. This is subject to conditions such as those currently applicable to the social rental sector and which work very reasonably. You can have a discussion about what the right distribution is. Mrs Beckerman welcomes this, but a whole practice has been developed, which, in my opinion, is a reasonable practice. You can still dive into it if you want to shape it with a natural gas-free district or otherwise, but I think that is a different debate than Mr Koerhuis is trying to drag it in. That is his right, but these matters are not regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u8	Finally, Mr Koerhuis, on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u9	Well, it has everything to do with that law. Mr Nijboer says in his law: if 70% is agreed, he has 30% to check. That 30% can just get a rent increase and a penalty. That goes a little far or not, is my question to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u10	No, it's just a rent protection. This 30% has the protection that rents do not increase more than inflation plus 1%. That is the starting point. If nothing changes, it just does. In principle, investment in sustainability requires the consent of the tenant, as is necessary in the case of existing sustainability or housing improvement. There are exceptions in complexes, if you do everything in one complex, namely that you have to do so with 70% consent, as is sometimes the case with vve's. If the roof is leaking, you'll have to intervene in the long run, even if one of the neighbors doesn't want to. Sometimes people live in the same apartment. Then you need the mechanism of participation. That has nothing to do with coercion, but with the practical aspect. Sometimes there's only one roof on a flat, and then you have to have decision-making. There's no way one tenant's gonna stop the whole apartment. Mr Koerhuis is right about that. I think that makes a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Koerhuis, you want to explain something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u12	The monkey came out of the sleeve in the last sentence. Mr. Nijboer talks about one tenant, but in Utrecht it was about an entire neighborhood. I find 30% of a neighborhood a lot of people. When I hear Mr Nijboer like that, they fall under the exception of the law. The landlord may, regardless of everything and everyone, decouple and charge the rent increase, and the municipality may impose periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u13	No, Mr Koerhuis misunderstood that. In principle, it is the individual tenant who has to give permission, except for apartment buildings, things that are obviously common.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked, by Mrs Van Eijs and others, about the three-year deadline and about the evaluation. I don't want to beat around the bush. As far as I'm concerned, it could have been permanent. I want permanent protection against rent increases. That is a difficult task for European law, and I would like to say that we are going to have elections. For those fundamental points that I pointed out, how do you deal with initial hiring, you go through the points system, how do you deal with rent protection in the years to come?Other choices can be made. If the points system is extended to €1,500, you don't need rent protection in this way. If that choice is made it will take a while before it is introduced, we take three years for it you have arranged the protection in a different way. I would be in favour of that. I do think you should review this law after two and a half years. Why? Because then you can see if the law has worked and done what it has to do and whether you want to extend it. It's a temporary law and it can be renewed. Do you want to continue to shape the rent protection in this way or do you want to do it another way? That is why I would like to say to Mrs Van Eijs why I have chosen to ensure that the law has been reviewed before the end of its term. If you do it afterwards and it expires, you have nothing to base yourself on to extend it or not in unchanged form.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u16	I am rapporteur for the IenW Committee. You're thinking, why am I asking this? That is because I look at the budget and the plans there. We often find out afterwards that we cannot properly assess whether we are happy with the measure that has been taken. That is why I asked about the evaluation. Mr Nijboer said: the law does what it has to do. My question is: when did the law do what it has to do? What would Mr Nijboer want, if we look back in two and a half years' time, so that he is entitled to argue that the law should be extended?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u17	If there are no rent increases of inflation plus 1% and above, unless there is investment in quality or sustainability. That's very easy to measure. Think of the numbers. That 87,000 came from last year's rent increases. It's estimated, it could be 88,000 or 90,000. In that order is the number of tenants who have received inflation plus 1% and more over the past year. They're not supposed to be around anymore. That's where zeros are supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u19	We know about last year. We also know that of the last six years the rent increase last year was highest. You can look back at that. I've been working a bit at the university and I agree with everyone that you know more as you have information about more years. Of course, that's always the case. I agree directly with Mrs Van Eijs. But since this law runs for three years, I attach importance to evaluation after two and a half years. At least you'll have two years to compare the rentals. Mr Koerhuis also asked about the small investor. He actually says: if a butcher or a vegetable farmer rents his apartment, why should it be covered by this law? My answer to that is very simple: I want to protect the tenant. So that actually applies to everyone. It would be a good thing if the tenant were better protected if he rented his house at a pension fund than at any vegetable farmer or random house milker. We want to protect that tenant. That is the purpose of this law. I think inflation plus 1% is very good at defending it. In principle, all expenses are already in inflation. So the starting point is real rent protection. So I think that's reasonable, too. And that vegetable farmer can of course also, if he makes house improvements, in principle increase the rent because the quality of the property improves. Then came the question of whether the bill would not increase the number of flex contracts. Why are you taking those three years anyway? Why do you do that rent increase every year and don't you follow the proposal of the IVBN, the association of institutional investors, just to fund it in five years' time? That has to do with a number of things. First of all... If you did, you could take on all the flexible contracts that five years, that 7.5% that the IVBN proposes or that 5% in this bill. The landlords can then take it in one year, and then take another tenant and they can do it again. So if you're not assuming inflation plus 1%, the protection of all these flexible contracts is basically gone. Secondly, I think it is really necessary to do it this way, not to tempt the landlords to keep putting new tenants in the homes. If you can keep doing that with a larger percentage, you'll stimulate the flex contracts even more. I want to get rid of that, too, but that is another debate in the Chamber. But you'll stimulate that even more. That wouldn't be my preference. It applies for three years. If you record this permanently, it is spread differently over the years than by a temporary law that applies for three years. As far as I am concerned, this temporary law can also be extended; I am very honest in that. So I'm not saying you won't have that law in three years. In three years, there will be a new weighing moment for the Chamber to extend that law or not. If you're gonna spread that out, what do you have left for protection? This in response to the CDA's questions about the deadline. I think I may have learned the questions a little by heart, as you can see...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u20	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u21	But I think I have tried to do justice to the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u22	I see Mr Terpstra and Mr Koerhuis. Mr. Koerhuis, tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u23	We were just talking about the exception of sustainability. My question was whether an increase in interest rates could also be covered by the exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u24	No. There are two exceptions provided for in the law. That is firstly the improvement of the quality of the home......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Secondly, this is more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr Nijboer spoke in detail about the concerns and questions that live in the Chamber about what the regulation of rents will do with investment and new building investments. There came a clear and adequate answer. I have also said in my contribution that it can also encourage something else: illegal sublet hire, increasing initial hire and lack of maintenance, precisely because the rents are regulated. In the long term, this could also lead to a smaller offer and even higher rental prices. My question to Mr Nijboer is whether he can go into that and how this could be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u26	I think that is the same right concern as concerns about investment. Mr Terpstra is quite right; I should have said so. If you see now what the starting rents are, I hardly see how people can pay an even greater share of their income in rent. We now see that 20% of tenants in the free sector have lost more than 50% of net income in housing costs. So you've got a hell of a knack now. The CDA Group is very dissatisfied with the fact that this cut is there and that these maximum rents are already being requested from people. How can you ask for more rooms than you already do? For every rental house there are 20 to 30 people available. So my theorem would be, uh, that's also if you look at the market right now, uh, that the maximum rent is already being asked of people. There's no room left to ask for more. You are right that less revenue can put pressure on the maintenance level. We see that in practice at Vestia. There is maximum savings in maintenance, which is a very bad thing. Of course, institutional investors do not say: we are going to lose our homes. But if you look at the rental income that is now allowed and the initial rents that may still be chosen, I expect inflation plus 1% to be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u27	There you are again, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u28	I'm just thinking during the debate. Mr Nijboer talks about rent protection, except for sustainability. Then the landlord gets to go all the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u29	With agreement, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr Nijboer mentioned that last year there were some 80,000 homes above inflation plus 1.5% rent increases. My question is: how much was for sustainability and how much was not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u31	I don't have those numbers. By the way, the rent increase was for 87,000 homes inflation plus 1%. These figures are simply in the explanatory statement, so Mr Koerhuis also has them. You'll see that the rent increase is very heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u32	Finally, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yes, perhaps in conclusion for Mr Nijboer's second term, but I am very curious to see how much of that figure of 80,000 from Mr Nijboer has been for sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u34	That's what I'd like to know. If the Minister can turn up these figures, I am very interested in them. But we shouldn't make the problem any smaller than it is. We don't have a lot of employees here, but I ran into someone today who said, "I have a very cool landlord who put inflation plus 4% in his contract." He thought that was cool, because the sector-wide, common rent was inflation plus 5%. It just happens. Those people are just walking around here and they're all over the Netherlands. So we should not pretend that there is no one or almost no one who gets a decent rent increase. This law is intended to counter that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u35	I have a slightly different question, because two things Mr Nijboer said make me think: about the corona crisis and about the people who are already struggling. The other day we also had a discussion about rent discounts and the possibility for housing corporations, for example, but also others, to be helpful and to say: this month no rent or half, so that after that, if someone finds another job, they can go up again. I was wondering if this bill would affect the possibilities we have been discussing lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think that's a good question. I got a little bit of a head on that last week, too, because I got some information about it too. However, we must prevent landlords who temporarily make a rent reduction from getting caught up in this law. I would also like to ask the Minister how this is working on that somewhat technical point, because it is a corona measure that is working on a law that I have been working on over the past year. I am quite prepared to change that, if it pinches, and look at an amendment or to submit a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u37	So the idea is that landlords still give rent discounts and are generous, because they know that the possibility remains to return later to the original rental plus something of 1%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u38	Of course. It's a law that tries to limit rent increases and make the tenant stronger. Anything that's good for tenants should improve this law. This should not be driven into the wheels by temporary measures taken because of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u39	Let's talk about the scope of this bill. Does this maximation of the rent in the free sector really apply to all rentals in the free sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u40	Also in the social sector. It's widened to the social sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u41	My question is as follows. Let's look at Amsterdam. Apparently this applies to the huge penthouses that are rented there. Fine. I just checked on Funda. I ran into a huge building in Amsterdam for rent for €17,500 per month. It's supposed to be real. Also for such properties is the maximation of the rental price? Why didn't Mr Nijboer set a certain limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u42	Well, the rents have become ridiculously high in the Netherlands, but fortunately this is still an exception. I've been thinking, do you have to max out these rent increases on a rent of... But, yeah, what do you say? Mid-incomes already pay so much. Especially if you have a family, are in the big city and want to live a little decently, then €1,500 rent is immense, but it still happens. And I want to protect those people. €2,000 can hardly pay people, but there are families with a strong middle income who can't actually afford it, and they do. You're gonna have to drop it? So I deliberately didn't choose to do that. You're right. There's a handful of people with rents like that. The investors, the people who rent it, will suffer. I mean, it's not like we all have to make it. Investors will have a little less rent revenue. But these people are therefore also subject to the general principle that then applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u43	I have also mentioned in my contribution that some 87,000 tenants have been helped by this law. That's great. But I ask this question because I want to know how many of those 87,000 people from those penthouses have with a rent of €17,500. In other words, how many of those 87,000 tenants are really stuck financially? How many people out of 87,000 are among the 800,000 tenants mentioned by the Nibud who really can't afford it anymore? So I really want to ask: is the help of this law really going to be given to those who are now financially stuck?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u44	The answer to that is yes. Why? It concerns the whole free sector, and there are a lot of people in it who pay 40% or 50% of their net income in rent. We limit that. This isn't regulated right now. But because of the letter of amendment, it also works out to the social rental sector, where there have also been considerable increases in rents in recent years. Especially the people who started out in the social housing sector do not have the top incomes that Mr Kops fears. So the answer to the question is yes. Does that mean it's all 87,000 people? Or aren't there much more than 87,000? My point would be that there might be a lot more, especially if you look at what housing corporations still intend to ask for rents in the future. So in short, yes. This is a good law protecting tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u45	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u47	Then I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior after the chair has been cleaned. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am here on behalf of the cabinet as an advisor to the Chamber. I would like to complement Mr Nijboer in making this initiative legislative proposal. It is not an easy task for a Member of Parliament, but it happens with great regularity. I am pleased to be present at this fine bill. The bill fits nicely with the government policy on the affordability of rents. I've talked to your room about that a lot. I fully support this bill. Mrs Kuik is not here right now, but she specifically asked this in the first term and I think it is important to say this. The Cabinet embraces it and I embrace it, if you will. We now have no restrictions on rent increases in the free rental sector. If no clause is included in the rental contract, then tenants may face a very high rent increase during the contract and excesses may arise. Your Chamber has a lot of interest in hiring excesses, and I mean, of course, above all to do something about them. Maximising the rent increase on inflation plus 1% prevents excesses. As a result, tenants will no longer be able to face huge increases that weigh very heavily on their monthly expenses. I think it is even more important in this corona crisis to be able to take this step. This applies to all leases, for a period of three years. The initiator has addressed this. We're dealing with a historic crunch on the housing market. We are also facing a corona crisis and uncertain economic prospects. I think that three-year period is good. It allows us to learn from the effects of the measure and to evaluate, as Mr Nijboer has just said. You can therefore decide in time, during that period, what wisdom is for the follow-up. This is, of course, also a political issue which will undoubtedly be addressed in the next formation. I also think it is important for tenants to have access to the Rent Committee with this bill. I also think it is important that I should go into this in a way that will enable sustainability and renovation to continue. That is why, I think, it is very good that this has been added through the letter of amendment. I can divide the answers to the questions that have been asked to me into three parts: the questions about the legislative proposal itself, the balance between affordability for the tenant and the willingness to invest for the landlords, for which attention has been paid by various groups and what is a recognizable dilemma, and finally the questions that have been asked about a licensing system for landlords and the Housing Fund. First of all, on the bill itself. I start with the Rent Committee, the role of the Rent Committee and the feasibility for the Rent Committee. This is extra work for the Rent Committee, but I do expect the Rent Committee to be able to cope with that influx. We, the Rent Commission and the BZK together, have taken a good look at it. We estimate that the measure will provide several hundred additional procedures every year. They are, to speak in the terms of the Rent Committee, relatively easy procedures. It doesn't take a house inspection. The Rent Committee will, of course, be financially compensated for this. The Rent Commission can use the same method as for rent increases disputes in the regulated segment. We see from the track record of the Rent Committee that in general she manages to complete that type of dispute in good time and in good time. They also asked whether an execution test had been carried out. The Rent Committee has previously looked, on the basis of the original cabinet proposal, my proposal, at the maximation of rents on inflation plus 2.5%. In this way, therefore, we have looked at the feasibility. That was not a formal execution test, but de facto I think we can consider it that way. Since I said that the Rent Committee is actually going through the same procedure as in the regulated sector, the Rent Committee considers this feasible. Then there is the legal sustainability. That was a question from Mr Koerhuis. If you maximize the rent on inflation plus 1%, that's a restriction on ownership. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's But given the importance involved, it is a justified restriction of ownership. It's to counter excessive rent increases. This is a broader social interest. It's provided for by law, so it's known to the landlord. It is a balance between the interested parties and the property owners on the one hand and the tenants on the other and it is over a period of three years. So the answer is yes. Then I come to the issue that was raised at the end: how does this initiative proposal relate to the other legislative proposal, which looks at the temporary rent reduction, the temporary rent discount, and the possible correction thereof? Mrs. Van Eijs asked for that. Mr Nijboer said that, of course, it was not intended to make that possible. That's actually how I interpreted it. We are not supposed to be doing two contradictory things here. The temporary rental discount is important, especially in this corona time. The deal is that you could go back to the original rent if the situation at some point is so that you can do it again. I hear the initiator say that it should not get in the way of each other as far as he is concerned. So we have to make sure we can do it. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about the effects on the offer. I agree with the initiator that, if you look closely at it, the effect on the offer should be limited. The assessment is, of course, based on, on the one hand, the objective pursued by the legislative proposal and, on the other hand, the interests of the homeowners. We're doing something for a period of three years, so with limited adverse effects. I would also like to say that in recent times, last year, the average rent increase in the free sector was 2.1%. That's where it was under inflation. I believe that the fear that it would have a significant restrictive effect on supply will not prove to be the case. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of affordability for the tenant and the willingness to invest. In the meantime, I'm getting more pieces. There's actually a broader dilemma. Mr Terpstra said that last week, when we had the first term, too. You actually want the best of both worlds, of both worlds: enough affordable homes, also rental homes, but you also need landlords, because they don't come into being automatically. So we need landlords, parties that invest. An affordable rent for a low-income tenant could thus also create a gap in the balance sheet, the landlord's budget. In the Netherlands we know that of course and that is why the government jumps in to arrive at a final balance. We do so for low incomes and social housing with all kinds of measures, such as appropriate allocation, rent allowance and subsidies. For middle rentals and middle incomes, gaps are actually seen in the balance between affordability and supply. There's not really a simple solution to this. So regulating the initial hire in the free sector serves one side of the balance you're looking for. So I very much agree with Terpstra and others who said: we do need enough supply, we do need to make sure that additional homes are built. In addition, we also have, it was about just now, the sustainability statement. It costs money. Especially for the middle segment, we should not underestimate that. Again, there are all kinds of parties that play a role in this, the government of course, not least. I think that, at least in the past period, we have sometimes come to very good and nice solutions with the housing impulse and the housing deals in certain regions. But there is not one simple solution; part of it is customization and weighing, and it requires cooperation between the different parties that are needed to do so. Mr Smeulders asked what is going on with the investigation into the increase in the liberalization limit. He made an own-initiative paper for that. I have indeed promised to investigate the increase in this liberalization limit. We're working on that investigation. This is actually in line with what I just said; here too: how can you have sufficiently affordable rentals and at the same time investors? As soon as that investigation is completed, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. I expect that this will be at least before the Lower House elections; perhaps that was also what Mr Smeulders wanted to know. Mrs Van Eijs had also asked a question which saw at the starting hours. I understand that question. It has, of course, already been addressed by the initiator. I think it will help if, in conjunction with the announcement of this maximation of the rent increase, you also work on making the initial rental price transparent for the tenants. That's why I'm working with the sector on a covenant. I hope that agreement will be there in the course of this spring. I do not know exactly when it will be, but as far as I am concerned this spring. The agreements in this covenant could also be anchored in legislation. So I'm actually doing it by way of a step-by-step approach. Of course, we are also doing a number of other things, for example, to living crookedly. So it's not the only thing we do, but I do think that this route and the combination of making the initial hires transparent can help, of course, in combination with the offer we've been talking about. Then there is the issue of the licensing system. That's what it was about in the first term. Mrs. Beckerman asked about it, and I thought Mrs. Van Eijs asked about it. Reference is often made to the Groningen licensing system. We have, of course, made agreements with Groningen about this. It's actually a pilot. The evaluation of that pilot has already begun. I also support other municipalities, simply with knowledge and expertise and with financial resources, so that they can also work on this in different ways. That's actually going well. We also have that buy-back protection. There are elements of the good landlordship. That is a bill that is now in internet consultation. The major cities have also responded to this. They actually stand for a broader rental permit. So it's work in progress. I will inform the Chamber about this this spring and see if, and if so, how we could agree on some sort of national system for this. Mr Smeulders asked about the Housing Fund. He's excited about that, so am I. It is about a lot of money, 450 million, for the viability and sustainability of the housing stock in the most vulnerable neighbourhoods in the municipalities in the Netherlands. So we will be able to do a lot with that, together with municipalities, housing corporations and private owners. It'll be about demolition and new construction. It will be about transformation, renovation and sustainability, in particular, I think that is the most important of these in those places where it is most needed. We all know these areas: the shrinking regions, the border regions, the difficult areas in some cities. It will run through a specific benefit. The scheme is now in internet consultation. We are all trying to do it quickly and to ensure that it can be opened up as soon as possible. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about this too. Mr. Chairman. I thought there were a few more questions from Mr Nijboer's first term, at least a little bit moved on to me. That's what I'm here for, because the consultant's here for a reason. I'll see if I can answer that as well. How many out of 87,000 tenants had an increase due to sustainability? That was the debate with Mr Koerhuis. I am told here that in the 87,000 there are no increases associated with housing improvements. That's what I know. A house improvement is not necessarily only sustainable, but also renovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u49	Let me see if you have another question from Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u50	No, that was the answer I can give to that question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u51	A brief question or comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u52	Thank you for the answer. Then where did those sustainability rent increases go? And in how many of those 80,000 there were income-dependent rent increases, for example because high incomes are in too cheap a rental house?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr Koerhuis is asking me now. I'll see if I can deepen this a little further in the second term. I can say that at least there was no... It was also about the periodic penalty payments for sustainability. That is not the case at the moment. This legislative proposal provides that in the case of sustainability and renovation the rent increase may be requested which is reasonable in relation to the investment made. The question of periodic penalty payments does not arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr. Koerhuis, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u55	In relation to investment. In that I hear that the guarantee of residential expense neutrality is or should be part of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u56	Then I really have to join the initiator. That's not what this bill says. We've made other arrangements about that. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you for your advice. Then I'll look at the MPs. We have arrived at the second term of office. I assume there's a need for a second term. Yeah? Then that's what we're gonna do. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Nijboer and his support for the reply. Very handsome, completely out of mind. It is very nice that we can deal with and adopt this bill before the elections. I wish Mr Nijboer every success in the First Chamber with the defense. I'm sure that's as smooth as it is here. We have one motion. It is about lowering or determining as the government's initial rents, because we see that there are major problems, especially in the free sector. When someone moves, hundreds of euros often come on top. The result is that the middle rent for a lot of people is really no longer payable. Since we are all currently writing election programmes and are doing good things about them at the CDA, for example, at this point, we have been inspired to make a motion. 'Cause let's forge the iron now that it's hot. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many tenants in the free sector have to deal with high rents due to the absence of rent protection;]] [[Whereas, as a result of excessive increases in initial hire, it is becoming impossible for more and more people to find an affordable house in the middle hire;]] [[points out that it is desirable to include rental prices in part of the free rental sector in the housing valuation system;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare for a decision to allow rent protection through the housing valuation system in the free rental sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smeulders, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35488-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr President, that is correct. I've been in the audience all day, and I'm getting a little pissed off, so forgive me. I have, of course, followed the input, but I also have a motion, and I am going to read it to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas increasing numbers of people and especially young people experience increasing uncertainty about essential things in life such as their jobs and housing;]] [[Whereas the standard appears and threatens to become increasingly standard, that rental contracts are first temporary;]] [[Whereas this is putting increasing pressure on the security of an affordable home;]] [[Whereas it is increasingly shared that the flexibility of the labour market has gone out of control and that we should not go in that direction in the area of housing;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to stop the flexibilisation of rental contracts and to focus only on groups for which this is appropriate, such as (international) students and temporary migrant workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Smeulders and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35488-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u60	Then there is nothing left for me but to thank the author and his supporters and to hope for a good vote. That would be incredibly nice in our joint search for life's happiness and an affordable home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. We're all impressed. Mr Kops has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the initiator for the answer. I told you, 800,000 tenants are already in financial trouble. These are 800,000 tenants with actually too high rents, too high housing costs, and that is the result of years of government policy. In ten years Rutte rents in the free sector have risen 44%. This bill restricts these huge rent increases in the free sector, and that is, of course, a good thing. Especially when you realize that a lot of tenants in the free sector didn't even choose to do so voluntarily, but were forced to do so, so to speak. Either because they just make a little too much money for a social housing unit, or because they just make a little too little money to qualify for a property. Those people absolutely need to be protected from these huge rent increases. We are, of course, still saying that as PVV for a rental stop. The rents have risen so much. It's time for those rents to go down. This bill is a first good step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In ten years, Rutte's rents have risen by 35%. Last year, in the middle of the corona crisis, the cabinet once again made the highest rent increase in six years. You know my party really hates that. Three motions from my group in the First Chamber have been adopted to freeze all rents. Then today there was good news, because the first voter is public. And what do we see there? At the theorem "don't rent up for the next four years," we see Mr. Rutte's head beautifully on "agreed," and Mrs. Kaag "agreed." I thought: that's good news for the tenants in the Netherlands. Then let's not wait any longer. I have just looked up the texts that the parties themselves submit to support. I typed it over for a nice motion. Mr. Koerhuis, please hear me, because it belongs to your party. I hope, of course, that you will sign the motion wholeheartedly afterwards. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2020 tenants of corporate housing received an average rent increase of 2,7%;]] [[Whereas a lower rent for people who rent a social housing from a housing corporation is desirable and that the rents then fall instead of go up;]] [[calls on the government to freeze rents in the social rental sector this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Smeulders and Mr Kikken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35488-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr. Chairman. I hope, however, that the parties will not make promises in voters who vote them out, so I assume that this motion will finally be adopted in this Chamber. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas start-ups deserve better opportunities in the housing market;]] [[noting that municipalities do not now have the instruments to enforce a residence obligation for existing housing;]] [[calls on the Government to give municipalities the opportunity to introduce an obligation to self-inhabit existing properties and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Smeulders and Mr Kikken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35488-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that some parties may not be moving fast enough, we are actually taking quite a big step today. Today, for the first time, we are talking about imposing something of regulation on the free-for-hire sector. I think that's something to memorize. But we have also had a discussion with each other on whether it is enough. I think the vocalists themselves already point out that not everyone thinks so. The debate on the way in which I would like to promote by tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the high pressure and thus high prices on the housing market in many areas of the Netherlands, including the free sector, will continue for a long time due to the housing shortage;]] [[Whereas for the first time, the present legislative proposal affects the free sector with some form of rent regulation;]] [[Whereas there is not yet a complete analysis of the different possibilities and consequences of systematic rent regulation, including initial rents, of the free sector;]] [[calls on the government to launch an investigation into possible forms of rent regulation in the free sector and the consequences of the various possibilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35488-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had the first deadline of Mr Nijboer's initiative law. This week we have the second term. This temporary law provides that rents can only be increased with inflation plus 1% with a number of exceptions over the next three years. I would like to thank Mr Nijboer and the Minister for the answers to my questions, but, as the debate has shown, I would like to ask about the neutrality of housing costs. I heard Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party say: rent protection except for sustainability. He came up with the figure of 80,000 homes.... that figure fell in the debate... which had a higher rent increase than 1.5%. That wasn't for sustainability. How many homes are above 1.5% for sustainability? Where the hell did those apartments go? My question that remains open is: how many of those 80,000 were for crooked citizens? I assume that can continue under Mr Nijboer's law. I assume that this exception will continue to apply, as will the exception for temporary rental discounts, which Mrs Van Eijs has made. I would like to come back to: rent protection, except for sustainability. I'm a little disappointed in that. I thought the Labour Party was about rent protection, but they're going a little bit on the GroenLinkstour: except for sustainability. In my first term, I had asked whether residential neutrality could not be included as a prerequisite in the law. I would like to give a good explanation of that from Mr Nijboer, because I think that is important. Is Mr Nijboer considering a letter of amendment on this point? Those were my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mrs Beckerman has a question for you, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u71	I told you before: in ten years Rutte there was an increase in rent of 35%. Last year, in the corona crisis, rents increased by another 6%. No, sorry. It was the highest increase in six years. There's a new rent rise coming up now, but your party says the following in that voter. We see Mr. Rutte here. It says: the rents shouldn't be up in the next four years. I agree, says the VVD. Do you agree with me that we should freeze the rents in the social sector for the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u72	First of all, you are failing Mrs Ollongren, because she has been the minister for living and building in the last four years. I do not know whether you have heard in the discussions, for example in the one-off rental discount Act, how much we agree with that. We, the VVD and the SP, are often together in this Chamber, because we want the social rentals to be social again. This year it is going to be €750 or €760; that is better said by the Minister. I don't think that's social anymore. I think that's very high. I have always said on behalf of the VVD: the housing costs must be reduced. The rents are too high and there is only one good solution in the long term: building. I think I heard Mr Nijboer say the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mrs. Beckerman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u74	I'll show you one more time. It's not that hard. You filled it out yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u75	I answered the question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u76	The question was as follows. It says: the rents shouldn't be up in the next four years. The VVD says: yes, we agree. But the government's plans are still to increase the rents, even in social rents, again in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u77	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u78	The very simple question to the VVD is: do you support the motion that has just been tabled by my party to freeze the social rents now? Because you say it yourself: the VVD wants a lower rent for people living in social housing. Then you can't continue to support the cabinet and increase the rents? Then you can only support my motion, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr. Koerhuis, how do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mrs Beckerman does not answer my question at all. She's calling in the cabinet's plans. One of the plans that I very much agree with and in which we have often raised together is the one-time rent reduction Act, which will enter into force this year. That's a hell of a law, and that's what the rents just go down with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u81	Finally. Oh, you don't have to. Okay. That's fine. One last attempt, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u82	I can't stop reading it. It is not my words, it is your words, the words of the VVD. He says that the rents in the social rent are too high and should be reduced. But for most of the tenants, your cabinet has another rent increase in store. Of course it is nice that a small group will receive a rent reduction, but if you say 'I assume that you are filling out votes in truth 'that the rents should not go up, then you should also vote that the rents do not go up. Again the simple question: do you vote for my motion, and not just for a small group, as an exception, but for all tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u83	In my opinion, Mrs Beckerman does not want to hear the answer, not even during my contribution to the one-time rent discount Act. I also said at the time: this is a good first step, and we believe that more steps are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u84	Good. Then I'm going to see Mr. Terpstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u85	At the end of the first term, I also indicated to Mr Koerhuis that he was a bit of the party of house milkers. He was grumbling a little bit, and now in second term again. Because yes, there must be some money to be made in renting, we also need landlords. I would like to continue on a point made by Mrs Beckerman. I see the voter today and then my proverbial lump breaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u86	It always breaks with me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u87	Exactly. And now he's gonna break into my place. Because what's the case? On the question of whether all rents should be frozen, the VVD says: completely once. And then Mr. Koerhuis here needs a lot of words to indicate: yes, we have to build. Well, then he finds the CDA by his side. But does Mr Koerhuis not agree with me that we sometimes need limited rent increases, for example for corporations and for investors, in order to build? Or is the flat opportunism of the VVD that they tell the voter, to win some souls, that the rents should be frozen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr. Koerhuis!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u89	Now I hear the CDA. I was just thinking back to my first-term input. I didn't mention landlords. The CDA has literally said there, and I remember that well: we must also be there for landlords. So that wasn't my first-term input, it was the CDA's. So to stay in the words of Mr Terpstra: if there is a party for the house milkers, that is the CDA. Then I hear him in a sigh saying here that corporations, including landlords, should be able to continue with rent increases. So if you don't mind if I show him the mirror, the CDA says we should be there for landlords. And the CDA is now saying, here, that corporations have to continue with rent increases. So if there's a batch for house milkers, then the CDA; to stay in his words, but I'd rather stay away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u90	I note that the VVD, purely because it is moving towards elections, indicates that the rents must be frozen and filled in in voters, purely to win some souls and some votes. If we want to propose the real solutions to the housing shortage, we must indeed build. But that also means "telling the fair story," Mr Koerhuis, and you are not doing that here, namely that we should also build with the help of corporations and with the help of investors. Then you shouldn't say so flat, right before the election, we're gonna freeze all the rents. Because you also know: that's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u91	I would like to hear the honest story of Mr Terpstra, who simply says in his first term'rental increases must continue' and then calls another party the party of house milkers. Then Mr Terpstra must also be honest. I repeat: that law for a one-time rent discount for the lowest income found the VVD a good first step. We'd be happy to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u92	It's amazing what happened. Mr Koerhuis is profiling himself for four years as the breakaway of social housing and the VVD says: no, we do not want the rents to rise. You can't do that. Is Mr Koerhuis going to vote in favour of the motion that Mrs Beckerman has just tabled on my behalf?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u93	It seems as if Mr Smeulders does not want to hear it; I can hardly believe it. But the truth is: that temporary rental discount law was a good first step. If we are going to look at legislation, then I am quite prepared to take more steps. But it looks like he doesn't want to hear that. Now he's coming up with a motion, a chamber statement. I'd rather just have the proper legal work, if I may be so bold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u94	Okay, Mr. Koerhuis, you don't want to answer the motion, because of course you're going to vote against it and because that's a little painful. But you want a lawsuit. There was a law, from the cabinet, to make the World Trade Organisation less important in the points system, which would reduce the increase in rents. That's a law against rent increases. It has been declared controversial by Mr Terpstra of the CDA but also by you, this week! How can you say that you want to do so much not to increase the rents, while declaring a proposal from your own cabinet controversial, a proposal that is there to help the tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u95	Mr. Koerhuis, what exactly is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr Smeulders does not want to hear it. He just doesn't want to hear it. I get it: Mr Smeulders wants to put me away as someone who wants the rents up. I don't want to. I don't want the rents up. I understand that it fits well into Mr Smeulder's frame, but I do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u97	Okay, thank you. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm looking at Mr. Nijboer to see if he can answer directly? Yeah? Well, I think that's great. Then we can make it to 7:00, I hope. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u98	That's how the chair is really high up, Mr. President. It's heading all the way to heaven. That might be a little overzealous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u99	Oh, sorry. Yes, it is set on Mr. Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u100	I can't help it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for a good debate. Five motions have been tabled. I highly recommend them all to the Minister. I also have warm feelings about this, but I have not been asked to judge it. Mr. Chairman. In fact, only the VVD has asked me a number of questions as initiator of this bill. They were first of all about the neutrality of housing costs. That concept doesn't make sense for housing improvement, because you get a better home and pay more. So that's never house-to-house neutral. And for sustainability, of course, there is no protection at all. I would also like to give that to Mr Koerhuis. If a landlord's gonna last your house now, he can ask what he wants. Because there is no rent protection. He's starting to make something really big here, while this law actually protects him. Then he asked another question about those 87,000 people. We have different political views on this matter. He asked if it doesn't affect the people in social housing where he would like to have extra rent increases. He said it again in the debate: they have to pay more rent, because they are crooked people; we have to give those people a rent increase. The theorems for the Kieswijzer were for the VVD, but that is what he has just advocated. Those people aren't in there, because that's the free sector. Those 87,000 are in the unregulated, free sector. You can see that, too. The rent increases in the whole social sector are therefore not included. It is about the free sector, for which this law is intended. Those were Mr Koerhuis' questions. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to thank the Chamber very much for this fine debate on a truly fundamental change in rent protection, which I hope will be realised here. I'm tasting pretty broad support in the Chamber. I love to see that. I would particularly like to thank Mr Smeulders for our joint commitment in the negotiations on the support for this year's Minister's budget, which helped to manage this well. I would like to thank the Minister for her willingness to be so positive about this bill. I would like to thank the official support of the Ministry of the Interior, which was really excellent. That would help a lot if you wanted to pass a law like that. Finally, of course, I would like to thank the people who have actually done all the work. I'm standing here a little... I was gonna say "be nice," but that's not the term. I'm kind of defending things here, but Jan and Milo, of course, have done all the work. I want to thank them so much. I look forward to voting on Tuesday with confidence, and I hope that this law can enter into force quickly in order to free tenants from excessive rent increases. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Modestity is a credit to man, and certainly to Mr Nijboer, but we know that he has also worked very hard on this and has just done an excellent job of answering it. A few more questions have been asked to me. I will, indeed, also comment on the motions. The question I wanted to answer a little more in detail, or a little more in detail than just now, is that of the convergence between these two legislative proposals. I think it would be a good idea to know exactly how we could correct that. It is therefore the Nijboer initiative proposal on the one hand and the Temporary rental discount on the other. There was already a so-called coincidence in order to allow this to go well, but the letter of amendment does indeed require an adjustment. This is no longer the case. In order to allow temporary rental discounts for liberalised rental agreements after the entry into force of this initiative proposal, an updated co-regulation is needed that achieves exactly the same level as the now obsolete Article 5 of legislative proposal 35516, which was adopted by the Lower House on 8 December 2020. That way we can correct this. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u103	A very short question, Mr. Koerhuis, because you've been interrupting a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u104	It's a lawsuit, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u105	Yeah, yeah, yeah, but... Finally. Really one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u106	I do not know what the Minister is going to say, but the law on income limits and rent increases does allow the rents of crooked residents to be increased above the social rental threshold. I know, and that's the double check, that they remain formal social leases. So they're not covered by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u107	Yes, thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u108	So my answer was on that other point that was just about to be interrupted. I think we've just done the cost-neutrality thing. Mr Nijboer has already answered the question about 87 000 houses. Then I just have a few facts, perhaps in response to Mr Kops of the PVV and Mrs Beckerman, which I would like to clarify. I don't need to defend Rutte for ten years. I've only been a part of that for the last cabinet period. I wasn't in Rutte I with the tolerance construction, and I wasn't in Rutte II, but I was in the last part. I think it's good to say here that I've worked really hard to improve that affordability. I think I just got something from Mr Koerhuis on that. We have done this together, and that is also reflected in a reduction in housing quotas and rental quotas among tenants. That's also reflected in the number of expensive crooks, which has decreased. I am very curious to see how the debate continues in the run-up to the elections and the formation. I follow all this with great interest, of course, but we have helped 260,000 tenants together with the one-off rent reduction bill. It is very often repeated here that 800,000 tenants are in financial trouble. You will never hear from me a relativization of the fact that there are tenants in trouble, but that 800,000 is a number from 2015. So I think it's really important to look at what's happened since then. For example, appropriate allocation has been introduced, corporations build more and income limits have been removed from the rent payment. It is not the case that nothing has happened since 2015 and since that figure. Of course, incomes have also partly increased, but if you sell that again against the rent increase... I sometimes hear mention percentages that I do not recognize at all and which are simply not based on facts either. So I would really like to call on everyone not to say things too easily, not to make big gestures too easily and not to use numbers too easily that don't add up. The real rent increase in the last year, i.e. adjusted for inflation, is negative. Those are facts, too. So I would also like to draw the House's attention to the new facts and figures, and I would like to call on everyone to use them. Then, chairman, the motions. The first motion is the motion Smeulders c.s. in piece No. 11. It calls on the government to prepare for a decision to allow rent protection through the housing valuation system in the free sector. I am concerned about the way in which this motion has been formulated. Look, we're a missionary cabinet on our way to elections. I could very well imagine the Chamber saying: you can explore something that goes a bit in that direction. This could perhaps also be interpreted by the Chamber as a form of preparation. But it does take a lot to give Chamber on this motion. That really seems to sort out on something, while I, if you would ask me "investigate it," there a lot...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u110	It's actually a speech-exmotion, because I realize very well that the cabinet is outgoing and it doesn't make sense to leave super-large things in the cabinet. But if the Chamber says it wants to do so, in our view it is a logical follow-up that the government will then continue to develop that wish of the Chamber, without any very precise elaboration. There is also more space in the formation. But I don't really want to waste time, which is why this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u111	Of course, I'll wait and see what the Chamber does. Again, I do not see any objection to investigating this, but I do not think that a outgoing cabinet can make preparations. At least I cannot give an opinion on this, but I am, of course, awaiting the opinion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u112	But it does say "requests the government." Anyway, fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u113	I didn't advise him, but I did with a little reluctance, and I also suggested how I could explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u114	You have until Tuesday, Mr Smeulders, to think about a new wording, so that colleagues can see it and vote on it in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u115	Then the motion chick c.s. in piece No. 12, Chairman. This motion deals with the issue of the flexibility of rental contracts. Of course, I have talked to the Chamber about this many times. I said we're in the process of evaluating the temporary leases. It will be completed this spring and I would very much like to wait for it. I think that's the time to draw conclusions. So you could hold the motion until then, or else I'll have to discourage the motion for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u116	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u117	The third motion is the motion-Beckerman c.s.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mrs. Chicken, very briefly. If you walk to the interrupt microphone, you don't have to put your mouth cap on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u119	I just wanted to reflect on that. But that's also spacious after the election, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mrs. Kuik wants more precision from me than "in spring." I don't know. Spring is indeed an easy term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u121	Well, then we'll just put him in a mood. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u122	It's in a mood, okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u123	Sorry, I'm getting live as we speak now, because I can commit April to the Chamber. In any case, you will be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u124	Okay. Yeah, okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u125	The motion in part No. 13 by Mrs Beckerman on the freezing of social rents. We are also going to set the maximum rent increase in the regulated sector to inflation plus 1%. I think that's a really big restriction. All the time we are looking for the balance between protecting the tenant and investing in and building and realizing new homes. We have made certain choices and discussed them very often with the Chamber. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u126	Yes. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u127	Then I would also like to show it to the Minister: the voter who can fill in the parties themselves. We can really see that Mrs Kaag agrees with the statement that "don't rent up in the next four years." Then we'll hear something else from the Minister the same day. It says: we are going to increase the rents in the social sector. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mrs Beckerman has heard me say that I am dissuading her motion because I believe that I too, as a outgoing minister, should be consistent with what I have advocated so far. We have opted for specific rent reduction for 260,000 tenants. They keep on average €40 per month in their wallet, allowing them to make ends meet. That's what I chose. Everyone is free, and certainly my party with list leader Kaag, to make other choices in the election program. But I can't suddenly do something else as a missionary minister. That's different from how parties fill out their vote-marks. Of course, I'm not responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u129	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u130	The fact that the Minister lowers rents for some of the tenants is a very good step. But it's not enough. The First Chamber has adopted three motions for a rent freeze. Your party is now saying the same thing in voting rights. I can therefore imagine that the Minister is now saying: we are expelled; I find this secretly too, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u131	I think this is sneaky, too, haha. It's nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u132	I do think Mrs Beckerman is trying very hard to convince everyone and me, but I think I should be consistent. Elections are also about this kind of thing, and that's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u133	You can't secretly say that you...? Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr President, if you will allow me, I shall proceed with the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u135	I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u136	Me too. The motion in part No. Mrs Beckerman's 14 concerns the obligation to self-inhabit. We've opted for the buy-back protection. We're working on that right now. The responses from the internet consultation I mentioned are being processed. I hope to be able to get all this to your room this spring. I am, of course, outgoing and therefore totally dependent on what the Chamber wants or does not want on that point. I can say that the duty of self-inhabitation is very difficult in legal terms. The Chamber has been informed of this more often by me. With the buy-back protection, at least we're moving in the direction of a whole end, I think. Finally, the Van Eijs motion to item No. 15. This motion calls for an investigation. In any case, I believe that in principle research efforts should always be positively handled by the cabinet. This would also fit in with the further preparation for a subsequent period. It is actually a broadening of a request that we have received earlier. I also made a commitment to Mr Smeulders. I can give the motion judgment room. If the motion is passed, I'll see how we can deepen this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u138	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u139	I see you looking, Mr. Koerhuis. It can't be about discussions about motions, because there are no motions from you. Did you leave a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u140	I had an open question. The minister went to the motions very quickly. How many properties in relation to sustainability had a rent increase of more than 1.5%? This is important for my group when it comes to weighing up the whole bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u141	In those 87,000 homes there are no increases linked to housing improvement and sustainability. I thought I'd answered that in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the examination of this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-7.u143	I would like to thank Mr Nijboer very much for the initiative proposal, because it is incredibly much work. It is incredibly much work, Mrs Kuik, to put forward an initiative bill alongside the ordinary work as a Member of Parliament. Thank you for that. This is unrelated to the outcome. The fact that you do, Mr. Nijboer, is very much appreciated. The same applies to the support, Mr Ravensbergen and Mr Gouvernante, because without staff, it is not always possible to obtain such legislative proposals. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister and all the spokesmen. We are going to vote on the bill and the motions tabled next Tuesday. This brings us to the end of the sitting. I thank everyone and close the meeting.
