ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35668, Amendment to the Coal Ban Act in connection with the reduction of CO emissions. I had already welcomed the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate - Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u3	Excuse me, Mr President, I think something did not go well, because Mr Crone is speaking on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u4	So you will not take your turn, because Mr Crone will be speaking shortly. I now give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gee, it's like I'm representing the biggest opposition party, but of course I'm representing the only real opposition party. Mr. Chairman. In the East it is the ayatollahs who preach hell and damnation and want to subject the whole world to their ideology, but in the West the climate ayatollahs can also do some of it. If we didn't submit very quickly to their green ideology, we'd all end up in a hellhole. And we shouldn't underestimate them. After all, they are supported by major international organisations such as the UN and the EU, which set up behind closed doors everything. Even the judge has settled on the seat of politics. No instrument is shunned. Even children who normally start playing football or cycling are fed on stage. Furthermore, several Cabinets have been building a network of NGOs, addicted to the grant infusion, that do the dirty work for them. Sensitive things that are not equally good for all voters must be stirred up in the social debate and rustle through the back door. For example, one time they're with the informant and the other time they're with the judge. For example, Urgenda, an organisation that has an interest in a switch to a sustainable energy supply, opened the door to both the informant and the judge. Because it would not go well with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, which would put us all at risk now because of the alleged dangerous climate change. The court ruled that the State should reduce the Dutch greenhouse gas emissions by at least 25% by the end of 2020 compared to 1990. The legal standard based on 25% is not known, but the Secretary of State may be able to explain this further. I'd like a response. With this ruling in hand, the coal-fired power plant operators will be the loser for a second time in a short period of time. Their property will not be taken away, but their use will be severely restricted. In practice, it is a form of taking away, because loss of revenue is in the process of being taken away. It's actually a form of theft in the long run. This loss would in turn be compensated by taxpayers' money which has been taken away from the citizen. This while 600,000 households already live in energy poverty. In politically correct terms, this is called regulating property. It sounds a little softer but the result is just as unpleasant. In the end, this mandatory nothingness will only make us poorer. A year ago there was a ban on coal in electricity production. That law provides for a transitional period of five or ten years, depending on the efficiency of the installation. This is to allow operators to reduce and switch their damage. They were obliged to cook biomass. After barely a year's work, the Secretary of State now comes up again with a limitation. What do you mean, trustworthy government? It is therefore not for nothing that the State is in the clinch with the owners of the coal power stations, RWE and Uniper. All this slowness to reduce CO emissions from coal plants in the years 2021 to 2024 in such a way that the total CO emissions in the years after 2020 are at least 25% lower than in 1990. In practice, this means that electricity generated from coal may not produce more than 35% CO per year of the quantity produced when the power is fully used. It is therefore a serious 65% restriction. The power stations concerned may, however, co-incinerate additional biomass as change. In short, it's quite a violation of the use of your property. They don't take your bike away, but you're only allowed to cycle two days a week. Otherwise, you can walk. Oh, yeah, and it would be temporary measures. Well, Mr President, we now know that temporaryity in Rutteland is a very stretchy concept. In order to cope with the reduced electricity production, the Dutch gas plants have to step in, or move the chimney abroad. German lignite power stations are constantly mooring and in France nuclear power is negotiable. Not that the PVV has anything against nuclear power, quite the contrary. But the Western climate ayatollahs do. Nuclear energy was unspeakable at the climate tables, but they are not dirty from imports of French nuclear energy. Don't we do something like that with batteries and Ukraine? But, yes, that aside. Whether all these antics are going to contribute to the coveted CO reduction is unknown. This depends on external factors, such as the weather and the price development of the energy carriers. So where do we end up? Nobody knows. It can't be measured anyway. What we do know is that devoiding biomass produces 15% more CO than coal. The Secretary of State has indicated that CO reduction is a compelling reason of general interest. Climate disruption must be avoided. "Climate disruption," how do you make it up! You can't take this seriously, can you? We are still unable to predict the weather for a week, let alone predict "climate degeneration." That the climate is changing is of all times. But by saying that man would cause a climate dislocation, you're gonna put on a really big pair of pants. While China cheersfully stomps hundreds of coal plants, both at home and abroad, the Secretary of State is going to avert climate change by limiting no less than four remaining coal plants. One wonders what the effect of that capacity reduction of those four coal plants is to 35%, considering that national emissions only account for 0.35% of global emissions. This makes the purpose of the bill a farce. That additional CO reduction, also ordered by the judge, would reduce global warming by 0.000045 degrees Celsius in 2100. It can't even be measured. In the Urgenda case, the State itself argued in its defence that it is only a decrease of 0.000045 degrees Celsius in 2100. Apparently, the State is seriously wondering what it is doing on the one hand, but on the other hand, the Secretary of State is continuing to break down our prosperity, which benefits from an affordable and reliable supply of energy. TenneT has already indicated that from 2025 the power supply will no longer be self-evident. Why don't all the alarm bells go off right now? Apparently, this VVD Secretary of State is still on a red cloud. Let us not forget that the Secretary of State was first active in the SP, was internship at GroenLinks and was a member of the PvdA. It says a lot about the VVD. If it were really about CO reduction, you wouldn't be forcing coal plants to cook up additional biomass, which is precisely more CO emissions. If it were really about CO reduction, you would not agree at international level that the devoid of biomass is CO-neutral. If it was really about CO reduction, you are not going to replace the electricity from Dutch efficient coal plants with electricity from, for example, German lignite plants. If it were really about CO reduction, you would not exclude nuclear energy from the climate tables. The question to the Secretary of State is therefore: how proportional are the measures in this bill now? Mr. Chairman. It's not about this so-called climate change at all. The only thing that is being disrupted is our economy and its prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u6	With great interest I follow Mrs Faber's speech, whether or not hampered by some noise from the outside. Her colleague Van Hattem has tabled a motion for transparency at the climate tables. I was wondering in this speech what is going on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u7	It's only partially redeemed. There are still many black areas in the reports and reports we have requested. That's still a point. It also says something about the transparency of Rutte-IV, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u8	Are you going to follow up on that, to make sure that we get what's at our expense in those backrooms?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u9	I can reassure Mr Otten, because I have been fighting backrooms here for ten years. Mr. Van Hattem has a much bigger drive than I do, so let him go easy. That's gonna be all right. Thank you, Mr. Otten, for your support in this. Good. Let's see. The only thing that is being disrupted is our economy and its prosperity. And soon the European Commission will come back to our door again, this time for a new solidarity fund, to be filled by the CO levy. There is a good chance that the polish will mainly go to Eastern Europe, because those peat stoves there have to go to the dirt. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We are being lied and deceived, and with this malpractice our prosperity is being cut short. Green is the new red. Green looks friendly, but is a tough instrument of global socialism which will eventually degenerate into global communism. And, history shows us where that leads. SP's colleagues will be able to laugh. They won't have much trouble if they don't have anything at all later, but the PVV Group is very concerned about this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Then I give the floor to Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The judge's ruling had to remind the State that it does not fulfil its obligations to reduce the COte in accordance with its own commitments and the international commitments we have entered into under the Paris Agreement. The Urgendavonnis again showed that objectives of government policy and implementation are often very far apart. The proposal before us is an attempt to reach the CO reduction agreements. The proposal was intended to enter into force on 1 January 2021. It's gonna be six months later. What does this mean for getting the appointments? I am asking this all the more so because the Council of State has already recommended extending the deadline for this legislative proposal, otherwise it would be completely impossible to achieve the results required by 2025. What is the timetable and what measures should be included, I ask the Secretary of State. I also ask the Secretary of State to respond to the new course of Urgenda to the judge. How do you judge it? Let me leave it at that. I understand the cabinet's disappointed in that. We certainly do not need to weaken the position of the State in this debate, but I would like to know from the Secretary of State what further measures it will take. I ask this all the more because the EU has further strengthened its 2030 targets. In the electoral programmes of parties from which a government is to be formed, this is taken over by almost all. We do not yet have a government agreement, let alone a government, but it is clear that much still needs to be done to achieve the revised objectives. In view of the EU objectives accepted by our country too, much remains to be done. I spoke about this last week and this morning, and I also announced this morning that I would talk about it this afternoon. It is our firm belief that this will require a strong hydrogen agenda in order to green the large industrial companies, heavy transport and shipping. We also talked about chemistry last week, but also about the Dutch international position as a gas roundabout country with a large network of gas pipes that can be reused. This could also mean a great deal in terms of trade and employment. Last week, the Secretary of State referred to a letter she sent to the House of Representatives. If I read it, I'd be back on my feet. I read that one again. The letter contains many intentions, but the letter is also very little concrete. I understand by now that there will be a national hydrogen agenda. Can you tell me when it can be discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u12	I have a question for Mr Pijlman of D66. We are talking today about reducing the production of energy by coal. At the same time, in the Netherlands, we have a huge number of power plants burning trees, namely biomass plants. How do you stand in relation to this proposal? Shouldn't we stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u13	I'm here to talk about biofuel. We also had a debate on this this morning. In general, we believe that biofuels are needed in the energy transition. But I also said this morning that I really see it as a transition fuel, as a transition solution. It's not a definitive solution. Hydrogen could be. That is precisely why this plea is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u14	That's clear. How long do you see that transition period? How much longer do we have to burn trees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u15	We weren't talking about trees this morning. We have had this debate here before. You have to be totally careful with that. You should also be careful with crops that affect agricultural land. But then there's still a lot of what you could use. But again, we need it. We also agreed in the Climate Agreement, but we must be extremely careful about it. I'll share that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u16	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u17	I was at hydrogen. The countries around us are investing billions. Let us try to maintain our good starting position as a gas country, and now as a hydrogen country. This can mean a lot for our country's employment and international trade. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the reduction in coal capacity provided for in this proposal has our approval. We want to get rid of the coal plants as quickly as possible, preferably within a few years. The same applies to the newest power stations. When these were built, it was assumed that the CO could be stored on land. That became impossible after failed experiments. That gives us every reason to look at it again. We can justify the proposal for compensation for the companies you are doing. We assume that this will be done in all reasonable terms. We also know, by the way, that there are a lot of lawsuits already going on. So it's not easy, but it has to be a real fair balance. Companies have their responsibility, but the State and the licence holder also have a responsibility in this regard, so we assume that there will be fair compensation. In this respect, it is important to note that the ETS price for CO2 emissions has increased significantly, which, of course, affects the business cases of the Dutch coal plants. I assume that the rising ETS price will be taken into account in the design of the disadvantage compensation. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The government is proposing a maximum of 35% of the total quantity in full production. Have you also considered going to 25%? Yes, by the way, you say in the underlying documents. Only you say that there is one power station that absolutely cannot do that, hence the present proposal. My question is what then has been that consideration? Would it have been possible to speed up the closure of the single power station? Why is the proposal before us better than the one we have just mentioned? In other words, what is the outcome of the call for proposal, which you have also launched, in order to speed up the closure of one or two plants? Indeed, Delft's investigation shows that this would not make any difference to the security of supply. I hope you can inform us about that call for proposal. Finally, the biomass supplement. The Eemscentrum wants to maintain some of its production by adding more biomass. What is the status of the authorisation? Does the government have the possibility not to grant the licence without financial compensation? In the note following the report, you state that you are not aware of whether other power stations have applied for it. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if he still is. What's the latest on that? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u18	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mr Van der Linden, on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention today a bizarre paradox in today's climate debate, namely that today we are talking on the one hand about speeding up the closure of state-of-the-art coal plants to reduce CO emissions, and on the other hand, massive and increasing energy production based on cutting and burning millions of trees, namely biomass. If you look at the chimney pipe of a coal power station, you will see a lot of smoke clouds coming out of it. Everyone understands that this is not directly conducive to the environment. Every normal person who looks at the chimney pipe of a biomass plant comes to the same conclusion, because it also sees huge smoke clouds coming out of it, so he understands that also that is not directly conducive to the environment. And now the paradox is coming up with a reasoning that only politicians could come up with. The smoke that comes from the pipe of that coal plant, by burning coal, is bad for the climate, and the smoke that comes from the same pipe of that biomass plant, by burning trees, is good for the climate. That is not a joke, that is the prevailing policy view in today's politics. The emissions look the same, comes from the same chimney pipe and is dirty, but for the climate it makes a world of difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u20	You know that CO comes from coal, from CO stored millions of years ago, from plants underground. Short-term biomass CO has only recently been absorbed by the plants. So basically CO is from biomass solidified solar energy. So if you throw a twig on the ground now, it'll be digested in ten years, and all the CO2 of that twig will be in the air. That is a short-term cycle. So you have to have a short-term cycle, at most ten years. Of course, you don't have to cut down a hundred-year-old tree. But short-term biomass will also become CO2.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u21	What's your question, Mr. Crone? This is an interesting college, but this is still early in the term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u22	The question was: what is the difference between CO from coal and CO from biomass? I'm asking if he can endorse this analysis, because this is just simple biology.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u23	I am pleased that Mr Crone fully endorses my reasoning, that this is a reasoning that only politicians come up with here. I totally disagree with the premise that there would be some kind of CO-climate cycle and payback time. I shall come back to that in a moment in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u24	You can't simply...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u25	Whoa, whoa, Mr Crone, I haven't given you the floor yet. I am waiting for Mr Van der Linden to speak and then we will see if it might be better to wait until he continues his speech, because he will come back to your question, I understand. Mr. Van der Linden wasn't ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u26	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u27	By now, are you ready? Then I suggest that we wait until Mr Van der Linden comes back to the point of your question. He just announced he'd come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u28	I will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u29	I'm sure he'll come back to it. I suggest we wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u30	However, I note that we differ politically on the sustainability of the burning of trees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u31	That's not illegal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u32	The only reason why that smoke of burnt trees would be good for the climate is because it was agreed by politics. It is an international political agreement in the Paris agreement and the Netherlands follows: CO emissions from tree burning are needed to achieve climate goals. To agree that burning trees is necessary to achieve climate goals is as if you go to the dietician and agree that daily drinking cans of coke is necessary to lose weight. This is exactly how it works with the emission of smoke from wood burning. It is there, everyone sees it, everyone notices it, everyone smells it, but we agree it doesn't count. It is bizarre that this is the starting point of government policy. I do not know a Dutchman, except perhaps Mr Crone, who understands that. I do not understand why parties supporting the Climate Agreement accept this and do not intervene. What kind of counterpower? You stand by and you look at how the cutting and burning of trees is regarded as good for the climate. Mr. Chairman. Allow me to explain the reasoning behind this and what we just had a little debate on. That reasoning is that tree burning would make climate neutral, which, by the way, I do not share. That reasoning is that we cut and burn perfectly healthy trees, that new trees are planted for them, and that those trees then take up CO that compensates for the burning during the 40 or 50 years that they grow again. It would have been possible to create a sustainable cycle, the so-called CO-neutrality, from behind the desk of a lobbyist. This reasoning is ridiculous. In fact, that is my opinion, it is an insult to common sense. Because if you are already following this reasoning, why shouldn't we especially plant a lot of new trees to compensate for, for example, the emissions of coal? Everyone gets cheerful from trees and nobody I know gets cheerful from cutting and burning trees on an industrial scale for the climate. The second critical point about the payback period of cut trees is the long duration. I also had a question for Mr Pijlman. In the 40 to 50 years that trees are going to absorb the CO that is now released when we burn them, can't we easily build many nuclear power plants? This is a clean, reliable and highly efficient way of energy supply. How can it be that climate fanatics find building nuclear power plants too long to save the climate, while those same people accept that the CO payback time by burning trees, 40 or 50 or perhaps 100 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u33	Yes, against the danger that we will repeat last week's debate when we also talked about nuclear power plants. It is not so easy to build nuclear power plants, even if they are not Category 4 but Category 3 nuclear power plants. At that time, I mentioned ten examples, in Europe and the United States, where that has got out of hand, where tens of billions of public money have been wasted and where they are still not going. I am absolutely not opposed to nuclear energy in principle, but it is too easy to pretend that this is a very easy alternative. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u34	So you don't have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u35	But that's what my interruption was all about. It's not a very easy alternative. I think the choice is easy. I just asked you at the interrupting microphone how long that transition period is. I now point out that biomass, such as wood burning, is sustainable, because the CO would have been recouped in 40 to 50 years. My reasoning then is: at that time it must be possible to achieve a number of nuclear power stations. So if you think it is a bridging period, then we could also use that period to build nuclear power plants and, above all, plant a lot of trees, but not burn them anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u36	Thank you. Short interruptions, please, with brief answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u37	But you still do not deal with the problems of nuclear energy. That is precisely why it has been said that we also need biomass. By the way, that is different from massive tree cutting, see this morning's debate. Hopefully it'll be temporary, as short as possible. That's why I'm pleading for hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u38	Do you have a short question, Mr Pijlman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u39	It's an answer to a question. Do not put nuclear energy at all, as if it is a simple choice, because it is not. I'd like to give that to you. And I'm not even talking about the garbage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u40	Please continue, Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u41	The choice is very simple, but we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u42	Can I ask Members not to hold the debate in the Chamber from their seats? The reason for this is that people who want to follow this debate from elsewhere will not be able to follow it. Constitutionally, this is a public debate. So people need to be able to follow it. From the room shouting things to the speaker or to each other, is therefore not the way to do it. The request is not to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u43	This brings me to the present bill. The Climate Act and its climate targets require a hard CO reduction. Urgenda is suing the State in the public interest because the State does not achieve those goals. Urgenda's pretty successful at that. As a result of the Urgenda ruling, today a bill is before us with a lucrative and ill-thought-out emergency grip, namely the emergency grip to accelerate the reduction of the production of coal energy. The state-of-the-art coal power plants are only allowed to operate at 35% of their maximum capacity while they are just a few years open. I would like to put the law into the argument I have just made about burning trees, and to quote the following facts: 1. We still have 4 state-of-the-art, efficient coal power stations in the Netherlands. 2. 219 plants are operating in the Netherlands, burning trees on an industrial scale. 3. A further 153 trees incineration plants are planned. In total, these are 372 pieces. 4. We are subsidising this tree burning with huge amounts of money, with billions. 5. The law to speed up the closure of coal power stations also costs us billions. 6. The conversion of coal plants to tree-burning plants leads to more emissions. The generation of electricity in small tree-burning plants produces up to 20% more carbon dioxide emissions, but that does not count as fine dust and nitrogen than a coal-fired power station. As far as we are concerned, the conclusion is therefore simple. Those who are concerned with the climate, with the environment, with nature, with biodiversity and with our prosperity, today speak out against this law, which is all aimed at stopping the industrial burning of trees. That is the logical choice, and to underline that choice, exceptionally already in the first period, I shall table a motion. That is the motion for a resolution, 'Boom combustion for industrial energy generation is a sin'. The: Mr Van der Linden, Mr Nanninga, Mr Berkhout, Mr Van Pareren and Mr Beuker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy production is carried out on an industrial scale in the Netherlands on the basis of the combustion of cut-off trees;]] [[Whereas large-scale cutting of trees for industrial combustion in power plants cannot be justified in terms of environmental, climate, nature and biodiversity policies;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to make every effort to stop industrial energy production on the basis of cut-off trees as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u44	Then I'll end with a wise quote. "Cooling plants run for a reason. We need energy. If you want to shut down coal power plants, you have to have a plan. It doesn't make any sense." This quote comes from former VVD-Second MP Dilan Yeşilgöz, recorded on 20 December 2018 on Radio 1. Today, as Secretary of State, she is defending the further closure of coal power stations, just like that, without a plan. I note that it is topical this week that things can go weird. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u45	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I now give the floor to Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party. Mr. Van der Linden, I see now that your motion was not signed. For the Acts, let me see if the submission of the motion is adequately supported. That is indeed the case. I shall now give the floor to Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the Secretary of State. Fortunately, there are also many quotes from after 2018 with a different meaning. The point made by Mrs Faber is important. Indeed, we are not the opposition party on this point. We are also speaking on behalf of the Green Left opposition to climate policy, because otherwise there is no majority in this Chamber either. That is because there is a real problem. This morning it was pointed out once again that the Netherlands is absolutely not a forerunner, but a straggler. They've just been asked to comment on it. I also ask the Secretary of State: how is the Netherlands going to make it easier for us, not only with regard to the Urgenda agreement, but also with regard to other countries? Climate is an international problem. If we are left behind, we cannot ask other countries to lead the way. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the careful answer to the written questions. We support these measures, because they are also inevitable for achieving the climate objectives. At the same time, it is also complicated for companies, because the policy is being adapted. That's finding a balance. A limitation to 35% of your production capacity is not nothing. However, we have already said in the plenary debate in 2019 that coal use is a sector with a high entrepreneurial risk. The energy companies are very large energy companies in this case... have a lot of knowledge of everything and everyone in the market. We know that. It is not just small SMEs that are being guided. They also have a very wide and diverse range of productions. They've got gas. They're durable. They have brown coal. They have coal. They have therefore deliberately chosen coal as part of their package. Of course, they knew like no other in previous roles I even had them at my table a lot. You can also choose a wrong scenario and they have chosen a wrong scenario. I would almost quote Schumpeter: they suffer from the creative destruction. We also didn't stop the stone age because the stones were gone, but because there was a better technology. That is also the case here. They just gambled on the wrong technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u47	I do wonder whether the PvdA colleague is aware of the fact that a D66 minister, Brinkhorst, had just issued an invitation to build coal power stations. The economy had to be provided with cheap and stable energy supplies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u48	The opinions are divided, but I have also experienced that discussion myself. Since 1994, the energy sector itself has called for a diversified package. Even in 1994, they wanted to build coal power plants. Then it was nuclear power stations, but they were postponed by Chernobyl. So it makes sense for the sector to ask that. The Minister has said: come forward with proposals, if you will. That was, of course, also the Minister for the operation of the market. In the market, you have to choose for yourself. The company also did not ask for any consideration in terms of subsidies, guarantees to remain open, or whatever. They didn't ask for that either for gas or for other things, so it's the entrepreneurial risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u49	It is now said that opinions are divided, but the former Minister, Mr Brinkhorst of D66, did ask for this at the time. That's just a fact. That's not an opinion, is it? Then we can't just say: it's all business risk, and so on, and so on. Actually, you're just implying that we have an unreliable government. That is not only the case today, but it has been the case in the past. If we keep this up, there won't be a company that wants to work for us anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u50	There has been a discussion to diversify. That was also said by Brinkhorst. After that, however, companies have to choose whether to get in. If they don't think they're gonna make a profit on that, then they should ask if they're gonna get a grant or anything else. They didn't ask, or at least they didn't. Then it is ultimately just entrepreneurial risk, given the existing legislation. This is how it is regulated in the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u51	Is Mr Crone aware of the phenomenon of political risk? I thought Mr Crone was an economist. That is what is being greatly increased here. I say this in line with what the previous speaker said. You are invited by the government, by a minister of D66, to build a coal power plant. You're investing billions in a brand-new coal power plant. All this is done on the basis of business cases of 20 or 30 years of age. Contracts are concluded with large customers for that kind of time-limits. Then the government says, "We're gonna change the law and look at it." Then, as far as the Netherlands is concerned, there will be a political risk for investors. Then we go to countries like Argentina, where the government decides differently every day. How do you see that? This is not good for our locational climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u52	Of course there is a political risk. In any country you invest in, circumstances can change. If you invest in a country, you can say I'm not taking the risk. You can also say: I ask the government in advance for compensation for that risk, in the form of subsidy, or whatever. None of that happened. Then all that remains is entrepreneurial risk. That's true in all these countries. You can't ask the government for a risk cover in advance. You can ask for it, but if you don't get it, you can't claim it. This is happening in all sectors, as in the automotive industry, and you name it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u53	Yes, but this is a very long-term investment, including the security of supply of electricity and so on. So Mr Crone is actually saying: okay, we're just gonna flip everything around and we're gonna accept that investors are gonna have to deal with some sort of Argentine political risk. Those people got in because they thought there was a trustworthy, solid government here that you could make good deals with. It turns out that changed in retrospect. So there are consequences. Then investors will find another country and then they'll pass our door in the future, Mr. Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u54	There are two simple points. The government never said you should do it. You would have a point anyway. The government has just said: we invite you, but if you don't, then it's good. The second point is that the company itself did not ask for guarantees. Then they could have claimed it. The third point is that the government is now obliged to consider whether compensation should be given or not. That's what I'll be back for later. Of course, that's always the case. If the government does something unsuspecting and you are harmed by government policy, then you are entitled to compensation for damages, whether it is about building a shed or a large plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u55	I understand you'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u56	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u57	Then I suggest we wait and see. Is that okay, Mr. Otten? Go ahead, Mr. Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u58	In this case, it's very clear. So we're not quitting coal because we're out of coal. The whole world is building coal. This is an autonomous trend and this trend has been going on for a long time, even before this legislation came into force. This means that companies have deliberately opted for a risk. That would have been either a huge asset or they were now a bacon buyer or a huge liability. It's obvious, because in an article from two years ago, Follow the Money revealed that they knew exactly what was happening in the boardroom, Mr. Otten. They knew there were business risks. They thought you didn't have to pay for the CO2 emissions. That has changed: they have to pay for it. That was a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u59	Mr. Crone claims that the whole world is cutting down with coal power plants. Do you know how many coal power stations are on the role of China?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u60	Yeah, and I also know they're finishing the program. But it's not zero yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u61	No, but how many are there? I'd like to help you because I imagine you don't know the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u62	I follow those numbers pretty well, but I know the whole world has its emissions targets. China is lagging behind in that, but it's going to speed that up and then they're gonna wrap it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u63	But then your statement is not correct that the whole world is phasing out, because China is going to build 1,171 coal power stations. Of these, 80% are in China and 20% abroad. It's probably in Africa or something. You shouldn't be saying that the whole world is cutting down, because that's bullshit. I'll tell you through the chairman. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u64	Thank you. Please continue your argument, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u65	The total capacity in the Western world is being reduced with CO policy and market forces. That is not my choice at all, but that is the choice of the market. A second error of assessment has been made. It was thought that the market prices of energy were going to rise, but that did not happen. Again, there was just an entrepreneurial risk. In addition, alternative fuels such as gas and sustainably became cheaper. The third thing they thought was we're gonna do CCS. But they also did not make any contractual agreements with the government. That was a wish and they didn't, so they can't avoid CO emissions by putting it under the ground either. That was three miscalculations. On top of that, they have been exempt from the coal tax for five years. All in all, it is not an economical package for them, but in the total portfolio of the total industry it is not that crazy. If the government comes up with accelerated legislation, then the government must realize that it needs to provide further compensation. See Article 1 of the first ECHR Protocol. But I wonder if that is the case here, so I ask the Secretary of State to comment on it. If you're left with 35% of your capacity and you're already in a shrinking market, which means you're already gonna lose, then we don't have to offer loss compensation for a market that was already at a loss. Then I do know more sectors where the government should take action and not just by corona. Here comes a competitor on the market. Is that a reason for the government to cover the entrepreneurial risk? Would it not be prudent if the state now said that this was a gamble, an entrepreneurial risk, and so we did not receive the question of further compensation? In any case, if we are to receive compensation, I am glad that it has been said in the House of Representatives that that is not a blank cheque. We have budgetary law, so we get a backup in the House of Representatives on what rules will apply to the loss compensation. I ask the Secretary of State that we should also be given a backseat for the compensation, so that we too can look in advance, from our budgetary law and from the business case, what parameters will apply. The Secretary of State and her predecessors have promised, also in the written reply, that there may also be a recalculation so that we can see afterwards that not too much has been given. That seems desirable to me, but I do have the question of whether this is legally sustainable, because sometimes it has to be known in advance. There is also a Brussels test on it. When I look at Mr. Van Ballekom, I always think: oh yes, Brussels. But in this case, of course, that is right. Is a recalculation also legally sustainable? Mr. Chairman. We welcome the amendment aimed at giving the coal fund a legal basis, because the energy transition can then go hand in hand with social solutions for workers in this sector, as happened in Amsterdam. Of course, it has far-reaching consequences, not only for the entrepreneur, but also for the employees. I would like to ask whether you can already provide a progress report on the situation with regard to the specific plans for this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a point that is close to Mr Van der Linden. It is, of course, a shame to close down the most modern power stations here and continue to win lignite and even lignite in Germany. Villages literally go for that against the plain. By the way, we also have groundwater damage in the Netherlands. That is part of the international CO accounting system, because we have to shrink by CO and they seem to have the phasing-out until 2038. I'm saying that out of my head. But I've read now that Germany wants to phase out faster with lignite. But of course it would be even better if we kept our coal plants open a little longer and they closed down the lignite plants. This does not fit in with the European accounting system, but I imagine that if you agree with your colleagues and with Mrs Merkel, and then we would talk to Frans Timmermans, he would like it. In any case, you will have achieved a faster reduction in CO2 emissions at global level. You have to arrange that in terms of CO2, and you have to settle the costs of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u66	Last week, I argued that you should shut down the dirtiest power stations instead of the cleanest. It is a great pleasure for me that that awareness has now also fallen with the GroenLinks/PvdA merger party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u67	I said this in 2019, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u68	I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u69	But we just heard from Mrs Faber how many coal plants there are in China. Does Mr Crone know how high China's CO emissions are?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u70	I call Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u71	Per capita emissions are still lower than ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u72	10,000 megatons. Yeah, but the Chinese are with a few more people, too. But 10,000 megatons are a quarter of global CO emissions per year. It's mostly because of those coal plants there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u73	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u74	Our coal plants have a 47% return. That's the highest rate of return in the world. Isn't it madness if we shut down those power stations here, while we leave dirty power station with a 30% efficiency and lignite plants open? It's not wise to do it that way, is it? That's not wise for ourselves, and the world isn't gonna make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u75	In China, per capita emissions are much lower than ours. And we cannot say to the Chinese: you must now have less wealth and less energy, because we are not prepared to go back. We need a fair-share distribution. All countries are entitled to CO emissions. That doesn't have to be all the same. But that we are not prepared to go back, we cannot say to the Chinese. We can say to developing countries: we are helping you with the transition. That's the point about China. The other point is that of Germany. I asked Mr Wiebes here in 2019. He said: yes, I actually think that is a good idea. So my question to the Secretary of State is: what has Mr Wiebes done about this? And is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss this with Germany, with the new Minister, the former Foreign Minister, Mr Blok? And if we can also settle it with China: be my guest. But let us start in Europe, because then we can at least make a big profit for Europe's emission ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u76	I conclude that Mr Crone wants the Netherlands to be a sort of guide country. "Let's start by shutting down our most modern power stations, and then we hope that those dirty power stations will shut down elsewhere." That is of course a bit of the reverse world, but well, Mr Crone is a supporter of Schumpeter. This is a very interesting form of "creative destruction." You start with the destruction in your own country, and then you hope someone else follows the right example. I'm a little skeptical about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u77	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u78	I would also like to come back to the debate I just had with Mr Crone. The law that has already been passed states that coal power plants will be closed by 2030 at the latest. Today we are in the process of applying further reductions, up to 35% capacity. I was just making a speech about biomass. Does Mr Crone not think that we should say: no more burning trees until 2030? Let's just say we're all just gonna plant new trees and we're not burning trees anymore. Wouldn't it make much more sense to have that bridge built in that way? Surely that would be much more logical than what is happening now, namely to pay billions more for even faster closures of those plants? Shouldn't we just stick those billions into planting trees? Because planting trees makes one cheerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u79	I believe that, under the leadership of Europe, we already have a huge programme for planting trees. At least I hear Frans Timmermans talk about this very often in the media. We plant a lot of trees, and that's fantastic. We're not gonna burn those trees either, at most the twigs that fall off of them. Otherwise, that CO will be in the air in ten years. Those trees take COop and capture it. So that's fantastic. And they do that all over the world. Two. I was just suggesting something, but I understand the enormous confusion. I'll give you a point, and then it won't be right again. I say, of course, we must keep this open as much as possible if it is efficient. But if that costs us CO-credits, we're not gonna make it to our CO-ceilings. And that, of course, is what needs to be done. The CO ceilings of Europe as a whole must be lowered, and of course we want them to go down worldwide. If this is more efficient, both in terms of CO emissions and costs, then we will. So I'm surprised if you didn't support me in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mr Crone. Mr. Van der Linden, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u81	Then why do you think that coal emissions count for that credit and not the burning of trees? Why don't we just get off that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u82	Mr Crone, and then I go to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u83	You blame me on the one hand for changing the rules of the game, and now you want to do it yourself. Because these are just the rules of the game that have been in place since Kyoto. I was there by chance, but apart from that: they can be changed, but it is not yet that far. What is happening is that all of Europe, the Netherlands first, wants stricter targets for biomass, for which I would have liked to say a few words in the debate on the interruption. I refer to the ESC opinion on the criteria for certified biomass. Then we're not gonna burn any more trees, and that's gotta stop, too. The government has also agreed to the phasing-out programme. So we're building up, and the only thing we're burning is residuals, and even better is the second generation of biofuels, so you can turn it into green gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u84	Thank you. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u85	I'm getting a little confused. That's why I'd like to ask you a little bit of clarity. Do I understand that Mr Crone, on behalf of the Labour Party and the GroenLinks, is calling for a reduction in CO by considerably reducing these coal power stations? What we then lack with biomass would then have to be replenished, because that does not count. In other words, we still have those CO emissions. And then you say, of course, that these coal plants have started to run less, so that is what we are paying for loss compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u86	Actually, I'm following the bill to a great extent: we're quitting those coals to 35%, and then you're also gonna have less CO emissions. That's the main thing. We are not going to co-incinerate any extra biomass, because there is a phasing-out programme. So I am not going to argue for extra biomass, let alone in these plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u87	That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u88	No, as Mr Wiebes has already said, there is a phasing-out programme, partly out of legal certainty about subsidies and otherwise. In addition, we now have these new developments and much stronger eco-labels, which Europe is also on. As has already been said last week, I believe that a new package of criteria will come from Brussels on 14 July. Then you can only use biomass, whether it is for incineration or otherwise, which meets the highest environmental requirements. Still, we're not there, because if the whole world does biomass, we don't have enough biomass, and then you get to mix smart/cunning again and stuff like that. So we are far from there yet, but short-cycle biomass is indispensable and is not a bad thing, because it is natural waste. Otherwise it will perish in nature and the CO will also be in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u89	Perhaps Mr Crone could explain how to compensate for the loss of capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u90	I understand from the last written answers that we received last week, or when was it that the capacity loss was not so great? The Netherlands is even going to be a power exporter again, even if the coal plants close, because we have a huge capacity, with windmills and solar power added. Overall the capacity remains more than large enough, because we go from import to export country. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if I can see that correctly. There is no risk to capacity in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u91	We're gonna hear that later today. Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u92	Finally, Mr President. If Mr Crone believes and takes over from the cabinet, let him support the fact that biomass is no longer being burned, because that is clearly no longer necessary if we already have excess capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u93	That is why I keep repeating: there is a phasing-out programme for biomass. We don't have to worry about that anymore. It could have been quicker, but that was decided, so is the majority. There is also a legally reliable government behind this, because these subsidies have been promised and promised. That's what we all say. I am in favour of accelerated phasing-out, but that is not the issue right now. You are also right: this means that entrepreneurs could have long known that it would no longer be profitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u94	Then Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u95	Yes, then I also have a question for Mr Crone who is building on it. Because if he is planning to burn biomass to compensate for that 2.2 gigawatt, is Mr Crone of the opinion that, in addition to the more than 300 biomass plants in the Netherlands that are already there, there are enough twigs and nut shells left to produce that 2.2 gigawatt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u96	No, it's not enough for that. But it's also a shame if we don't use it. Countless calculations have been made about the amount of biomass available. This morning, too, we discussed the incorporation of cars in the debate. That is why I also said: in the end there is an infinite demand for biomass, whether you gas it or burn it, because the houses and so on want to be heated with it. And we're short on biomass. That is why you need to be so sharp, not only on the criteria, but also on enforcement. 'Cause it's cheap to mix smart, cunning. That is why biomass alone is not enough and we have the mix of biomass, sun, wind and above all energy savings. That's the biggest winner in the sustainability discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u97	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u98	Yes, Mr. President, with all these interruptions, I will be done much faster than you would have dreamed. I would like to conclude with that proposal for consultation with Germany. I know that this is being discussed in the Bundestag elections, because there too, of course, it is miserable that lignite mining costs villages, affects nature and is bad in terms of CO. There must be a real, social basis to be found. So they won't do that before the Bundestag elections. Nor should it delay what we are doing here. Of course, the power stations are still open until 2030, if the entrepreneurs want to. I can also tell you here that I spoke with Uniper. I think you should always be in touch with the people we're talking about. They also say: you may say that you have spoken with us and we are open to it. Of course, that is not a commitment, because they do not know what can happen at that point in the group. But in their package of sun, wind, gas, coal and lignite, there might be a good deal to make that I could call a win-win situation. As I said, I think Frans Timmermans as chief also thinks: well, this is a good example, let more countries do this. Maybe Germany can do it with Poland on the other hand. I believe that this is an optimal, cost-effective solution for maximum CO reduction. Then we don't have to cook extra biomass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u99	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman. It seems to me that the first debate of the Secretary of State in this house last week has been so good to her that she could not wait for a quick follow-up. So again, Secretary of State, welcome. Thank you also for the answers given during the written preparation. You should not blame me for asking a few questions again. I do not understand all the answers as well. That is not up to you or your official staff; that is more up to me. The Secretary of State has expressed the wish to deal quickly with the law in order to allow production restrictions to enter into force as soon as possible. However, if I understand correctly, the limitation of production can only be effective if there is agreement on the methodology of disadvantage compensation. I do not think that accepting this law before the recess has any direct influence on that, but you correct me if I have not understood correctly. Can the Secretary of State make it clear at what time there will be more information on this methodology, whether it is already clear what the informal talks with the European Commission have resulted in and when the Council of State will be asked for advice? Answering the questions on this subject suggests that the methodology is already known, because there is talk of an objective determination of the disadvantage based on current market expectations. I refer to the amendment of Article 4 (3) to which reference is made on the suspensive effect. It is only obvious as long as there is no agreement. But, bearing this in mind, would it not be better for all the parties involved to have everything entered at the same time, I ask the Secretary of State. This also has the advantage that this Chamber has a full understanding of the final extent of the compensation at the time of the adoption of the law. In this context, some political groups are talking about avoiding the issue of a blank cheque. In general, I also have problems with issuing such blank cheques, also from the point of view of the Court's budget law. Mr. Chairman. This is not the case, but if, from the outset, it was clear to all parties that coal power stations should only become operational if they were clean and economical, it is strange that the minister of the Secretary of State, Mr Brinkhorst, was the initiator and that the licences were issued. At least, in my opinion, the concepts of 'clean' and 'efficient' cannot be interpreted in the same way as at the time. You can't blame a company for that. In this context, may I ask the Secretary of State for the exact definition of "clean and economical" as laid down in the permit? I'm not asking for this to be teased, but it's crucial that the government is a reliable partner. This applies, of course, to all public transactions, but certainly also to the issue of energy supply. Crucial not only for the climate but also for the economic climate and citizens' well-being. At the point of biomass. How much biomass needs to be co-fired in order to absorb the ban on coal is for the operator, it is said in the government's replies. Personally, I think that's a little too short. Is it known whether there are any alternatives to operators? In all likelihood, the operator has concluded supply contracts to which he considers himself bound. The VVD recognises the need for this emergency measure, as it is clearly stated that all the alternatives that have been reviewed do not lead to sufficient short-term CO reduction. In short, it seems that there are no other solutions. Personally, I had put some hope on CCS or CCUS, utilities. This is not a financially attractive alternative to current ETS prices, but these prices are rising significantly and are structurally at a much higher level than when we discussed this issue at the end of 2019. With the subsidies provided or provided in the use of biomass in mind, it might have been more possible to facilitate this too. For the sake of clarity, we are primarily concerned with the reduction of CO and how it is achieved is actually secondary. As long as a method is chosen which is the least violent to the Dutch economy. In last week's debate on wind energy at sea, as you can remember, my group advocated a good balance between non-regulatory and regulatory energy, including nuclear energy. I wasn't going to do that debate all over again. You can read it all back, or even see it again, but it is of course an illusion, Mr. Pijlman, to think that you can get a hydrogen economy off the ground without using nuclear technology. Once again, I said that last week, no form of energy production has any advantages. They all have an advantage and they all have a disadvantage, including nuclear energy, also wind energy, also solar energy and also the use of biomass, at least in a certain form. In conclusion, Mr President. My group agrees that the present law does not affect prices for businesses and households, nor does it affect security of supply, at least from the answers given, which are somewhat inflammable. The Secretary of State will probably be able to confirm this impression in full. If so, my group agrees. As has already been said, my group is in favour of a better alternative. The question remains: do we do so now or do we do so when the methodology for the loss compensation is known, with the associated costs. The answer to the questions on this point is crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u101	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u102	Do I understand correctly that the VVD, through Mr Van Ballekom, actually says: well, it's not all that smart, but we've gone down this path, so we have to do that too? That is a bit of the reasoning that I can see from your speech. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u103	We are faced with a court ruling and I believe that we should respect judicial decisions, either left or right. If it can't go left, it'll have to go right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u104	However, that judgment is the result of failing legislation. The judge takes that space because the laws offer that space. At the time, a much better legislative process should have been launched by the cabinet. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u105	I don't know if it's just failing legislation. Perhaps it is because we have had the luxury of discovering gas in Groningen, so we have not built nuclear power plants and we now have a transitional problem. We can solve this transition problem if we want to promote a very wide range of energy supplies without any taboo. And that must also be facilitated. This can only be facilitated by a reliable government, otherwise there will be no private investor who wants to participate. And then Leiden is not only in trouble but all of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u106	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u107	I fully agree with Mr Van Ballekom. I have already urged Mr Crone to do so. But how do you assess the state's action by first encouraging the construction of modern coal power stations and then saying that they should be closed again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u108	I could have addressed that very strongly, but we had a very wide-ranging debate in December 2019, as you can remember. I have also questioned the Secretary of State on this point, namely what is the difference between what was clean and economical at the time of Mr Brinkhorst and what is now clean and economical and what is included in the permits relating to those concepts. That's what I'm waiting for the answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u109	Thank you. Mr Dessing has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u110	Thank you, Mr President. This afternoon, like this morning, we are discussing a law which must be dealt with urgently before 1 July. Because we need to hurry with the energy transition. Why? Well, otherwise, according to Brussels and the judge in the Urgenda judgment, there will be a disaster. What exactly disaster do we not know? It can't be the rise in sea level, because it's a stable 2 millimeter. So in 100 years, that's only 20 centimeters. We'll have to prepare for that, but don't rush it. Anyway, Brussels, Urgenda, the judge wants us to let the state-of-the-art coal plants run less. Actually, on average, only a third of the time or a third of the capacity. And then we produce 2.2 gigawatts of electricity less per year. That is twice as much as all existing offshore wind farms are currently producing. And do we have to use less power? No. According to all predictions, all end-users together use at least as much power as they do now until 2030, and in some places even more. Last week, the municipality of Amsterdam asked the Empire for help. There's a power shortage. In parts of North, the maximum capacity of the network has already been reached and in the western port area this will soon be the case. Do we remember how a coal power station, the Hemwegcentrale, was closed in 2020? Then there was that reason for a party, more than a year later there is a cry for help. Mr. Chairman. We're in the middle of a transition, an energy transition. In Dutch that's just a transition. When moving from one to another, you must act wisely and, above all, not rush. Let's try a little bit first. The simplest transition is from an old pair of shoes to a new pair of shoes. You'll have to do it gradually. You shouldn't be walking the first day with your new shoes right away. However, this unnecessarily high speed used in the energy transition by setting thoughtlessly high targets that must be achieved at all costs, exactly what goes wrong and exactly what should stop the First Chamber, the Chambre de réflexion, but it appears that there is little need for that. In order to speed up, we have to close stable coal power plants, and therefore foreign lignite power plants, which emit a lot of CO2, and gas plants, which emit less CO2. But the latter have a limited production, which is only needed in the off-peak hours. Without wind and electricity, these power stations are asking for the top price, while the majority of citizens' energy bills are already made up of all kinds of charges. That expensive power is becoming an ever worse product. It becomes unreliable, intermittent current. Power that sometimes is and sometimes isn't, and not when it's dark and there's no wind blowing. More money for wiggle flow than for stable flow; that is the outcome of hasty policy. Then the networks need to be expanded unnecessarily in order to be able to pass on that wobble flow. Billions need network administrators like Stedin, Alliander and Enexis to deliver poorer quality power. This law hurts on all sides and costs a lot of money. Citizens are already burdened by the rise in prices due to the CO-compensation of consumers. Natural gas is already twice as expensive in the Netherlands as in neighbouring countries, except for industry. Mr. Chairman. I said it last week, and I'm telling you now, what are we doing right now? We have allowed ourselves to be maneuvered into the situation that the judge could pronounce the Urgenda judgment by committing ourselves to a much too strict CO standard, by wanting to go too far on the Brussels leash. But we've ended up in a trap that we seem to have stopped coming out of. In any case, our group will do everything possible to continue to denounce non-realistic implementing laws of the energy transition. An energy transition that the voter has never been allowed to speak directly about. The Netherlands is being made a country with unstable electricity supplies. Something we previously only saw in developing countries. We'll find out in time. For now, let us at least make the financial pain clear; the short-term pain. To that end, I have two questions for the Secretary of State. How much are the costs of the energy transition for the taxpayer this year, next year and the following year? And what are the total cost of implementing this law for citizens and for industry? Our group awaits with interest the response of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u111	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u112	Mr. Chairman. When I examined the proposed legislative amendment, I was confronted with a number of inconsistencies in the debate on reducing CO emissions. By law, the Netherlands has decided to close all our coal plants in the short term. My group also voted in favour of this law. Although these are plants that are among the most modern in the world and emit relatively less CO than many other plants abroad, we have to start somewhere. My group, too, wants to get rid of the coal fire worldwide. Because of the CO reduction, to which the Netherlands has committed itself and to which the judge had to remind us, the Secretary of State proposes to reduce the production ceiling of the coal plants for a few years. This decision may mean that we need to extract energy from abroad in order to meet our energy needs. We do not know how much CO emissions this imported energy will stand for. We do not need to know that either, I understand from the Secretary of State in response to questions from my group. Emissions did not take place in the Netherlands and allowances were paid for them. To meet our energy needs, we do subsidise the burning of biomass, which has higher CO emissions and is more polluting than coal. With the biomass, it works exactly the other way around. We do not count on actual emissions in the Netherlands, because CO2 emissions are already calculated at harvest elsewhere in the world. Emissions that do not take place there and for which no CO2 duties are paid. It remains strange for my group that something as tangible and measurable as CO2 emissions also appears to have a fictitious side. Mr. Chairman. It is all reasonable and in line with European and global commitments. The starting point is that biomass is renewable energy. The Secretary of State is undoubtedly going to explain this very well. But as explanatory as it may be, it is an unsatisfactory situation for my group. We therefore welcome the motion adopted in the House of Representatives to at least measure the actual CO emissions of biomass in the Netherlands. We call on the Secretary of State to make a quick start on this. We also welcome the adoption of the motion not to provide any additional subsidies for the use of biomass in coal-fired power stations. As far as we are concerned, we will stop using biomass as an energy supplier as quickly as possible. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The bill we are talking about is an amendment to the Coal Power Plant Act. There will be a production ceiling for the years from now to 2024 to ensure that the Netherlands will achieve the 25% CO reduction compared to 1990. The measure is based on PBL calculations. Our group's question is how up-to-date the calculations and the subsequent predictions of the PBL are now when the ETS price of CO has risen so much. Is this high, rising price taken into account in the predictions of the PBL? If, because of the price of coal combined with the high price of allowances, coal plants are unlikely to exceed the ceiling set by the Secretary of State, the law is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u113	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u114	May I say one more sentence, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u115	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u116	Will the Secretary of State go into it again as to why it believes that this legislative amendment should be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u117	Mrs Huizinga refers to a motion adopted in the House of Representatives on the measurement of CO emissions from a biomass power plant, which her group welcomes. Does Mrs Huizinga's group also have any consequences for the results of these measurements? Or does she say: this is nice to have, but we don't do much else with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u118	This is the first step. Let's at least know what we're talking about. Let us at least know how much CO emissions we are talking about, also to get a picture of how much is being emitted in the Netherlands in the short term. Whether that has consequences and which one is the next step for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u119	Mrs. Faber. Oh, that's it again. Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u120	It's about the same point. I hear Mrs Huizinga say here that she is pleased that the conversion from coal to biomass and wood-burning is no longer on the agenda. In December 2019 we held a debate here in the Chamber about the predecessor of this law. At that time I tabled a motion stating that in all cases it would be undesirable for the closure of coal plants to lead to conversion to biomass plants. I asked you about this at the interrupting microphone and asked for your support for that motion, but you did not want to begin. Can you explain what has changed in the meantime so that you have come to this understanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u121	I remember the moment you were standing at the interrupting microphone, but I don't remember exactly what was in your motion, nor do I remember the situation. If you think what I'm saying is a step in your direction, I'd be happy if I were you and counting my blessings. It is difficult for me to go back and say exactly what my consideration was for my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u122	That motion stated that the Chamber would declare that it is undesirable at all times to convert coal plants into wood-fired biomass plants. That was the verdict of this Chamber. You'll make that statement today. I note that the insight then indeed comes with the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u123	I'm always happy with the conclusion that insight comes with the years, especially since we're all getting older. I'll leave it to you. Mr. Chairman. Abandoning the law would also save the Secretary of State the difficult determination of the disadvantage compensation. My group welcomes, once again, the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives to refer the method of determining further compensation to the Chamber. Mr Crone asked whether this could be done in the Upper Chamber. That would also be an improvement for my group. For us, the starting point in the assessment is not that compensation should be as low as possible. When companies are disadvantaged by public trading, it is reasonable to compensate them for this. The compensation must be real and pay for the damage actually suffered. It would be difficult to establish whether and how much coal plants have been kept below the production ceiling because of the law, and how much is due to the lower or even negative margins in the market. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. One more question about the duration of the change. My group has asked why the amendment does not apply until 2030, if all coal plants have to close down. This gives clarity and certainty to the energy industry. The Secretary of State replied that this is not necessary; from 2025 there is no provision for a ceiling to be set. Does this mean that it is certain that the ceiling will no longer be necessary from 2025 and that the amendment will not be renewed? Then it would be good to include that in the law. Or is it conceivable that in 2024 it will be decided to maintain the change? My group would like a clear answer from the Secretary of State. It is important for the energy industry to know what is going on. Long-term uncertainty and uncertainty are bad for the confidence of the public sector in general. This is certainly true of the companies in the energy sector. As it takes longer before there is a missionary cabinet, the appeal by the cabinet to its own missionary status, which I also encountered in the reply, becomes less strong. At the moment, there is no view of a new cabinet. The coal-fired power stations can expect clarity from the public authorities, including as regards the duration of this change. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u125	Mr. Chairman. Capital destruction on an industrial scale: our group described the Coal Ban Act in 2019. The latest highly efficient coal power plants in the world, which were put into operation in 2016, after D66 Minister Brinkhorst in the Balkenende II cabinet had thought that we needed more coal power plants, will be put back into operation after barely a few years of operation. Capital destruction on an industrial scale. Of the approximately 50,000 megatons of CO that the world emits annually, 166 megatons are accounted for by the Netherlands: 0.3% of global CO emissions. Even if the Netherlands were to emit 0 CO, total emissions in the world would still grow from other countries. This is mainly due to China, which is responsible for 25% of global CO emissions. But we close the state-of-the-art, cleanest coal power stations in the world: the Netherlands as a guide country. The Netherlands throws an ice cube in the Atlantic to stop the global temperature rise. It costs billions, but then you have nothing. However, the majority of Parliament has invented this destructive decision. She's been approved by Minister Wiebes, so we're dealing with this mess now. The bill we are discussing today regulates the temporary limitation of the production of electricity from coal to 35% of the amount of CO emissions from the maximum coal capacity. First, the D66 Minister asks energy companies to invest in coal plants and then they have to close again. Because of this wobbling zigzag policy, the Netherlands will soon be stuck with wiggle current and the security of supply will be at stake. If, as the Dutch government does, you make the long-term businesscase of this investment law impossible, that de facto amounts to expropriation. And in the event of expropriation, adequate compensation will have to be paid. This is an important fundamental principle of international law. However, this legislative amendment does not specify exactly how this compensation is to be paid to the producer. This will not be settled until later by general measure of governance. What is settled is the Van der Lee motion adopted in the House of Representatives, which states that overcompensation must be avoided. Money should be recovered from producers if it becomes apparent that market prices were moving in a certain direction that had not been anticipated. So that's basically something like selling your house, after which you get a post-tax years later, when you've done the deal a long time ago. That is not a desirable situation. We believe that this compensation should be done ex ante on the basis of objective criteria and not with clawbacks afterwards. I have already mentioned in the debate in 2019 on this law and also in the interruptions in Mr Crone's speech that the perceived political risk of the Netherlands as a location for companies is increased by this yo-yo policy. In this way the Dutch government deters companies from settling here, especially if you can still be expropriated by law, without it being clear who will be compensated for the damage, you can also get a claim on it later. It is therefore very important that this is properly regulated, in the interests of the Netherlands' locational environment. With the tens of billions of taxpayers' money thrown away by the cabinet with this ill-thought-out energy transaction, proper compensation for this expropriation can also be added. Last Sunday we heard Mrs Marjan Minnesma of Urgenda at Buitenhof demanding all kinds of additional measures from the government. If it is up to Mrs Minnesma, the judge is now going to impose billions of periodic penalty payments on the State. I was wondering how many Dutch people actually voted for Mrs Minnesma. Nobody. Unfortunately, however, this is typical of the course of events surrounding the energy transition. If the cabinet and parliament had made clear laws, then Urgenda could not have claimed the space she now received from the judge. Our suggestion to the Secretary of State is therefore to see whether the cabinet can not come up with a law that will ensure that the judge does not sit further on the seat of the executive and that makes it legally impossible to impose such huge periodic penalty payments in such cases. We saw something similar a few months ago, when Secretary of State Broekers-Knol came up with a repair law to tackle towering periodic penalty payments of endlessly litigating asylum seekers, an initiative that our group also supported at that time. It is clear that, as far as our group is concerned, the law on the prohibition of coal in electricity production from day one is an unfortunate plan. We can also be brief about the idiotic tree stook. Of course, it must stop as soon as possible. As early as 2019, the First Chamber adopted a motion, co-signed by our group, to immediately stop subsidising wood aid in coal-fired power stations. We ask the Secretary of State about this ban on subsidising. We can look back on the law that was passed two years ago and on which the current law is a follow-up, but well, that law has been passed. So it's now a matter of damage control. That is to say: adequate compensation for the expropriation of energy producers, without clawbacks afterwards, in order to avoid further deterioration of the Dutch locational environment. We are also calling on the Cabinet to come up with better legislation to frame further interventions by the courts in climate policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u126	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For me, this is the first time I have been allowed to debate this Secretary of State, which is why I wish her much strength and wisdom in her extensive task. Today she is here to defend the measure in question, because "as a result of the Urgenda judgment, the State is bound by the reduction order of at least 25% compared to 1990 in the Netherlands." The proposed measure contributes to the achievement of this obligation, according to the Government. But it doesn't seem so easy for the Secretary of State to come here and defend this law. After all, choices have been made that put us in an uncomfortable position and perhaps even in an impossible position. Let me start with choice number zero, i.e. a choice of the past. This is the choice to set the reduction target in percentages in the law. My advice at the time was: don't, because the state becomes a target for every lawyer. This law is an extension of this law, because "the legal production restriction envisaged by this bill is the only measure that provides a relatively high degree of certainty in the short term for the CO reduction to be achieved while guaranteeing security of supply." Then I come to choice one: how much reduction? With retroactive effect, CO emissions should be reduced. The choice is to achieve this via the route of a ban on coal emissions. In doing so, it is important to use the correct terminology. For example, the use of coal-fired power stations accounts for 35% of the total, i.e. a reduction of 65%. Isn't that right? So let's just say by the name: the coal plants are reduced to one third of their capacity and two thirds are shut down. Choice two: biomass doesn't count. By choice one, capacity shortages may occur. It seems that these deficits are eliminated by the burning of biomass because they do not include CO emissions. Is that indeed a correct observation? If so, we'll be taken hugely between them, won't we? We're gonna eject, but we're gonna take a route that won't be counted. What's the ratio behind that? In the written debate, I read that the non-recognizing of biomass is based on international IPCC agreements and subsequent legislation within the European Union. If the Netherlands is the only one that counts the emissions of biomass, there will be a double counting, both in the harvest and in the use as an energy carrier. Does this mean that the reduction of coal combustion will be achieved, but not the reduction of CO? Choice three has to do with the security of supply. "By reducing CO emissions and the related reduction of electricity production, it is possible that electricity will be supplied by non-Dutch power stations," the government says. If the coal plants are shut down and there is a need for electricity, they will still be supplied by German lignite plants, which are many times more polluting than the Dutch plants. In other words, does the government agree with the SGP that a law aimed only at the Netherlands will have no real effect, because the problem is being shifted beyond the borders of our country? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, my group is struggling with a law that provides a solution that is in fact a sham solution. We are shifting the problem of coal emissions, on which we are dealt with, to the same biomass emissions, which need not be counted. This is a dummy solution, which does not do justice to what is really necessary, namely to reduce emissions. Two: the coal-fired power stations will be compensated, the costs of which are not yet fully covered. And three: while the cleaner coal plants in the Netherlands are partly closed down, there is a chance that the much more polluting lignite plants in our neighbour Germany will be firing extra CO. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this. The Climate Act targets 49% reduction by 2030 and 95% by 2050. The EU raises this to 55% and 100% respectively. But this measure is already there because we are not achieving the goal for the moment. Is it realistic to stick to percentages that prove unfeasible? What would happen if the proposed measure again did not produce sufficient results? In the government's response, I read that the climate targets in the Netherlands will be aligned with the EU targets. Does this mean that additional legislation is to be expected, on top of the current Climate Law? Mr President, all questions. I look forward very much to the response of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk. Then I give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the Secretary of State in the First Chamber and thank you for the answers she has given to our questions. Mr. Chairman. The first half of the last century has shown that investing in coal is not very successful. The Dutch government and the Dutch government also knew this in the last century, because in the 50 or so years that the state mines in Limburg were called "the most modern in Europe" at the time, they have made losses in almost all years, including the large, modern coal power plants that provided the Netherlands with electricity. This was also the reason for the Dutch government to stop coal strictly in the 1960s. The newly discovered gas had a much better future. The bill for that rigorous stop had to be paid by the Limburg cowls. In five years, as many as 75,000 wrinkles lost their jobs and they were left to their own devices. The coal adventure of the Dutch government cost billions at the time. Investing in coal was, all in all, a very bad plan. That was then. The reason for the amendment of the law on the ban on coal in electricity production that is before us today is, on the one hand, a great success for the Urgenda organisation, but, at the same time, a sad example of failing government policy. Unfortunately, there have been more shocking examples of this lately, such as the childcare allowance and so on. In this case it is about the production of energy. How is it possible that the Dutch Government and the Dutch Parliament were only so recently able to focus on the construction of new coal power plants for energy production? At the time of the decision, each of the drivers concerned must have been sufficiently aware of the dramatic impact this method of energy production has on the environment, not only on CO emissions, but also on the immediate living environment surrounding these plants in connection with air and smell and also on the miners who have to extract this filthy stuff from deep underground and put their health at risk. Limburg's wrinkles had to shuffle for half a century, deep underground, and then smell for thanks and to be left to their fate. It was a blunder from the government to propose to invest in coal power plants. Fortunately, the shore turned the ship, because the judiciary rightly sided with Urgenda. That was a victory for our rule of law. But last Sunday we heard again from the representative of Urgenda that she will go to court, as the government apparently does not follow the court ruling sufficiently. We ask the Secretary of State to look at that image and see if she recognizes herself in it. Mr. Chairman. It seems that the Dutch taxpayer is entitled to pay the price of this blunder, because it is likely that substantial compensation will have to be paid to investors who had at the time had to take into account the risks of the counter-jurisdiction in the development risks. After all, it was known. Which climate-denying directors take responsibility for the payment of these damages claims? At least the OSF isn't hot for it. We call on the government to do everything in its power to prevent the claims. Sustainable has the future. That is the case now, and that was the case at the time of the decision on coal-fired power stations, some ten years ago. This is demonstrated, for example, by a comparison of the investments of pension fund ABP, even such a government-related organisation that long belonged to the deniers. Detailed research has shown that ABP could have generated as much as 25 billion more returns for its members if it had previously decided on sustainable investments and investments. Here too, a huge blunder has been committed by the climate-denying directors of a pension fund. Is there any way we can get them to pay for that? Durably it also gains from fossil in terms of energy production. The time has come for sustainable investment to be profitable with large sums of subsidies. Forerunner of the climate deniers, Mr Bolkestein, former chairman of the VVD, will undoubtedly find it difficult that windmills, which he called the biggest contributors, are now economically extremely profitable. Sustainable was, is and will be the most promising choice for our children and grandchildren. Nuclear energy via thorium plants is not the ideal option for the future either. It continues to generate energy from radiation and radioactive waste with major risks to humans that are not solved. Terrifying examples of Chernobyl and Fukushima are known to everyone and many are familiar with the hair tears of the Belgian nuclear power stations. They pose such a threat to the safety of residents in the surrounding area of more than 100 kilometres that the province of Limburg has now sought preventive measures and has considered distributing iodine pills to the population in due course, if it goes completely wrong, which of course we do not hope to have done anything about prevention. So you can see that nuclear power stations are not the solution. Mr. Chairman. The coal plants must be shut down as soon as possible. We should not pass on CO issues to our children and grandchildren. The expiry of the production of electricity from coal power plants should not be solved with electricity from, for example, gas from Germany or Russia, as the answers, for example, showed. That is why, in the round of questions, we called for the additional costs of installing solar panels on company roofs to be included as a possible form of subsidy, so that this enormous potential of the industrial roofs in the Netherlands to generate energy via solar panels can be realised as quickly as possible and thus be a compensation for disabling the coal power plants. I therefore call on the government to introduce such an arrangement on a perimeter basis. In the answers, you indicated that this is not possible because the cabinet is outgoing. Last Sunday, I heard a well-known board advisor say that the Chamber should take its own responsibility. So, in this case, I would like to give you that assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u130	I have a question for Mr Raven. I hear him making a warm plea for solar and wind energy. I can also hear him being a warm opponent of coal energy. I can understand that very well, also from his background, with everything that has gone wrong in the past, of course. I also hear he's against gas. My question to Mr Raven is: how does he plan to catch the intermittent current, if there is no sun and no wind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u131	The main problem, of course, is energy storage. There are examples to invest more in hydrogen. It's not that simple. In Belgium you have hydropower stations with pumps. In the Netherlands, we do not apply these possibilities. You could apply it on a somewhat larger scale here in the Netherlands, so that at times when there is indeed insufficient energy from wind or sun to allow large-scale storage of energy to be released. There are those possibilities, including technical ones. In Limburg, for example, we talked about the OPAC. Then your water drops 1,000 meters into the ground and you pump it back up when you need the energy less. So there are just possibilities and I do not see very many initiatives on that point. It has been known for more than ten years, or more than fifteen years, that this is the biggest problem for the future. We're on our way to hydrogen. That might be a good alternative, but at the moment it is not enough to take this initiative fully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u132	I have a brief supplementary question for Mr Raven. I understand his long-term solutions, but what do we do until then? If there's no wind and sun, we're gonna have a problem until then, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u133	If you are referring to the development of nuclear power plants, then that is not something you will have ready tomorrow. This applies to several of these types of solutions. The easiest method is to fill half of the Netherlands with solar panels on roofs of companies that are not suitable now because they have not been built in the past to have solar panels on them. There must be investment in it, because there is a huge potential there. My last sentence, Mr. Chairman. In this respect, I wish the new government a progressive, sustainable policy aimed at the survival of humanity and the flora and fauna on this earth for the next millions of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u134	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren, who will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u135	President and Madam Secretary of State. The draft law before us today foresees that the Netherlands achieves the objective of Urgendajurisdiscretion. This objective has been maintained up to and including the Supreme Court. The Dutch State must reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25% compared to 1990 levels. That should have been the case by 2020, but this proposal will achieve its goal in a series of years until 2024. The first question we have is: is that indeed the case or should additional measures be taken? Apart from the substantive reasons, the Netherlands must do so in order to remain within the limits of the rule of law. There is no choice in terms of purpose, but there is a choice in terms of means. I shall return to that at the end of my speech. There is therefore no choice of principle. The judge has spoken to the highest authority. The fact that this has created a politically uncomfortable situation has become clear in recent years. Climate policy is extremely difficult. Judicial pronunciation indicates a direction, but the political reluctance of matter is great. The judge's ruling is remarkable but not incomprehensible in an urgent situation in which international commitments have been made and political action has started late and is still unconvincing. Coal plants will have to close down by 2030 and their production will have to be reduced to 35% of capacity in the coming years if this bill is adopted. That happens in a policy-wise messy setting. The use of biomass has gradually become highly controversial. The discussions about windmills on land are raging high. That is understandable, because in many places the necessary space is lacking. Nuclear energy is still not a real subject for discussion. Investment in hydrogen production is lagging behind internationally. Then we are only talking about the energy transition, while most of the CO emissions are related to the production of raw materials. The policy is unclear. A new cabinet needs to put this in order. We're running out of time. Clock's ticking. There is support for a reasonable policy for a large part of the population. This is demonstrated by recent research by the SCP and a popular consultation among 10,000 Dutch people by TNO among others. The majority of the population believe that climate policy is urgently needed, but that the measures should not intervene too much in privacy. More general measures such as housing sustainability, subsidies on electric cars and the heavy burden on polluting companies can count on a lot of support. Behavior restrictions such as eating less meat and flying less are not popular. As far as tackling large companies is concerned, the present proposal is therefore in line with the public's view. Coal and therefore the coal industry have hardly any supporters anymore. That does not alter the need for care. The coal plants invested in the Netherlands not so long ago under the assumption that the government would decide on the underground storage of CO. That was the combination. Coal is cheap and in stock. If we put the adverse effects underground, it's a winning combination. That was the thought, but the underground storage was cancelled, so only the polluting aspect remained. Therefore, in 2019 it was decided to close the coal plants in 2030 and it is now proposed to reduce production to 35%. It has already been said by several speakers: this is bitter for the companies involved. Seven court cases are already in progress due to the financial compensation for the closure in 2030. My group has a few urgent questions to the Secretary of State. How exactly is compensation for the reduction of production going to be arranged? Can the law enter into force if this is not yet settled? And to make a full assessment possible, were there any alternatives to comply with court rulings? If so, why haven't they been followed? Mr. Chairman. So far. We await the reaction of the cabinet with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u136	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I now give the floor to Mrs Gerkens on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u137	Mr. Chairman. In a week in which temperatures in the United States and Canada rise to unprecedented levels, a report from the IPCC leaked out in which the alarm clock was sounded, and Urgenda announced that he would go to court again, we are talking today about reducing CO emissions from coal plants. These events do make the urgency clear to us, despite the fact that others in this Chamber think differently. Global warming is in full swing, and the longer we wait, the more damage is done. This damage, as well as its cost, will by definition end up on the weakest shoulders and disrupt life as we know it today. But fortunately, the tide can still be reversed. Time is running out and the situation requires us to act quickly. My group would therefore also like to see the same sense of urgency in tackling the climate crisis as we saw in tackling the pandemic. The climate crisis and the pandemic are essentially the same cause: economic growth is above man. Let us be clear about that. That is why the SP looks forward to the vigorous proposals of this outgoing cabinet. The reduction to 2024 is not enough. We would therefore like to see an opportunity to extend it until 2030. In addition to measuring the need for measures to combat global warming, the SP also includes the human dimension. The coal fund, which was introduced into the law by Mr Leijten's amendment, is a nice insurance scheme for workers who see their jobs at risk. We would like to see the effects of this. My group shares the opinion of the PvdA on the compensation for damage. These companies have long been able to see that coal power stations would not have long lives. And to the PVV Group and the Otten Group, I say that this has been a not small noise in the debate I had with Mr Crone myself. For example, Essent decided in 2008 not to open new coal plants. Then it was said that anyone who now builds a coal power station would deliberately and against better knowledge harm the climate. Mr. Chairman. The opportunism with which new power stations were built at the time reflects the lack of a sense of responsibility for global warming. My group therefore supports the PvdA's request for a veil on the loss compensation should there be. We remain concerned about the supposedly solving of the problems of woody biomass. This can be even worse than coal-burning. I would once again ask for the assurance that there will be no new subsidies for the co-incineration of woody biomass. If the reduction of coal threatens to create a shortage, then burning with gas is the appropriate alternative. The Minister writes that she can do nothing against the increase in woody biomass combustion because she chooses to reduce CO emissions. Surely it can guarantee that all factors, such as forest cutting, transport and so on, will be taken into account in the calculation of CO emissions? Are we not going to run the risk of a kind of 'dirty biofuel'? It is even better to reduce the demand for electricity. This can be done by building energy-efficient houses, and by generating the energy that is needed with real sustainable resources, so that there is less pressure on these large power stations. The necessary measures are also awaited here. In the cities, the protected cityscape is still more important than the possibility to place solar panels on the roof. We leave a lot of precious time and opportunities here. What does the Minister see as an opportunity to ensure that even more roofs can be covered with solar panels? I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u138	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. Finally, Mr Koffeman has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u139	Thank you, Mr President. For years, the cabinet has been doing far too little to reduce CO emissions, and with that the ruling of the Supreme Court of 2019 has been overturned. The measures which the cabinet has been unable to take in recent years are clearly too little, too late. This bill fits that pattern. Of course, our group is very much in favour of severely reducing the burning of coal, but we must be sure that the cure is no worse than the disease. Apart from setting the bar too low again, the reduction limit is only temporary, i.e. until 2024. Why? What's the idea behind that? And why does the limitation not run until the coal ban in 2030? Is the Secretary of State prepared to continue the production restriction until that year? I'm considering a motion on that point. It never ends, seems to be the cabinet thinking. This bill may reduce emissions from coal combustion, but coal power plants are changing massively to woody biomass as a new fuel. Because according to a calculation trick by the European Commission, the burning of wood is CO-neutral, although we now know from numerous national and international scientific reports that biomass is more polluting than coal, and is also much less efficient than natural gas as relatively clean transition fuel. The CO emissions from the transport and production of wood pellets are added to this Brussels calculation trick. Energy companies import large-scale wood for biomass plants from the Baltic States and North America, with ships emitting nitrogen, fine dust and greenhouse gases. Is the Secretary of State prepared to acknowledge that Dutch biomass plants are indeed being harvested abroad for primary forests? Does the Secretary of State recognise that burning woody biomass is much more polluting than coal? Mr. Chairman. Our group is pleased that the motion by Mr Sienot and Mrs Van Esch was adopted in the Lower House, calling on the cabinet to report on CO emissions from biomass in future. We are also cautiously positive that there is now a provisional halt to new subsidies for biomass. But who's to say that the old subsidies aren't just gonna be extended? It amounts to EUR 9.5 billion. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Our group is also concerned about a new subsidy, namely for the provision of flexible capital. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that biomass use will be excluded from this new subsidy? Mr. Chairman. By limiting production, power plants no longer need part of their emission rights. What happens to that? Can the Secretary of State exclude our emissions from production restrictions from moving to another country? Mr. Chairman. If the Secretary of State really wants to do something for the climate, why not abolish the exemption from coal tax? If you want to discourage the use of fossil fuels, that seems a logical route. How does the Secretary of State view this? How does the coal tax exemption, which has cost the taxpayer around 90 million a year since 2016, relate to the loss compensation? Is this included in the calculation of the fee? Where does the Secretary of State intend to pay the further compensation? Why is compensation paid at all? Surely companies could have known long ago that investing in coal was finite and irresponsible? Mr President, I shall conclude. The longer the cabinet waits to take truly effective measures, the more annoying, difficult and more expensive it becomes. The cabinet would seize the corona crisis to finally reduce and green up polluting sectors. Unfortunately, however, major polluters, such as the aviation industry and intensive livestock farming, appear to be emerging again. Economic growth is at the top, even if it is at the expense of our health, our living environment and the climate. This bill also does not contribute to cleaner air and preventing global warming at more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. You will therefore not be surprised that our group cannot support this law in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u140	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I have the following proposal. We're a little ahead of schedule. I propose that we now suspend for 30 minutes, until 4.15 p.m., to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to prepare the answer, that we begin at 4.15 p.m. with the first term from the government, until the planned dinner break of 5.10 p.m. and that we resume the debate after dinner, at 6.10 p.m. Can the Chamber agree to that? Yes. So we'll suspend until 4:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u141	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35668, Amendment of the Coal Ban Act in electricity production with regard to CO emission reduction. We are now ready for the government's response in the first term. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate - Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased to be able to be here again just a week after my first debate in your Chamber, when another important legislative proposal is discussed. It is important because this is a major step towards reducing CO emissions in our country in the short term. That's not only important because we're dealing with an Urgendavonnis. This is not only important because we have to stick to our own climate goals. It is particularly important because of the greater objective for which we are taking all climate action. We don't take them because we're blind staring at targets or numbers. We are taking this step by step to transform our energy supply, which is still largely based on fossil fuels, into a sustainable energy supply. This will contain the consequences of climate change and ensure that we pass on our planet, and therefore, of course, the Netherlands, responsibly to the generations after us. That's always the goal. And that's asking a lot of questions. This requires choices, here in politics and in the boardrooms of companies. This calls for an open view, and we do not exclude options in advance and are therefore also prepared to consider which renewable energy sources we are prepared to accept. It also calls for ambitious choices that allow for innovation and progress, which make it increasingly cleaner and smarter. This, too, is a sector in which our country is at the forefront worldwide. But most of all, it requires smart choices. I mean smart choices about how we fit the renewable energy that comes with it in the next few years as well as possible in our densely populated country. But I also mean smart choices that will not only make our energy system future-proof, but also affordable and smart choices about how, looking for new forms of energy, we can reduce fossil fuels and finally say goodbye to them. Today it is also about saying goodbye to techniques and energy forms that are too burdensome for the environment and the climate. Fortunately, we also have better and better alternatives to that. All this must be done in a responsible manner so that the security of supply of our energy is not compromised. After all, we all want our surgeons to continue to operate and that the light also goes on when the sun doesn't shine and it doesn't blow. And we all want to be able to enjoy the European Championship football, even after last weekend. Mr. Chairman. Looking for that balance again, I stand before you. This bill provides for coal-fired power stations to reduce CO emissions related to coal combustion to 35% by 2024. The proposal has been designed in such a way that coal plants remain available for security of supply in order to provide the necessary capacity to meet demand in periods of low wind and low sun. Mr. Chairman. There were a lot of legitimate questions about Urgenda, by the way. So that's what I wanted to start with. I've got a couple of folders here with me again. Would you like me to give you the order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u143	Yes, I'd love to, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u144	So first I come to Urgenda, then to the limitation of production, the disadvantage compensation, the security of supply, the position of the workers and the coal tax. By then, I think we'll be eating. Those are the folders I'm carrying now. If it continues any longer, I think there was a whole set about biomass as well. That could just come up next. I'll start with Urgenda, Mr. Chairman. In December 2019, the Urgendavonnis of the Court of The Hague was ratified by the Supreme Court. The State was therefore committed to achieving at least 25% CO reduction in 2020 compared to 1990. Also in the years after 2020, we are expected to achieve the reduction rate. By the end of December 2019, PBL updated the expected emission reduction for 2020. This showed that a significant additional reduction was still needed by 2020. Therefore, in April 2020, last year, the Cabinet announced an additional package of measures to achieve a substantial additional reduction in the coming years. This means that a great deal has been done and has been put into effect in recent times. The cabinet has announced measures such as reducing electricity production by coal, reducing emissions in industry, for example the reduction of nitrous oxide, and measures that provide an action perspective for citizens and businesses to start their own work on sustainability. Examples include the promotion of energy savings in businesses and in residential and rental housing, the promotion of LED use in greenhouses and the exchange premium for refrigerators. The measures in the package with the greatest reduction effect are aimed at substantially reducing electricity production from coal. To this end, two additional measures have been announced in the coal sector: a legal limitation of coal production for all coal plants for the years 2021 to 2024, which is the subject of today's debate, and a subsidy to allow one power station to completely stop coal in 2021. The measure has been designed, as I said earlier, to ensure that coal plants remain available for security of supply, so that they can meet the necessary demand in periods of low sunshine and low wind, in order to have sufficient capacity to do so. This is done to the maximum extent possible by the coal sector to contribute to the implementation of the Urgendavonnis, without compromising the security of supply. The measure is still needed. At the beginning of this year CBS announced that the reduction in 2020 was 24.5%, partly due to corona and mild winter. We have to go to 25%, so you'd think it was going pretty well. Although the figures are not yet definitive, they show that, fortunately, we are already on the move in the first quarter of this year, because the corona measures are decreasing, that it is necessary to introduce the measure as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Now I come to the questions. A question from the CDA, to enable full assessment: were there any alternatives to comply with the judgment of the court? If so, why have they not been followed up? I have just mentioned a number of measures that we have worked out and put on the table, which we are working on. Several measures have been put into effect by the Cabinet in order to contribute to the execution of the judgment. It has been checked every time that such a measure can be implemented quickly, because that is very important. Is it as cost-effective as possible? Are we still doing smart things with as little money as possible? Can the measures count on support and provide an action perspective for citizens and businesses to participate in the transition themselves? The point of view is always that everyone should be able to experience it. Measures which are now on the table or which were not on the table last year did not meet these criteria, but they were looked at very carefully. Then I have a question from the PVV, which came back in several places: on what legal grounds did the judge base the 25% reduction? I think I heard one of the members say "but I don't know who "it's because of the climate law that you guys came up with." That's not true. In determining 25%, the judge based himself on the IPCC reports. On this basis and the precautionary principle, the court concluded that the Dutch State is obliged to reduce these emissions by 25% compared to 1990.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u145	The Secretary of State states that the judge had based himself on reports from the IPCC, but that's not a hard legal standard, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u146	When there is a judge's ruling: "this is how I interpret this and then the Dutch State must abide by it," that is the reality that we have to work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u147	That's not an answer to my question. I'm asking for the hard legal standard. The judge mainly based the ruling, sought to join the COPs and the climate conferences. But again, that's not a hard legal standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u148	That 25% was not a legal standard that the Dutch State had ordered itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u149	In any case, we agree that there is no hard legal standard under this judge's decision. But then the judge sat down in the political chair, didn't he? We have the trias politician here. Doesn't it look like that rule of the separation of powers has been violated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u150	It is precisely from that separation of powers that it is not for me to judge the work of the judge here. You can see that we then appealed and that as a state we also found some of it. In the end, that statement is there, and we must now relate to it. Then we try to do so in the most sensible way possible with measures that are not only quick to implement, but also cost-effective, and in a way that is also acceptable to people at home and businesses. So this is how we fill in our responsibility from the political point of view. But it is precisely from that separation of powers that I do not think it is wise that I am going to have an evaluation discussion here about the role of the judge in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u151	Mrs Faber, the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u152	I understand, of course, that the Secretary of State is somewhat in the middle of the chain, which of course is not very pleasant... or with the finger between the door, that is also possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u153	Follow up on your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u154	Excuse me, I'm not allowed to respond in the room. I'm sorry about that. The Secretary of State states that the statutory standard of 25% is not there. Then again the question: did the judge sit in the seat of the politician? He or she has made a political decision if there is no legal standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u155	That is the same question, but answer me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u156	We have, of course, committed ourselves as a country to the 2015 Paris Agreement. We've concluded an energy agreement. We also have, after the judge's ruling, the Climate Agreement and the Climate Act. It is therefore explicitly the State's view that we must take steps to combat climate change. What happens then in such a trial, the interpretation of the judge and the percentage that is imposed, these are all facts that I am dealing with now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u157	We are of course in favour of the separation of powers, the trias politician, but it is not that if the judge says anything, you have to deal with it forever. How many times have we been here in recent months to deal with all kinds of emergency legislation? All the days of the week we were here about to also fix laws that were flagged back by the judge in no time with emergency legislation. Okay, that judgment was there. He was coming, too. As a legislator and a government, you could have known it was coming. The judge has stretched his mandate quite a bit. Then you could have made a repair law. This also happens every once in a while in tax legislation. If the Supreme Court suspends any law, there's a repair law in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u158	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u159	Why wasn't that route chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u160	A course has been chosen in which we have gone to trial before the Supreme Court and where we have said: is this the way we should do it? But, yes, that statement is there. Then there was a climate agreement, as well as a climate law. In that Climate Agreement, we indicate that there is a path towards 49% by 2030 and then towards 2050. So we also set up for ourselves how we want to see it next. That doesn't make this verdict go away. We can talk about it for a long time, but that statement doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u161	Once again, we are not at all opposed to the judiciary, like other parties, which make it whole, but above all we think it is a failure on the part of the legislature that it has not acted adequately to fix this. That that judge and then the Supreme Court then apply a rather expansive interpretation is something that can be done, but then it is not that you have to accept it and you could not do anything about it anymore. As I said, it happens every once in a while with tax legislation. We have also seen this in the corona legislation. So I do not think it is ambitious that the cabinet that has more or less just accepted it as some sort of done fact and has not taken any harm reduction measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u162	You repeat your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u163	Then, of course, we will see what the verdict means for how we can set things up. Then you're not gonna do anything at all. I believe that my predecessor and I, as spokesperson in the Chamber, have said this very often. I shall come back to that later: this is not a random thing to do. I look at clear criteria, where you say: okay, I have to run it fast, but I want it to be cost-effective and I also want it to have support from people at home and from companies. It is then a question of interpreting this statement on the basis of the political responsibility that we have, of course. That's what's in store now. So just taking over and not doing anything with it isn't what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u164	Probably I'm the one who caused the confusion by pointing to the Climate Law, which contained 49% reduction. In the Minister's reply, this climate law will come back a little while, but how you turn or turn it: these successive measures of agreements and so on end up with that climate law. So he's got something to do with it, too. We can see we're hiking up against that ceiling. Then the government said: we are going to link it to what is in Europe with new ambition. May I ask if the Secretary of State will not allow us to raise that 49% in the next law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u165	The Netherlands has strongly advocated moving towards 55% in the European context. That's what worked. This summer, 14 July, we expect 12 to 13 legislative proposals from Europe on how that will look. What will be our commitment towards Europe we need to discuss with each other. How we translate that back into our own goals and policies, we also need to discuss it with each other again. Fortunately, we don't have to have that around the day after, July 15th; we have a route for that. In my participation in the Energy Council in Luxembourg two weeks ago, I said 'and I will continue to say 'we are in favour of raising the target, but we would then like to see how we are going to achieve that. How is that in relation to our national goals and our national policies?" The point is that you don't start stacking things at some point. That is perhaps the underlying idea of the question, namely that you are going to stack so many things, that in the end climate action can no longer be kept up with for the people. Yes, we do. We want it to be worn for everyone and affordable. Then you must be able to weigh that well. We'll be in that stretch from mid-July.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u166	Can I conclude, then, that, at the time when the investigation shows that it is virtually impossible, we do not have any proposals to raise it? Then all we do is get ourselves deeper into the mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u167	I suggest that I take this as a signal, but first we see what Europe is going to come up with, what form and how it relates to what we are doing here. I am afraid to say exactly now, but I think we have a year and a half to see how we are going to set it up. So I take this signal with me, but it remains a fact that we, as the Netherlands, have actively argued for that 55%, so that is something that needs to be done with ourselves. Mr. Chairman. I still have a question from Mrs Faber, because I was halfway through the PVV's questions. She asked how proportional this concrete proposal is. I myself do not think that we could entirely agree on this dossier at all, but perhaps Mrs Faber thinks that this is a little too soon for her too. I wonder if I could propose measures at all in the context of limiting climate change, which the PVV says: top, we think is a good idea. Of course, a lot of measures have been considered. I have also mentioned a number of them. We believe that this will make a real difference in the short term, and that is why it is a good story to lay down with you. Even if I don't think I'm gonna convince Mrs Faber here, I have the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u168	I asked how proportional the bill is. This also has to do with the question of how appropriate and necessary the measures are to achieve the objective. The Secretary of State wants to do CO reduction, but in the meantime we are going to produce more CO, using biomass. Because burning biomass generates 50% more CO. The measures taken by the Secretary of State do not reduce CO2. Surely the measures will not be proportionate? We can say 'on paper it is', but then we are fooling each other here and that is not the intention!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u169	I think it is a very relevant discussion that we can have with biomass. I will come to biomass later, because a lot of questions have been asked about it. How's it decorated now? How does that work? How is it prepared on paper and what are we talking about? Now that there is a verdict before us and we have to take steps, this is a step that can help us further. I would like to respect the judge's ruling, and I think that the proposal before us is a reasonable one and is proportionate and well-balanced. I understand the question about biomass, but if you will allow me, I will come back to it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u170	Thank you. I think Mrs Faber's fine with that. No? Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u171	A very essential question concerns proportionality. We can have a whole discussion about biomass, but I understand that you are not really understanding me, but just stand in your position and respect the verdict and therefore accept it. You want to reduce COgaan, but in practice we do not do so with these measures. We will then take the stamp on us of an unreliable government. In fact, we're fooling each other about this. That's the world upside down, isn't it? This way no one, no company, wants to work for us anymore. I don't think it's proportional. I don't follow you in that, to be honest. Suppose you could actually get CO reduction through it, not that I'm in favour of it, but that's a completely different discussion, then it's proportional, but it doesn't work out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u172	That is the discussion we are about to have about biomass. Perhaps we can continue with the questions now. The agreements now are that biomass does not count for that. They also apply internationally, and from that point of view I think it is important to mention them, because that is what the companies are counting on. You can find a lot of that, too, that we need to change that. You have undoubtedly seen that the debate is also taking place in Europe and that proposals may come from there. It's running. The fact is that coal emissions do count and I now have to do something to meet them. I'm trying to set that up in a reasonable way so that companies know what they're up to. If we, as the Netherlands, were to make different demands on our own and apply a different calculation method for emissions, for example on biomass, I think we would only make it more complicated in this sense, including for companies. On that point, I do understand Mrs Faber's statement on an unreliable government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u173	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u174	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. It's not like if we meet, that's true. I'm not going to agree with you now that the sweater you're wearing is white, am I? That's weird, isn't it? I can't follow all that. We cannot say: we agree and then we do! No, it's not. That reminds me of the fairy tale about the Emperor's new clothes. Luckily, you're still wearing clothes, so I don't want to say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u175	I think your question is quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u176	I expected a great deal from this debate, Mr President, but I did not expect this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u177	Things can get really out of hand here sometimes. Secretary of State will do as you wish. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u178	I am not saying that Mrs Faber should simply accept things, I am just saying that the facts at the moment are that these are the agreements. Inside there's a court order that I'll have to act on. If there is another discussion, including at European or international level, and you see it just arise about biomass, then we will also present our position. But right now, this is how it's calculated and where we are. I'm just guessing the discussion's gonna go on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u179	Mr Van der Linden, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u180	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's not just about heels now, it's about clothes. My question is this. The Secretary of State's actually inviting us. She says: I doubt I could have come up with a proposal on which we would have agreed. In that case it is about Mrs Faber, but perhaps it is about the whole Chamber. I think there are two proposals. If you embrace the biomass concept of the CO cycle, you could come up with the proposal to plant a lot of trees. I think that makes everyone happy, and in that reasoning about biomass, this leads to a reduction in CO emissions. That's one. Or two. Breaking that vicious biomass circle and saying, we stop burning trees. These are the two proposals that you could make, for which I believe you could bring the whole Chamber with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u181	My colleague from LNV has a whole tree strategy, which includes planting more trees. That's a sensible point anyway, but that's part of it. So it's already being done. Now, however, we are talking about biomass. In my first committee debate before the House of Representatives, I said something about this in connection with two motions for resolutions on woody biomass for low temperature heat. I mean, it was my first week. We can delete an energy source or a measure on a weekly basis, because we do not think it is appropriate for very many, perhaps good, reasons. Some parties will be less grieved than others if we delete measures, but the fact is that we will not achieve the climate targets anymore and certainly not in an affordable way for the people at home. I am just looking at how the political debate is going, how I can fit it into the goals to which I feel bound, but in a way that is cost-effective. I don't want to burden the people at home with megalomaniacs. That balance makes it possible for us all to find that the insights may have changed or that we no longer support them, Mrs Faber is right: there is nowhere written down that you should stop thinking, but that we then have the responsibility to translate this into what it means. All of our models, once again, some parties will not mind as much as others are based on the fact that these measures currently count. If there was an alternative to, for example, large-scale biomass, which allowed us to replace it in a cost-effective way, then I think we would do the same. But there are no alternatives. If you take it out, it's gonna make it harder for you to reach the targets or not at all. Anyway, that's gonna make it hard for the people at home. As far as I'm concerned, that's a limit. Then we need to see how to reduce it wisely, as you do with woody biomass for low temperature heat. So you're gonna say you're gonna wrap it down, but you're gonna be smart. What does "wise" mean? That I'm achieving my goals, but especially in a way that anyone can experience it. That's just a tough discussion, but standing here every week saying that we don't want another option makes it more expensive in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u182	Which block have you reached by now, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u183	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u184	Which block have you reached by now? What folder?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u185	I have not yet reached any other block than Urgenda, but I am with the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u186	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u187	The measure has been delayed for six months and I am quite right to ask what that means for the purposes and agreements that we have to achieve. We are now focusing on that 49% in 2030, where the 25% of Urgenda is, of course, a path to. That's a consequence of it. The preliminary figures, which are due to come in the autumn, show that these targets are under pressure. We're gonna have to work hard to get them. The measures aimed at coal-fired power stations and the other measures I have just mentioned can still ensure that we achieve the reduction this year. It's possible. If we decide that this is the right way forward, a measure before us today could start in November or December. It can just count for this year's goals. What it will mean exactly, but also what the gap relative to that 25% is exactly at the moment, we do not know yet. That depends on a lot of factors. So I can't say yet. Mr. Chairman. I think I will come to that later, but there were also many comments on the Urgenda statement. I heard: well, you still have an Urgenda pronunciation and we also hear that Urgenda is considering going back to court; what are you going to do? Last Friday, I sent a letter to the House of Representatives stating that, of course, we will continue to respect that court ruling that is in place and that we will keep an eye on what kind of hole there is and what we must do for it. It makes us inventory, but at some point there's a limit in what I can do as a Demissionary Secretary of State. From there it is up to a new cabinet, because it is also about new measures, which may cost money. You have to look at it in its entirety. I have another question from OSF. The judge sided with Urgenda. Now Urgenda goes back to court, as I just said, because the government would not follow the ruling properly. The question is, do I recognize myself in that image? I do not support the view that nothing or too little has been done from the government. A lot has already been done. I have just mentioned the whole list, but I am also standing here because we are going to impose a production restriction on coal plants, precisely because of that ruling. Everyone is free to go to court. I'm not gonna say anything about that at all. That is simply our rule of law and that is the way it should be. However, I have indicated that I find it disappointing, because we are in the middle of the process of taking measures and looking at what they are doing. I think it's a path that could come out more than just getting out of court. But everyone is free to go to court, even if they are not satisfied with how we deal with a court ruling. I'm glad I'm living in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u188	Then we come into the wonderful situation where everyone can create a foundation and say: this is a foundation for this purpose, I'm going to go to court. And then the whole policy needs to be reversed. Of course, you can also say that we are going to restrict access for foundations of this kind. There's got to be a real interest. It is of course quite easy to do that in the Netherlands. And that has very big consequences. It does not mean that we should let this happen as a wave over us and that there would be nothing to do about it. Unless the cabinet just doesn't want it. Of course, that is also possible: that the Urgenda pronunciation was very convenient and that it has accelerated the policy even further. Is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u189	I'll start with the question I got. I would like to make sure that the cabinet decides who gets to go to court and who doesn't. It's about the definition of a rule of law that the government and politics don't make that up. It is up to the judge to say: you have a case or not. And then I have to relate to that. I understand very well that Mr Otten asks: couldn't you have prevented that? Can't you pay attention to it in the laws that exist now? How does this relate, for example, to the Climate Act? Wouldn't it be better to think about that? Those are all kinds of things we're dealing with. Then it may well be that my direction of solution is not Mr Otten's, or vice versa, but that is another debate. However, I do not think that I should go all the way to the front to decide who can go to court. That can never be about politics, I'd think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u190	I disagree. The Code of Civil Procedure shall be adopted by the legislator. In some countries, the potential for class action and so on is much greater than in others. It is therefore indeed the responsibility of the legislator to determine who is admissible in such situations. It doesn't want me to think there would have been anything to do about it. As I said, we have done endlessly here with Minister Grapperhaus and Minister De Jonge, just to correct judgments of judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u191	But now you repeat yourself, Mr. Otten. You now repeat your question for the umpteenth time. Secretary of State, last time an answer to this question, should that differ from previous answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u192	I don't think it's very different, Mr. Chairman. I'm just dealing with a judge's ruling that I have to deal with. That's what I'm trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u193	I'd still like to pick up on what was just going on. I understand the Secretary of State says she can't decide who may or may not go to court. She's absolutely right about that. But I also understand Mr Otten's point. Anyone can start some foundation, organization or NGO, who can then go to court. I have already said here in the Chamber a few years ago, and I think I even tabled a motion on this once that we should stop subsidising NGOs of this kind, which in fact undermine the government's policy. You have now found an opponent in Urgenda, who makes you and also our lives miserable. Isn't it crazy that this organization is actually fed with taxpayers' money? That's weird, right? So my question to the Secretary of State is: should we not even start to stop subsidising this type of organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u194	So if you're gonna put that stuff together, you're gonna say, "I'm gonna give you a grant," but then you're gonna have to act the way I want you to. Then you come into a situation that is, I suppose, not what Mrs Faber means, for example, that you say: the NPO must say what I want, because it gets taxpayers' money. That's one way you shouldn't want to go in a rule of law. I understand the frustration. I know it's happened in several places before. I understand it all. But I think it is up to us to then respect the rule of law and say: okay, of course, in a rule of law these things can also occur. We have to be smart about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u195	Finally, Mrs Faber. I suggest that the Secretary of State now gets a chance to make some meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u196	I meant the other way around: shouldn't we just stop subsidising organisations? If they're so passionate about their interests and ideals, can't they find the money themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u197	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u198	I think I understand the question. My point is that I think that we cannot stop subsidising because someone then chooses to go to court. You shouldn't put those things together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u199	You continue your speech, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u200	Yes. I'm still at the first block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u201	That's a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u202	I had a question from Mr Van der Linden about planting trees to compensate for CO emissions. That's what just came along. I was indeed also talking about the forest strategy of my LNV colleague. Maybe it's nice to have a look at that, too. Perhaps there are other ideas for doing a little more with that. I think it's a very good idea for the climate to plant a lot of trees. I do not think we disagree on that. Then I had a question from Mr Van der Linden. He said that over 40 to 50 years we can also build nuclear power stations for biomass. As technologically neutral as I am: I also think nuclear power plants are a good idea. But we have to do it properly, just like we agreed to here. There's a market consultation going on right now. I hope to get the results soon and then to inform you about what the market says it needs. I think it would be wise to do this properly. As far as I am concerned, and according to all the IPCC studies we have just discussed, it would be a good idea to include nuclear energy in the energy mix in the future, including in our own plans, especially if you have decided to phase out coal. That means that at some point it amounts to gas, hydrogen and storage. But you'll always need another source. Nuclear energy could, of course, be a good thing for that. I know what Mr Pijlman's question will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u203	Mr Pijlman, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u204	Well, I wonder. I'm asking if you speak on behalf of the cabinet. You said: I also think nuclear energy is a good idea. Is that a cabinet position that you are defending now or is it your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u205	That nuclear energy can be part of the energy mix, which is reflected in international research and that the Climate Agreement also refers to it, is entirely in line with what I have just said. The Climate Agreement refers to nuclear energy, but it states that it will not deliver anything before 2030. In addition, the market consultation. Personally, I think it's an interesting technology that I'm not afraid of, which I'm aware of. But everything we do is completely in line with the Climate Agreement and with what has been requested from the Chamber, as in the Dijkhoff motion, which was adopted by a majority. That's the line as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u206	Exactly, but then I'm happy with this nuance. Just now, I thought, you were a little too excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u207	I have always heard my predecessor, Mr Wiebes, say in various debates: personally I am a fan of nuclear energy, but... I thought: I try a little, but I understand that I can't get away with it. I'm with the Christian Union now. There was the question: how topical is the calculation of the PBL now that the ETS price has risen? Has this increase been taken into account in the predictions of the PBL? The estimates of the PBL, including the Climate and Energy Exploration 2020, contain a large number of elements that ETS is part of. It is therefore about gas and coal prices and developments abroad. There are many aspects that affect those estimates. That is why the estimates are always seen afterwards: what was the distance, what are we really standing for, and what are the goals that we are really going to achieve? In October of this year, the new KEV, the climate and energy exploration, which also incorporates the ETS price, will be published. So that weighs a lot of things, but that does a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u208	I welcome the answer, but the question was whether the law is still necessary. Is this law, with the high ETS price, with the high coal price and the fact that the coal power stations are in fact not actually going to reach that production ceiling at the moment? That was the real question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u209	I think it would have been a lot easier if the law weren't needed and we'd still get the effect together. I couldn't agree more. But if you look at this year alone, you'll see that energy prices are rising, and so is the ETS price. This means that 40% of the output is now turned into coal power stations. I've got the numbers. Soon I'll come up with something, so we can go into it a little more deeply. I understand the question, but the law is really needed when you look at what current practice looks like and if you want to be able to effectively steer towards achieving that 25% or get as close to it as possible. Otherwise, there's too much uncertainty. Then we depend on how the market develops. I don't think we should want that. Mr. Chairman. My last question in this folder is from the SGP. Does the government agree with the SGP that a law aimed only at the Netherlands will actually have no impact at international level? That is a valid point. It is good to say that Urgenda has asked for a 25% reduction in the Netherlands. The verdict is therefore also really aimed at "in the Netherlands." So that's what's being directed at, because that's what happened. That is why we have to do it this way anyway. The loss of production is partly absorbed by our own gas plants, which are more efficient than coal plants, and partly by replacement production from abroad. Because most of it is received by Dutch gas plants, I think there will also be a reduction effect at international level. I understand the question, but I think there will be a reduction effect. But the verdict obliges us to look at the Dutch effect. So both of those things are true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u210	If the Secretary of State says this is the last question in this block, I'd like to ask her a few more questions. In response to a question from Mr Pijlman, the Secretary of State said: if we agree to this law, production restrictions can start in November or December and then we will achieve our objectives this year. Does this mean we can count retroactively? Or isn't that the case? One of the questions during my intervention was why we should do this now before recess if the law can only come into force in November or December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u211	Yeah, I think this could contribute to the goals. But if we're going to get that 25%, we won't know until we can figure out what it looked like. So I am not saying that we will by definition be able to do so if the law enters into force by November or December. But it does contribute. How much that is, we have to see. If I understand the question now and remember it correctly, it was whether the law should be now, and whether it could not be treated better if you know what the disadvantage compensation and the AMvB are going to look like. That question came along, too. Isn't it better to bundle these things together? That was a bit of a question, wasn't it? That can't be bundled. I will come to that later, but it cannot be because we need a legislative proposal to tell the coal companies what we are going to do, and because we now need to talk about the disadvantage compensation. So I need company figures to be able to assess that. What's the disadvantage of this particular law? You need that order to do this. The Second Chamber has asked for a suspension procedure with the AMvB. That means it's coming to both rooms. It's gonna take time, too. I've tried to explain that in the pieces that have come to you. In that sense, we actually need to speed up. The law must go through now so that we can get to work on setting up that disadvantage compensation and see what the AMvB could look like, so that you can get to know it and find some of it before we put the law into effect. You'll get out at its fastest in November or December, if we can make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u212	Then I wait for the folder in which these questions are answered in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u213	Then we can go into it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u214	About the maps: I'm counting at least six more folders, including biomass, which you announced, and I thought there'd be a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u215	Biomass is added to that. My next folder would be the production restriction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u216	Are those folders about the same size as the Urgenda folder? That took 45 minutes. Then we know about what we have to take into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u217	Would you prefer that I take a shorter folder in connection with the planning?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u218	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u219	Some are a little shorter than others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u220	You can follow the same order, but I'll take a look at what we need to take into account. Please, be my guest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u221	There were also many questions about the production restriction. As mentioned above, the proposal imposes a production restriction for the years 2021 to 2024. The CO emissions shall be limited to a maximum of 35% of the maximum power. From 2025 onwards, even without measures in the coal sector, it is expected that 25% of the Urgendavonnis will be achieved. This is where other measures under the Climate Agreement will apply. There may be tightenings from Europe. That's what it was about just now. They're all gonna bring us closer to our goals in the years to come. Then you won't need this anymore. I got questions about whether a law is the right way to do this. Many different options have been considered in the inventory. The legal production restriction really seemed to be the only way to be sure in the short term of the steps you can take and thus to achieve the CO reduction. It has also been examined whether it is not possible to impose a more stringent limitation than 35% on coal-fired power stations. That is what the debate in the Lower House with my predecessor was about. A lower percentage, that stricter limitation, does not seem possible. This is mainly due to technical constraints at one plant. That plant burns heavy waste and also animal starch. It has to be in such a way that you can't be below 35%. That is something that has been explicitly looked at. It is not possible to impose different percentages in a law, i.e. to discriminate in that law. So you have to use that as a lower limit. In addition, it is considered whether one coal power station might want to stop altogether on a voluntary basis. Of course, you can always do that. Then it's voluntary. This could therefore be covered by a subsidy. They talk about it and see if that's a realistic story. As soon as we know more about this, of course, I'll come back to you. Those are the trajectories that are now running. Mr Pijlman asked if I had considered going to 25%. Of course, that was an option, but it cannot be for the reasons I have just mentioned. I think I've said all about that. If there's any questions about that later, I'll get to that. Mr Pijlman had another question. He asked whether other plants had also requested a broadening of the licence. I understood that as "licensing for more biomass." I see him nodding. There are no plans of these plants. Those permits go through the county, not through the Empire. There are no other plans known. Uniper's Amer-9 and MPP3 now all have permits for them, and mostly for biomass, in existing coal plants. Mr Pijlman knows that, I think. I think he was particularly interested in broadening permits. I don't know them now. Mr Crone of the PvdA asks me how the Netherlands is going to ensure that it is catching up with other countries. Is it possible, for example, for Germany to stop using lignite plants more quickly, so that we can keep the coal plants open for longer? I must say that I had a little short-circuit when I was asked in this Chamber from the PvdA and the Christian Union whether you should want this. Across the street, the debate went a little differently. But that's good, too. That keeps me on edge. There is intensive contact and coordination with Germany. Mr Crone is right that it started a long time ago. That's not new at all. In our country and in Germany there are parallel pathways to phase out coal power plants and promote renewable energy. The starting point of the transition in Germany is of course different and the route they choose is entirely up to them. We try to keep it in alignment, because Mr Crone is of course right in saying that how we deal with it has an impact on each other. We have chosen to phase out coal in 2030. We are talking today about measures for the next four years. Germany makes different choices in this respect. Mr Crone is right about that. They say that the lignite plants should close by 2038, but the German government is now looking with two operators to see if they can phase out faster. They are also looking, of course, at how they can act in their own context. I think it is good to note that, in the international context, including in the discussions with Europe, which will take place this summer, we are really in favour of tightening up the ETS system so that it will become more efficient and more and more consistent in Europe. Each country, each Member State, will have its own path. Mr. Chairman. The verdict regarding Urgenda is ultimately about what you do in the Netherlands, but I already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u222	Thanks for the answer. You will have to get used to the fact that I am very much in favour of market forces, as well as international cooperation. With this combination, you can achieve more CO reduction at lower costs. I would therefore like to encourage you to run a little faster in that regard than perhaps your predecessor has done. Are you willing that... There are elections there, but we can still hear... Germany wants to get back faster, like you said. We can take advantage of that. That's a win for all parties. We are talking about one union per group. It is a German group with large interests in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u223	I must say that I find Mr Crone's thinking particularly sensible. I am not saying anything about his colleagues on the other hand, but this is indeed a fine line. But within the agreements made, the verdict, the fact that Urgenda is aimed at the Netherlands and the European agreements, these are, of course, the alignments with the countries around us. They simply affect the way we deal with our energy here, and vice versa. I'd like to take the signal with me. If I can interpret it this way from my missionary status, I think we'll come a long way. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a number of questions, from among others the Christian Union, the OSF and the Party for Animals, why the law does not apply until 2025. Are we sure that 25% will be reached after 2024? If I interpret it correctly, that was the question. Or is it conceivable that it should be extended after 2024? If you look at all the calculations we have now and all the measures we have planned, which are on the role or are being carried out, such as under the Climate Agreement, think of the CO levy and so on, then we are convinced that you can assume that it will be sufficient if the law applies until 2024. After that, all the other measures will come into effect that will help you achieve your goals. An extension after 2024 would therefore not be considered. It is important to communicate well now, in advance, so that you can make very clear agreements about, for example, the loss compensation. That is why, on the basis of all the information, we have now said: until then, and then we will catch it in a different way. I have a question for Mr Van Ballekom. That was an interesting question, which I had to dive into. I wonder what he thinks of my answer. The question was: how is Clean and Economical defined in the permits of the coal plants? That's not so literally defined. The permits clearly state that there are high environmental requirements. This is designed for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. It was also clearly expected that the new plants would be as ready as possible in terms of CO capture and storage, CCS. That kind of agreement was made in such a permit, but Clean and Economical is not literally defined in that sense. Probably Mr Van Ballekom was looking for such an explanation on how that would come back. Furthermore, the intention of the plants to apply CCS has not been realised. I think I'm through my little folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u224	What the hell is this, Urgenda, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u225	This was already the folder production restrictions, so the second folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u226	If necessary, you can start with the following folder. In four minutes, we're gonna suspend for dinner break. If it's more pleasurable for you to suspend now, so can you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u227	If you'd like, I have one question here about security of supply. In theory, it should be possible in those few minutes. There were some questions and concerns about security of supply. So maybe it's good to mention that point. With this bill, coal power plants can still supply electricity quickly if necessary. The maximum of 35% applies for a whole year. If you do it in November or December, you have to look at it explicitly, but of course it applies for a whole year. They are therefore available throughout the year to supply electricity to meet demand if the sun doesn't shine, the wind doesn't blow and we get into trouble with it. Mr. Chairman. TeneT has made monitoring reports and the latest reports show that the security of electricity supply will be in order in the coming years if you do this in this way. I thought it would be a good idea to mention that here. This is because we have sufficient production capacity and, in the case of hours of shortages, we can use the large amount of interconnections with other countries, including Germany, Denmark and Norway. This security of supply is therefore in place throughout Europe, North-West Europe and certainly in the Netherlands. That's where Germany's coal phasing out was taken into account. These are all dynamics that you need to take with you, so that you do not then let your own security of supply in the Netherlands depend on the policies and policies of other countries. So that's completely balanced by TeneT. That's how I finished my "supply security" folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u228	I have a brief question for the Secretary of State. Does this security of supply have a cost effect, because it is complicated and not efficient? Or will the Secretary of State return to that in another folder?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u229	The cost effect of the bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u230	I specifically mean the cost effect of not delivering it in full, so because you can only deliver part of it, it is more expensive to have to deliver that stand-by intermittent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u231	If it's okay, I'd better get back to that after dinner break, but that hardly has any effect. If it's all right with you, I'll explain later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u232	Agreed. Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u233	Then I would like to ask about the concept of clean and economical. This is clearly not laid down in the permit itself. Perhaps this is a question before after dinner, so that you can check the answer, but has the concept evolved? In other words, at the time the licence was granted, we had a certain interpretation of that concept, which is different at the moment than at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u234	I'm gonna take another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u235	I have a quick question. The security of supply is guaranteed, because coal plants can be restarted or produce more if necessary. But we're not gonna make it to the climate target, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u236	It's always looking for a balance. Because of the 35% maximum combined with the gas plants that we still have here running with gas from the small fields we have in the Netherlands, we can move forward in this way for the time being. We really have a very special, unique gas infrastructure in the Netherlands. TeneT's analysis is now that this bill does not interfere with the security of supply and can at least get closer to that goal. If we're gonna make it, we're gonna see. Let us be clear that, as far as I am concerned, we are not going to surrender in any way to security of supply. It can't be that we're gonna be sitting in the dark, or that our hospitals aren't gonna be able to function because we've done something crazy. That is why we constantly ask TeneT to analyse and balance that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u237	Thank you. Then it's 5:10 p.m. and I'm suspending for dinner break until 6:10 p.m. Not 6:15 p.m., 6:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u238	The next item is the continuation of the debate on legislative proposal 35668, Amendment of the law on the prohibition of coal in electricity production in connection with the reduction of CO emissions. We're going to prosecute the government's first term. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate - Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna continue with the folder on disadvantage compensation. I'll start with a question from Mr. Crone of the PvdA. He asked whether compensation would be necessary at 35% reduction in a shrinking market. Why do you do that? Isn't it more logical to say that this falls under the entrepreneurial risk? So why compensate? I fully agree with the PvdA when he says this when it comes to the law on the use of coal in 2030. We have also been very clear about this and there is also a deadline for companies to work towards. It's very clear what's coming. That is also the line we are pursuing in the procedures we are now in the middle of. When discussing the question of whether compensation for damage is needed in this legislative proposal, there are actually two options that need to be taken into account. I had questions about this earlier from the Christian Union. One: you could say that the power stations don't deserve anything at all. Is it necessary for you to do this, and why is it necessary to compensate for disadvantages? Or two: the power stations may be earning now, but a changing market will not make them any more. So it is said that the power stations do not earn anything now or that they are not profitable now, and that compensation would not be necessary. I also said to the Christian Union: if that were the case, if we had known for sure, knew for sure and would continue to know, then the bill would indeed not have been necessary. But I think it is necessary in the short term, because it does bring about this reduction in CO emissions and therefore limits power stations. It is true that the ETS price has risen considerably, but as I said earlier, the price of electricity has also increased enormously. As a result, the margins for coal-fired power stations have not become much worse. That is the current practice. Coal-fired power plants are currently not released from the market as a result of this ETS price. We can see that from the production figures I was just talking about. I promised I'd come back to that. According to CBS figures, electricity production from coal increased by more than 40% in the first quarter of this year. I actually said that a moment ago. So that happened despite the high ETS price. So if you look at it that way, and if you see the build-up of that story, you'll come up with a need for disadvantage compensation. Therefore, when imposing a legal restriction on production of coal power plants, we must take into account the ownership of the companies. We need to look at what one deserves and what one could have earned. And we must abide by Article 1 of the First Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights. There must be a fair balance between, on the one hand, the general interest that we serve with each other and, on the other hand, the interests of the company. Those interests of the company are now, of course, deeply affected by what we do. In this case, loss compensation is necessary in order to achieve fair balance, partly because the measure of the present production restriction was not foreseeable for the companies. So that is different from the ban on coal; that is simply a big difference. As this measure was not foreseeable, there is no normal entrepreneurial risk. Then you could say: the power stations do deserve now, but the market is changing, so they won't be making any more money. You can ask: so why do you have to compensate for disadvantages? Of course, that electricity market is on the move. That's what we want. We'll even contribute to it ourselves. I therefore take this into account in the calculations of the disadvantage compensation, using the most up-to-date market information. So we are really looking at this when we calculate that disadvantage and the latest developments are taken into account. Some changes are not yet foreseeable. So that's what we're going to see in the future. These changes are therefore not yet priced in the market information. That is why we include in the AMvB a correction mechanism, especially for the things that we cannot see coming now when you can assume that things are going to happen, because that market is, of course, on the move. With this correction mechanism, we look annually at whether or not the plant is limited by this measure. We have also seen in practice: in the past year the plant has stopped, for example because of faults. It could be anything. Then you have to look specifically at whether it happened because of the measure we are talking about today. If the plant is not limited by this, then there is no disadvantage, and then we are going to recover a disadvantage compensation. That's how it's decorated now. In doing so, we ensure that the entrepreneurial risk, which should remain at the plant, remains with the plant and the taxpayer does not pay for it. That's really how we're building and decorating it now. I think that's the most important explanation of why we're doing the compensation, why we have to do it, but also how we're trying to make sure you don't overcompensate and that you're just compensating for the part that's really coming from the bill that's before us today. Mr Crone said that there might be a recalculation. He asked if I could explain whether that would be legally feasible. How does that work, he asked. As I said, a correction mechanism will be included in the AMvB, which is a correction to the pre-calculated disadvantage. We have to do this in advance, for example because Europe requires us to do so, because you can show us how you handle it. If you didn't do that afterwards, you'd just be less in your right, even as a government. But you can build in that you correct it afterwards if it turns out to be different. There is therefore no ex post calculation, it is an ex post correction of an ex ante calculation. I think I've said the most official sentence in a month, but it's exactly how it is, so it's important to say it. This means that, in advance, it is clear to the power stations what compensation they will receive, with which I respect the legal obligation of the ECHR, which I have just mentioned. They're getting pre-litigation. But we also ensure that we can correct afterwards if it turns out that we have not calculated it in any way and for whatever reason, so that the taxpayer does not pay extra for it. This is also legally sustainable, as the compensation granted would not be necessary and would therefore be overcompensation. And overcompensation can be taken back. Mr Crone, Mr Van Ballekom, Mrs Huizinga, Mrs Faber and Mr Pijlman, in fact everyone, have asked whether there is priority for the First Chamber for loss compensation, so that you can check the parameters from budgetary law and the business case. So it's coming here, too? Yes, the AMvB will be submitted to the First and Second Chambers by means of a pending procedure. Then it goes to the Council of State. Mr Van Ballekom asked why this is so, whether all this can be combined and what the order looks like. That period may not exceed 25% in the recess and shall last for a minimum of four weeks. In view of the short time to recess, the front suspension period will in any case take until after the summer recess. We do want to start as soon as possible, because the faster we start, the faster it can start and the faster it can contribute to the goals. The pending procedure starts after the European Commission has informally agreed with the AMvB and the Advisory Board on Control Pressure has carried out a control pressure test on the AMvB. So that's the business we have to do nicely. As far as I am concerned, we can start with this as soon as possible and do it all as quickly as possible. Mr Van Ballekom asked when the AMvB would go to the Council of State for an opinion. To put it right again: the draft AMvB on loss compensation will be submitted for advice to the Council of State after the pending procedures have been completed in both chambers of the States General. So first to the two chambers and then to the Council of State. Mr Koffeman asked the question: how are we going to pay for this disadvantage compensation? As with the announcement of the package of measures, the measure is paid from the available space in the SDE+. It ensures that this use of resources is not at the expense of long-term objectives. This commitment of resources therefore does not limit the achievement of the 49% CO reduction agreed in 2030. I still had the question, but I think I have already discussed it in detail why the law does not come into force until the loss compensation is known. That is because we need the law so that we can properly set up this disadvantage compensation, because we can then go to the companies with the law and say that we need the information on which we can then base that disadvantage compensation. I come to Mr Raven of OSF. "Great damages have been paid to investors. It was known that there were risks." I think his question is about the Coal Ban Act, which prohibits the use of coal as a fuel for electricity generation in 2030. There is therefore no loss compensation, no financial compensation. We believe that this is an entrepreneurial risk. So that's really different from what we're doing here today. It is precisely about the lack of compensation that the power stations have brought legal proceedings. That is where we defend ourselves, where we also say clearly: this is the part that you could have seen coming, here we are in a different way. It is now up to the court to decide whether compensation should be paid. So it is independent of the temporary production restriction we are talking about today. Looks like I'm out of harm's way, Mr. Chairman. Then I had a question from Mr Crone. Indeed, we are talking very easily about the closure of coal power stations or a reduction in production, but there are of course a lot of people who are either following this debate or not reading about it. It is also about their jobs, so you have to take care of them properly and properly, especially in advance, so that there is no uncertainty about them. We saw it at the closure of the Hemweg plant. In addition, the context was different. There we were able to make very good agreements and ensure that those people were not on the streets. Vattenfall also took care of that himself. I believe that for less than a handful, for five people there is still a path to another job. Luckily, the rest turned out okay, too. So we think it is very important to protect employees. It's not easy for us to do that. We're not gonna do that. The implementation of the AMvB is prepared by the Minister of SZW. It is now being considered exactly what conditions should apply here. The AMvB, the general measure of governance, lays down the rules on the fund and on the way in which benefits are provided and investments in retraining and further training are made. So there is still a whole process that we are very serious about. Since it is about a production restriction, I have to say that it is expected that this will have less direct impact on what the workers do there. We don't expect a lot of people to be on the streets, but we're not going to think about that easily at any time. This is well taken care of, just as we did in the Hemwegcentrale section, although the context was different there. Then I'll be at the coal tax, Mr. Chairman. There were some questions from Mr Koffeman. He says, "Why do all this and not a coal tax?" I think what we're doing now is much tighter and more effective than a coal tax. Here you can really send on so that what you're doing is going to have the effect you'd like. We have opted for a reduction in production rather than a coal tax, because then we can certainly control the maximum emissions of the plants, regardless of the development of the market. We choose not to add this coal tax to the production limit, as this is not expected to lead to additional CO emissions or limited emissions. I understand the question very well, but it's not nearly as effective as what we're about to do. Then Mr Koffeman had the question of how the coal tax compares to the compensation. These coal-fired power stations are exempt from coal tax and therefore do not incur any costs. They are therefore not, of course, compensated for the disadvantage compensation either. Then I am with biomass, an important point, about which a lot of questions have rightly been asked. Perhaps it is good to mention the differences very briefly. In the sustainability framework for bio-raw materials, the cabinet endorsed the classification of the ESC in the opinion on bio-raw materials, including the final picture outlined therein. On the one hand, you have low-quality applications that, according to the SER, do not fit in the final image. Alternatives will be available in the short term, or they are already available. The policy must be aimed at phasing out. For example, biomass for energy use. Recently there has been a debate on this in the Lower House. Several motions have been adopted asking for a phasing-out path. At the same time, it was said in the House of Representatives that the dates for such a phasing-out path, for example the PBL report, were declared controversial. I have submitted to the House of Representatives: if this is the state of affairs, I now assume that I cannot include that low-quality use of woody biomass in the new round of subsidies of the SDE++; do I have the right Second Chamber, because pay attention, we are going to achieve the goals more difficult and it is going to be more expensive for the people at home. The House of Representatives has taken note of this. The state of play is that in the next round of subsidies, which will be published in the coming weeks, this low-grade use of woody biomass has not been included. This does not mean that we cannot do that next year, but that means that a sensible phasing-out path will hopefully be part of the discussions for a new cabinet. Then you have bridging applications that fit in the transition perspective. Then you can think of fuels for aircraft or shipping. And then you have the high-quality applications that fit in the desired final image. It's important to tear these things apart, I guess. In doing so, policies must be geared towards building up. Then it is about replacing fossil raw material in, for example, chemistry and as building material, as a replacement of concrete. But then it is also about high temperature applications in industry, because that is also good to report. When it comes to very high temperatures, bio-based materials seem to have a lasting role to play. In the production of glass and ceramics there seems to be no alternative. I understand that hydrogen is not suitable for this either; that is what I have been asking for. At the moment, there seems to be no alternative. If you pull that out, you're gonna put those companies and that sector in a bind right away. Mr Schalk of the SGP asked about CO emissions from biomass. We just talked about it. The bottom line is that CO released when biomass is burned has been absorbed relatively recently by that biomass from the atmosphere. For this reason, the burning of biomass does not count in the national emissions and emissions of a coal power plant. These are not things that we have come up with ourselves as the Netherlands, but these are the international agreements that we have both worldwide and European. This is how it's decorated right now. Mrs Huizinga asked whether we could quickly start monitoring CO emissions from biomass. I'll give you the answer, then you can determine if it came close to what you meant. Biomass emissions are already monitored by showing how many kilos of biomass are used for energy applications. This is a different way from other energy sources, but it is a kilo of biomass. On this basis, CO emissions can be determined. Earlier this week I sent a letter to the House of Representatives on how CO emissions from biomass are determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u240	Short question. The Secretary of State states that the CO emissions from biomass do not count. But there is CO emissions, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u241	The prevailing agreement regarding the technique is at present: there is emissions but because it is also fairly recently absorbed from the atmosphere by that biomass, opinions differ as to whether that is a reasonable reasoning or not, you have a circle that does not count in the emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u242	I suggest I not repeat those biology lessons with the Secretary of State. For me, it is clear: there is also CO emissions from biomass. When it's said it doesn't count when it is, it makes me feel like we're not doing it quite in the right way. Even if the whole world says it doesn't count, that's not the point. It's about whether you actually achieve a reduction and that doesn't happen anymore when something is burned and then it's said: it gives CO but we don't count it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u243	That's because the story doesn't stop there. There are sustainability frameworks that are subject to high standards. Under the LULUCF Regulation, a country is also accounted for by the change in CO uptake by forests. So it's not totally noncommittal. It's not like you just cut down trees and nothing else happens to them. CO emissions are indeed released, but because you make sure that circle is complete on the other hand, it doesn't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u244	That is, of course, at the heart of the matter. If we maintain that reasoning, then we must note that if we do not support this coal law amendment and we plant trees, we are there. Then those trees will be planned and that CO will be absorbed and we will not have to support this coal law at all. Isn't that much more sensible in that argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u245	The limitation on the coal law concerns the cessation of coal, but the production restriction now before us is only aimed at coal. So coal plants are free to use biomass for that. We don't give any more subsidies, but they could use them. They can also use the decisions they still have. This really only focuses on CO emissions from coal burning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u246	I understand that, but at the same time we are still burning trees in biomass plants. If we stop that and let go of the construction of those forests that are in that circular reasoning, then we can just make another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u247	This function of coal-fired power stations, for example the one coal-fired power station which burns heavy waste and animal starch, cannot be taken over by another power station which is not equipped for this purpose. You have different applications. As far as the low-value application is concerned, I believe that there is a broad consensus on this, which is also, on the advice of researchers, that it should have a phasing-out path and that it does not fit in with the final picture. I have the feeling that sometimes the discussions get mixed up. When it comes to high-quality application, there is not just an alternative to biomass. This production restriction is also 35% and not lower, because this is not possible with, for example, the specific coal power plant. That's about different burn layers. In each burner layer, a different type of fuel must be used to burn at the level necessary for those heavy wastes and for animal starch. This is again subject to legal requirements, because if we did not do so in that way, it would also mean something for our health. You hear I'm trying to tell a very technical story in summary, but this is what it is. So it is not that we have a lot of alternatives and space for that. You're gonna need coal for a while, too. That's why we reached that 35%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u248	Mr. Van der Linden, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u249	That's a very technical answer. I note that, fortunately, the Secretary of State is also struggling with this bizarre paradox. The alternative is to say stop burning trees, right? Then the coal plants can stay open. Fortunately, the plantings will continue, but you will no longer burn those trees in power stations. That's just an alternative, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u250	I think it's good to say that biomass is not just trees. But neither is the discussion now. I understand the message. I have just referred to the high-quality use of biomass. For glass and ceramics, for example, you really need it. That makes it a very complicated story. I fully understand that the low-quality use of woody biomass clearly shows that this is simply an endgame. If we are very honest, there will always be a part of the final picture when it comes to the high-quality use of biomass. That is why I mentioned this at the beginning of my speech on biomass. Then you'd better look at how to make sure it's circular and how to do it in a good way than say "no." By saying to an x-number of companies, you have to stop. But people work there, too. We are, of course, responsible for doing this right. I think we should take that responsibility. Then you say to whole sectors and industries "you can't use that anymore" when you know there's no alternative. I don't think that's something you should want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u251	I do agree with Mr Van der Linden. If the alternative is worse than the original, then you shouldn't do the alternative. Two. I also agree with him: the more trees you plant, the better, because trees capture CO. But you'll be punished if you cut down trees. That's also in the readings. Every country that cuts down too many forests is punished. That's all being measured, all over the world, for a long time. My question now is: if you change that and give CO punishment again, you're going to punish twice, namely for burning CO and for the CO of the trees you've ever cut down. That's why I'm against that tree hood, by the way. I think that is about the international reasoning. Therefore, should we not go to short-cycle biomass, my question is. Short-cycle biomass is: the sun has recently captured it. And: the remains of sugar beet or something. If you leave that on land, CO will go into the air. Then turn it into energy. That is why I am asking for the distinction between That's the solution. That's why we all don't want trees in a coal power plant anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u252	I think that's a match, too. Let me put it this way. I'm not prepared to go into this very specifically. Then I'll say things that don't add up. Of course, you have tight sustainability frameworks. They are much stricter in the Netherlands than in the rest of Europe. We are much stricter in that and see if it is a sensible story. I understand the questions, but then I think we should all acknowledge that you're going to need it for that high-quality application. Then, of course, Mr Crone is right when he says that you should take a look at what I call the sustainability framework. Inside you can look at these kinds of elements and stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u253	I'm making it a short-cycle interruption, Mr President: I'm quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u254	Look. But Mr Schalk will take it from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u255	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I understand that this is necessary for some sectors. We have seen throughout the treatment so far that we also need biomass in order to eliminate capacity shortages. That's what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u256	In terms of security of supply?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u257	In the sense that biomass is therefore being destroyed. That'll get us CO. We are doing this in relation to capacity shortages. That is also in your written response, so we assume that this is also true. We should not mix that with those high-quality sectors that also need biomass to burn glass or something like that. I don't know exactly how it works. Here we are talking about CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u258	Yes, and then we will come to the debate we have just had. In the international context, this is how it is agreed. Indeed, CO emissions do not count for the reason that has recently been included for the same biomass. But perhaps you have been given the opportunity to speak, and I think I said just before dinner break that the debate is of course also taking place in Europe. I think I heard Mr Samsom say last week: this is something we have to look at, because it is European and international rules. At the same time, I have heard him say, even if you look at the European context and in the Netherlands, that you cannot just stop at once or change this completely and then come up with all the measures you have devised. You're gonna have to look at it meaningfully at some point: do you want to go through with it? Don't you want to go through with it? Is that a choice and what does it look like? I do not yet have the impression that this is going to come from Europe. It could be coming up with plans from Europe in the coming months. Perhaps then there will be new frameworks and then we will see how we will fit them in again. You shouldn't want to do that as the Netherlands itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u259	Following on from Mr Schalk's question, I would like to ask an almost similar question. On the one hand, it concerns the high-quality biomass needed for the glass industry. On the other hand, we are talking about 30% of coal plants where there is probably no need to add high-quality biomass. That's two different things, isn't it? Surely one cannot lift or compensate the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u260	I don't think I fully understand the question. It is indeed two separate cases. In the decision before us, we say that we are introducing a production restriction for coal. It is possible that coal plants will then continue to use biomass and do so on top of it, because there are still decisions for that. We haven't given any new grant decisions for biomass since 2017, but they are still there. That option does exist. Then you get the discussion we just had whether that counts in the CO emissions or not. Right now it doesn't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u261	I get the impression that we see biomass as a kind of transition fuel and that all this is being phased out, but last year the Netherlands had a record import of wood pallets, so it's still going on. There are really cargoes coming from America and the Baltic states. It really cannot be maintained that these are twigs and residual streams that have already fallen off the trees. They're really completely cut down forests. The moment you're looking for a transition fuel, I can imagine you saying: we want to get rid of the coal and we need to do something else in the meantime. We have complete gas plants in the mothballs. So it's hard to explain why you cut down entire forests and transport them here by ship, pulling in record numbers and yet saying that it's only temporary and that it's actually about twigs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u262	I never said that. I never said "it's about twigs." The reason I started the biomass block with the different applications is to tear this apart. You are quite right, of course. You have the low-grade use of biomass, which the ESC also says you have to reduce. I have just said that we want to cut it down. The House of Representatives has now declared the phasing-out path controversial and I assume that a new cabinet will come up with a sensible phasing-out path so that you can bring it down properly. Why is a sensible phasing-out path important? If you do that too quickly, you will not achieve goals in the built environment and in the greenhouse horticulture and it will become more expensive for the people at home. So it has to be done in a sensible way. I don't think anyone thinks otherwise than that's gonna happen. Then you have the block for the transition of shipping and airplanes. That's in the phase that it's going to have to as long as it can't be done in any other way. And then you have that high-quality application. There are sectors in which you will still use biomass in the final picture. I think you should tear these things apart. We have agreed sustainability frameworks with each other, whereby we are stricter in the Netherlands than in the rest of Europe. We're saying that you can't just cut down primordial forests and think nobody's looking at that. That's not how we do it. That is also not how it works and what the approach is and what the frameworks are in the Netherlands. That's what it looks like in the end. When we concluded the Climate Agreement with each other, it was part of all our plans and models to roll this out in a way that we said with each other: we achieve the goals in a cost-effective way. This is important for people at home, SMEs and businesses. If, after a few years, you say that it is possible that those low-value applications are not so good after all, then you have to see if there is an alternative, at what time it is there and whether it is still cost-efficient. That's why I think you really need to look at those blocks separately. As has been argued here, you should not throw them into one pile, because they simply have different functions. I couldn't agree more. Some applications can be replaced by hydrogen, for example. But with an installation for ceramics and glass, for example, that is not possible, I understand. I don't think we should talk about it too easily. That's why I just had the debate, because you have to take that responsibility. If a company can't find an alternative and we've all found it okay a few years ago and we still have international agreements, then we have to look at it fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u263	That is clear, but I am curious how we could have imported a record quantity of biomass last year, regardless of the category, while we are talking about phasing it out. Can the Secretary of State give us an idea of the pace at which we're going to cut it down? I can't get that image yet. Why should transition fuel be sought in biomass for the time being, when complete gas plants will be ready to operate within six months? I don't have that answer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u264	As a spokesperson, I was rather involved in the Climate Agreement and the Climate Act. Until recently, we said about these gas plants that we weren't going to do that anymore, especially when you see how we got our gas, namely from Groningen. We agreed at that time that we would reduce the use of natural gas. That had both climate engineering reasons and the reasons we know from Groningen, the earthquakes. Those reasons were far apart, but the discussions played in parallel. We said then, also in the debate on the Climate Agreement: although they are separate reasons, beware, we are a unique country with a very fine-meshed gas infrastructure and a huge gas field, but that is all going to change. Are we going to decide for ourselves that we want to be dependent on countries like Russia for a very long time, or are we going to see how we can organise that transition to as independent as possible? Totally independent will never work. In that transition biomass plays a role again. So I understand the inconvenience, but that's exactly the transition we're in. It is not that I am a fan of some technique, measure or energy source, but if you say with every energy source that we do not want it, for very good reasons, there is very little left for the transition. Either you don't go through that transition, or you make her priceless. So you're not gonna go through with her, either. That's the complicated thing we're facing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u265	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u266	I understand very well. It's also a complicated theme. If you don't want to be dependent on Russia for gas, or other suppliers like Norway, then you don't want to be dependent on the United States or on Belarusian states to bring truncated forests here? I think it is important to remove the divisions between the various decisions that have been made, agreements that have been made and fiduciary agreements: we simply do not count it, so we pretend it is not there. If you find that biomass doesn't bring what you ever thought of it, then you have to be able to get back on your feet at some point, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u267	That is, for example, the phasing-out path that we have for the low-value application, so for the heat grids to heat houses. It is now widely stated by politicians that it needs to be phased out. I took over because the Chamber asked me to. It is also said that as long as you do not have a sensible phasing-out path, you will no longer grant new subsidies. At the same time, the Chamber said to me: you shouldn't go down the road either, because the subject is controversial. So we couldn't provide any more subsidies. Something is happening in this sense, but the effect of this is not yet visible. We're gonna go through that with each other. I also shared that, because the PBL and a quickscan from TNO show that it means that you will probably meet the goals in the built environment and in greenhouse horticulture later and that it will be more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u268	I'm kind of intrigued by the biomass debate. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly what would go wrong in the economy if we stopped doing so? I would like that to be clear, because we are now going to do something that puts the credibility of legislation to the test, in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u269	Maybe we should pull two things apart. The law before us today deals with the limitation of coal production. A minimum of 35% is needed, because, for example, one coal plant cannot use less than 35% of coal, otherwise it will not be able to burn the heavy waste and the animal starch, which must be processed somewhere. That's what you need. But if the question is what that looks like in the Netherlands, even if you are talking about that high-quality application that I just mentioned when I gave as an example the glass and ceramics industry, where there are no alternatives, then I would like to pledge it with all my love in a good analysis, because then it is really about something. But I think you should tear those things apart. That's my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u270	With all due respect to the glass and ceramics industry, but if that's what it's all about... I'd like to know more about the extent of the economic damage if we stop using that biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u271	The high-quality application, then? It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u272	It's more about: what happens if we stop? How many companies are going to be in trouble? And can't they work with coal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u273	No, but now there's gonna be discussions again. For stopping the low-value use of biomass at once, I let it be pulled apart again, focused on heat grid and the like, there is a quickscan of TNO, in which those costs are very clear. That quickscan has already gone to the Lower House, but I will send it to your Chamber as well. Those costs will probably also land with households, if you stop doing so at once. That's one. An analysis is also necessary for the high-quality application. I can't make that up here on a beer pint right now. As an example, I mentioned the glass and ceramics industry, but it is wider. I can also undertake that analysis. I think it's gonna take a little more time to map that out. For the low-value application we had already done at the request of the Dutch Parliament. So that's possible, too. When it comes to the decision that is now before us, at least you need 35% at a specific coal plant. So you need the coals. Then we can talk about whether we can remove the decisions that these plants already have for biomass, but those coal plants will continue to run wild. By the way, we also need them for our security of supply. I'd like to have these things pulled apart and come back to that in a letter. I say "for a moment," but it's a slightly more complicated analysis that can't be made for a second. But I'd like to do that if your room appreciates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u274	I'm not convinced yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u275	Me neither. We're not getting an answer either. The answer of the Secretary of State is very reminiscent of that circular reasoning about CO. We hear the same story over and over again. I thought the question was very clear: what is the economic damage if we stop using biomass now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u276	Of the low-quality or high-quality application?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u277	That ceramics is a side show. We do not need to talk about this in detail. Most forests go into those power plants. What would be the damage if we stopped doing that today? That's not such a difficult question, is it? That's why I'm gonna ask him again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u278	Just a minute about those decisions. We have not provided any new subsidies for biomass combustion in coal plants since 2017. So those decisions are there, but we no longer issue new decisions. The power stations that have a decision can use it. And the moment they want to do it without a grant, they can just do it. I think it's useful to say that here. So it is not the case that new subsidies are being given now and that the money would matter if we stopped doing so. New subsidies will not be granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u279	I understand, Secretary of State, that you are giving a letter with the answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u280	Well, I'd like to go into more detail on what the economic consequences would be if you took out that high-quality application. But I do want to say that we should not put aside the jobs, businesses and sectors in which people who depend on them for their rent and daily income, as a side show. I think it is important to be able to give a good analysis of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u281	Is it possible to send that letter to the Chamber by next Friday at the latest? The vote on this bill is next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u282	No, but I can answer exactly what the decisions are. In addition, the existing decisions concern 3.5 billion in the case of biomass in coal-fired power stations. I can get that straight one more time. That's been shared before, so I can do that. But an in-depth analysis of the effect if you stopped doing that high-quality application of biomass and what that means for the Dutch industry and the different sectors, is really separate from the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u283	You'll admit it in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u284	I'll say it in due course. In a letter for Friday, I would, of course, like to mention specifically the 3.5 billion, for example, and how it was built up. That's been shared before, but I'd love to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u285	That letter could be in on Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u286	I think so. I'll check it out for my second term. But if it is specifically about this bill and the coal-fired power stations, then we can make it easier to understand when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u287	One more question. I did not ask for funding, because it should have been stopped a long time ago as far as we are concerned. Mr Van Kesteren also asked the question: what would be the damage to the Dutch economy if we stopped doing so? In what order of magnitude and in what direction should we see it, according to the Secretary of State? That would be very enlightening for next Tuesday's vote. It would therefore be nice if the Secretary of State could promise that this will be taken into account in this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u288	Perhaps it would be a good idea if I returned to how I interpret this question in the second term. I can't answer the question of how you could just quit biomass on Friday. It doesn't have much to do with the bill either. But I think I understand the question. It is about coal-fired power stations and the use of biomass. In the second term, I will come back to the question of whether I can come back to it on Friday and then exactly, so that Members are not disappointed if certain parts of the answer are missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u289	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u290	I'm going on. I come to Mr Ballekom of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u291	From Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u292	Sorry, I knew it was Mr Van Ballekom. I am very sensitive in that respect, because my last name is always said wrongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u293	Mine too!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u294	Is it known whether there are alternatives to operators? Actually, we've already talked about that. The power stations are suitable for generating electricity from fuels other than coal. This is also apparent from other licences issued by the various power stations. We have just talked very specifically about biomass, but instead of coal, they can also use biodiesel, hydrogen, gas or ammonia for electricity generation. It depends on what's needed for which plant. But there are alternatives. Mr. Pijlman had another question about keeping biomass in the Eemshaven. What about the permit at the Eemshaven? As mentioned earlier, these permits are issued by the province. That is the competent authority in this case. The province of Groningen has approved an environmental permit for RWE which allows for more biomass to be used. I will not grant any additional subsidy to encourage the use of biomass, because that is what we agreed with each other. I had a similar question from Mr Koffeman: who says that old subsidies are not extended for additional and most of them? I will not grant new subsidies, nor will I renew old subsidies. In my view, this has given us more or less biomass. Then all I have left is the folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u295	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u296	Is it true I don't see Mr. Arrowman? Oh, there you are. Mr Raven of OSF says to encourage sunshine on company roofs. In order to replace coal, an additional arrangement will be introduced. I do not think that solar PV can entirely replace coal, but it is of course very important. We work with various regulations to stimulate solar PV. I am thinking of the balancing of households and small businesses, of the ISDE for SMEs, of the incentive scheme for energy cooperatives and of the SDE++ for large corporate roofs. It is nice to say that for the last SDE++ more than 3,000 grant decisions have been issued. So it goes very hard with sun-PV and specifically with the use of the company roofs. That's going very well. Mr Raven also said that pension fund managers are denying the climate problem. Can we make them pay for their unsustainable past choices? The investment policy of pension fund managers is really their own investment policy. I can't interfere with that from this place. In general, sustainable investment is encouraged, including for these pension funds. I also think that their investment portfolio is increasingly greening. Mr Dessing asked: what are the total cost of implementing the law now before citizens and industry? The costs involved in this legislative proposal are actually the level of that disadvantage compensation. I don't have the level of that yet, because for that we have to pass the law with each other first. The level of this is not yet known. There must be compensation for damage first. Then we'll have to pay for the downside. We are not going to overcompensate anyway; I have just explained that we should be able to look at this with an ex-post correction. We are also going to give no less than what companies would be entitled to, because that would be inappropriate governance. We have European law to abide by. So we need to get as close to what is justified as possible. The methodology used to calculate will be laid down in the AMvB. He'll come to you, too. The final level of the loss compensation depends, inter alia, on the date on which the law enters into force, because then the period of limitation is known. That also matters. For example, you know that it is no longer the whole year 2021. We hope it will start as soon as possible, but we do not know how many months of 2021 and the coming years it will or will not be. And then you know what the loss of income is during that period. It therefore depends on a number of aspects. We don't have that number yet, because we have to make the decision first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u297	I have a question about the ex-ante and ex-post damages. If I am not mistaken, the Hemwegcentrale has only paid ex-ante compensation, and not with that beautiful, artificial ex-post-ex-ante conclusion of the Secretary of State. The European Commission has also said that this is preferable. What's with the post-tax? It's kind of like I'm saying that one day, in the future, the Secretary of State will get a huge discount on her salary. Then I've already said it, and if I'm content, as a state, then she knows it was ex-ante. Of course, such reasoning is not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u298	No, that would be a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u299	Why then did this not happen at the closure of the Hemwegcentrale?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u300	Exactly because of what Mr Otten says: that was a closure. This is a production restriction. Then you have to be able to calculate the disadvantage of it. In order to be able to calculate this properly according to European law, you have to do so at the front, but with a correction mechanism at the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u301	How much, if I may ask, is ex ante paid to the shareholders of Hemwegcentrale? You wouldn't happen to know that, would you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u302	Yes. Can I come back to that in a moment? Before I say a number that doesn't add up. I know, but I'm about to check to see if I got it out of my head. I'll do it in a minute. Mr. Pijlman is back. I would have put his question back. The question was about the hydrogen vision. Mr Pijlman was disappointed at the letter to which I was so happy last week. He asked, "What about the national hydrogen agenda?" The national hydrogen plan shall be made public after the summer. Then we'll come up with that story. Mr Pijlman asked for a moment and that is after the summer. Meanwhile, I am working on the implementation of hydrogen vision, such as the development of the scaling-up instrument. There is another study in progress on the development of a hydrogen transport network, the so-called backbone, which we discussed last week, and the question of whether the existing gas network can be used for this purpose, which we would all very much like to see. That will be public before the summer recess, I really hope very soon. We're working on that. So that's basically the two things. One of them's gonna be here real soon. The other also very soon, but just after the summer. I think there are enough elements in that, hopefully also for Mr Pijlman, to look into that and find some of them. I feel like I've done everything, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u303	At least you've answered all the questions. Thank you, Secretary of State. We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV Group for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. Thanks to the judge who made a political decision, we are now in trouble. There is no hard legal standard for this 25% reduction in CO, because the judge has sought to be associated with the so-called COPs and the climate conferences. The unelected judge has actually just sat down in the seat of the elected representative of the people. The measures that would lead to the CO reduction are farce, apart from the fact that the PVV has the view that we have nothing at all with CO reduction, because CO is in fact a raw material for growing and flowers of plants and trees. But actually, we're just fooling each other by agreeing that burning biomass instead of coal produces less CO. Yes, it is in accounting, but in practice it is not. Actually, the government is fooling us a little, or not "a little," they're just fooling us with this bill. It will be clear that the PVV will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u305	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Then I give the floor to Mr Pijlman on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u306	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the proper response. In this second instance, it is always good to respond to colleagues. A number of groups have said: it is all nonsense, these new power stations are closed, while elsewhere everything goes on and on. It's not that bad. In China there are 2,700 plants. 283 are still under construction, but there are also 699 closed and 271 plans have been put in the refrigerator. The same applies to Germany. Brown cabbage stops, too. 33 power stations are closed by now. Germany wants to accelerate even more. It also stops nuclear energy and invests in hydrogen. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has explained the difference between low-grade and high-quality biomass. Biomass is more than trees, as the motion says. The Sienot motion agreed that CO emissions from biomass would also be measured. That's another step. There are no more subsidies. It would be helpful if the Secretary of State could at some point indicate when we can stop using low-value biomass for, for example, electricity generation. We all want to get rid of it. Colleagues have made good arguments for this. But we have made a lot of commitments. We've been giving subsidies. So that world has changed, too. I asked about the Eemscentrale. That's where they want to cook biomass. The province's the license holder there. I said it doesn't apply to the other four. Does the Empire have any influence on that at any time? Can a province which is totally autonomous and which type of biomass can be used for this purpose? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has answered all our questions about the disadvantage compensation well. I said at first: fair balance. You also have a duty to the companies as a licence holder. I also found that different from the closure of the coal plants, which we discussed in 2019. With regard to the inclusion of the ETS in the price, you have said: yes, I am already doing so. However, the ratio is still this, also because electricity prices have increased. Also thank you that the AMvB comes to us in front of us and that it is paid from the SDE++. As far as I am concerned, the balance between 35% and 25% has also been well answered. Perhaps you could say something about the call for proposal you made. Are there any power stations that can still close and choose to shut down? Thank you for taking a good look at the national hydrogen agenda. I'd like those pieces to come straight to us. It has already been said by the Forum for Democracy and I agree with those words. It would be good if we were to focus on this, possibly in committee. Finally, the two motions, tabled by the Nanninga Group and the SGP, on biomass, or on trees. To be honest, it makes me a little suspicious that those are the groups that want to keep the coal plants open. We will discuss this with the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u307	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u308	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I indicated that it is not for us to explain that we are going to reduce energy from coal and burn more trees. In the coming years, 153 more plants will be added where trees will be burned for energy generation, just because that is what has been agreed. It has been agreed that we need to burn more trees to meet the climate targets. I hear a lot of things here that can't be done. You can't just quit. That's kind of the can't do mentality. It's our experience that we can just do that. We can just say tonight, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow: we stop burning trees in the power stations because that was not so convenient. I even think that the Netherlands could be an international guide country if we just did that. We're maintaining the first-term motion. It's not about ceramics, residual wood, sludge or twigs, it's about cut-off trees entering the incinerator as a whole. That has to stop, and I'm counting on broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u309	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I shall now give the floor to Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Secretary of State. I'd say you're welcome again next week. Last week was good, today was even better. You are well prepared and above all open and honest. You also say: we ourselves asked for 55%. Prime Minister Rutte in the lead. You didn't mention that last part, but that's totally fine. And nobility is mandatory, so we have to do something. That's what I'm saying to all of us here, because we can't make commitments without commitment. We're already behind as the Netherlands. That was clear this morning. The second point is that it is still a pity that people here deny the climate problem. I'm not going to go into that any further, but that's really under a rock. Let us hope that with the coal and the stone age this will also disappear. Look around you. What is a real question is: who solves the problem? Do we, or China? But don't deny the problem itself. I'm in favour of us doing it together. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this is not fun for the companies, but these are not just small SMEs. These are the large energy groups, which have been in all sectors of sport for decades, from nuclear energy to gas, coal and sustainable. They know: you win some and you lose some. They know there are risks. I do agree that we are now speeding up the reduction. The story you kept about the compensation is also good. However, I continue to emphasise... You said you're keen on not giving them any loss compensation. It's gotta be real. As an economist, I didn't think that was an official line at all. You always go ex ante to see the parameters and calculate ex post how it was unpacked. I'm just a civil servant, I'll tell you what. But I get that. It is a demand of Europe, and of course of the company itself, that you set the parameters in advance, but the implementation can be changed over the year. I have two more points, Mr President. The first one is about biomass. You have good biomass and bad biomass. You have short-cycle biomass. In addition, CO is captured today by the sun, which you can chase back into the air tomorrow by burning. Then the cycle is closed. Then CO was taken out of the air and went back into the air, but the sum is zero. But the use of coal is covered by long-cycle biomass. That was COvan a long time ago and that use of coal adds CO to the atmosphere. So we shouldn't use that coal. And no one in the world is gonna cut down trees for burning, which trees are worth more if you make them planks. That's economics, too. But Scandinavia, for example, has a forest area that grows net. So there's a lot of wood over there anyway, because forests grow and then you always have residual wood, because you have to thin out. By the way, they're going to use the wood of that thinning for shelves. And the wood you're left with, you can burn. But that is far too little for the whole world, and even for the Netherlands. So I'm not into woodcake, but I'm not against some kind of zero-sum either, because there isn't. But the most beautiful form of biomass use comes from Leeuwarden. I always say that you eat a lot of cakes, because it will end up in waste water treatment. In Leeuwarden, they have long been making biogas from a residual stream from wastewater treatment. That's what we need to do here, Mr. Chairman. We need to eat more. You're a doctor. You know how it is with the body. So that's just gonna kick your ass. In Leeuwarden, an old people's home is heated with citizens' biogas. So what's against biomass? Look what you're talking about. Finally. I am pleased that the Secretary of State also responded enthusiastically to this market-socialist's option of consulting with Germany. Because if we do it together with Germany and that's cheaper, we'll get more CO reduction at a lower price, then we have to do it. We do not have to transport these coals from Rotterdam to Germany. And in Germany, they stop with that crazy brown coal. And the Germans want to stop that earlier; that's the news I wanted to bring anyway. They want to quit sooner. That will then happen after the elections. So let's hope that the PvdA and GroenLinks hold each other there too, because then things will go rather well. And let the FDP come in, or what are the names of all the parties there? I'm sure that's what the German Hoekstra is looking for, and I'm sure there'll be a coalition that wants to make a deal with us. Then I'll call Frans Timmermans and get that settled in the books. Because if we keep coal plants open, there will be more CO emissions here. Then Urgenda's not doing well. In Germany there is less CO emissions, but there is an advantage. Isn't that something you can negotiate? Isn't that basically some kind of adaptation within the ETS system? That's what the Secretary of State called it. So if Brussels approves that, we're all bacon buyers. But you can't say "bacon" anymore either. So I'm glad the Secretary of State was so excited about it, but I mean this in all seriousness, of course. I hope that we will be reported in the autumn to see if anything has come out of the discussions with Germany on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u311	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Van Ballekom. He is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. The confirmation by the Secretary of State that energy security has been secured is important for my group. If the sun doesn't shine for a while and the wind doesn't blow hard enough, that can be compensated. That is also clear from the answers to the questions put by Mr Schalk. So that reassures my group. The Secretary of State did not address directly the question of how the evolution of the concepts is "clean" and "efficient" at the time and now. This despite the fact that I promised her a dinner break to find out. However, if I understand correctly, this is somewhat offset by the State Secretary's statement that this law makes the loss compensation necessary because there is no normal entrepreneurial risk. So that will then be included in the methodology, I suppose. I think the Secretary of State can confirm that. My next point is that I'm a beginner and inexperienced. I still don't understand how the route is designed. Why should this disadvantage compensation first have a legal basis, then be worked out in an AMvB? I can imagine that the government will first develop a methodology, then seek an opinion from the Council of State and submit it to the European Commission, and then to the Chamber. But I understand now that the trajectory of a general measure of governance is a completely different one, first requesting the opinion of the Chamber and then an opinion of the Council of State. I would like to understand that, because I find that a little strange. I'm sure there's a reason behind it, but I don't know who it is. Then there are Mr van der Linden's fallen trees. He may not be here anymore, but he'll get it. I would be curious, Secretary of State, how many trees should be planted to achieve the CO reduction by planting trees, rather than by adopting this law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u313	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I shall then give the floor to Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u314	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for replying. The second question I asked about the cost of implementing the law, I understand now, because of the disadvantage compensation story. I agree with Mr Van Ballekom's scepticism about the process. I also don't quite understand what that's like. Because I believe that everything we have discussed here so far comes first with an opinion from the Council of State, which seems to me to be a logical order. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I also asked a question about how high the cost of the energy transition in general is. That is, of course, a complex question, which requires a very large calculation, but it is an essential question. Because we are talking here about a bill in the queue now a number of CO-reduction laws. I understand from the PvdA that we can't even ask the core question anymore, because we live in the Stone Age if we don't go along with that adage. I regret that, because I still believe that'measuring is knowing' is still valid. Why are we doing that CO reduction again? Because we think that as humans, we influence the temperature reduction, so that less ice melts, so that the sea level does not rise. If you want to measure the effect of all these CO laws and all that CO reduction, the rise in sea levels is a very good measure. These two millimeters a year make our group ask why we are still doing this. That question continues to intrigue me and it will come back more often. Why are we being so complicated? I wanted to give that to you in the end. Perhaps the overall cost question of this law can still be taken into account. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u315	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers. I heard the political career you have had in the first place, so you must also be at home from all markets. It turned out that they were clear answers, for which I thank you very much. For my group, it has become clear that the legislative amendment is necessary. We had questions about that, you indicated that. It is also clear how the disadvantage compensation is built up. We are pleased that the AMvB is also being placed in front of the Upper House. You said that after 2024 it is certain that there will be no need for an extension. You said that must be clearly communicated. I'll repeat that to you. Indeed, there must be no ambiguity and it must not remain above the market. We cannot table amendments or make proposals here, but I would like to be assured by you that it will be very clear to business: after 2024, this production ceiling will be completed. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the use of low-grade woody biomass used for energy supply. Actually, that's what we're talking about. It emits CO, but it's not counted. There are all kinds of agreements about that. That's right, and it should be. We have to stick to that, otherwise a lot of what we assume falls apart, but it still causes discomfort. I think that this afternoon's debate has shown this, including to my group. Do I understand correctly that the answer from the Secretary of State is that we cannot afford to refrain from doing so at the moment, because then we will no longer be able to meet the 25% CO emission reduction obligation we have from Urgenda? Is that the answer? You have also said that the phasing-out path that exists has been controversially explained. But if that is the answer, would the Secretary of State be able to say something about how she sees the future of that low-grade.I have to look again to see if I say it correctly.. woody biomass?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u317	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u318	Mr. Chairman. Today we see what idiotic conditions the study climate agreements of Wiebes have led to. A bizarre CO accounting has been created in which trees that are fired do not count for CO emissions. Reality has to adapt to the model. It's the reverse world. In order to enhance the joy of celebration, the unelected Ms Minnesma of Urgenda decrees from the sidelines what the government may and may not do. As far as we are concerned, with more common sense, we are going to tackle these problems effectively, preferably in a European or global context, where the world's dirtiest power stations close first, and not the cleanest and the newest, as is happening in the Netherlands. As far as we are concerned, the government will no longer be held hostage by all kinds of NGOs, whether or not through the courts. Then we can amend the legislation if necessary. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State a concrete answer to the question of what the damage is to the Dutch economy if we stopped the tree stook immediately. We have asked for this on a number of occasions, but I do not think that the answer is sufficient. Mr. Chairman. Finally, our group stresses once again that it is very important for the reliability of the Dutch government and for the Dutch location climate that adequate and transparent compensation is being made for the expropriation, which is de facto, of these coal plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u319	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I now give the floor to Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, thanks also to the Secretary of State, of which I shall not mention the name. The first name is "State Secretary," so that makes it easy tonight. I would just like to point out that my concerns are not just about biomass. That was just suggested, at least a little bit. My concerns are also about the position of the Netherlands within Europe, especially with regard to Germany and the lignite fuel, and so on. This is actually a kind of ad hoc legislation, but we are going to get into even more trouble if the Netherlands is going to bring its own legislation into line with European objectives in the future. Then I think we're gonna get into even deeper trouble. In addition, we had a strong discussion about biomass. I'd like to try one more time to clarify my point. That is not so much about the phasing-out path, not about cutting trees, not about the high-quality industry or the high-quality applications in industry, and not about the damage to the economy, however important I consider all these issues to be. I am concerned that a special construction has been devised, namely that we have a reduction for the coal fire. For this we are going to pay disadvantage compensation that has yet to be determined, so we do not yet know what it will cost. When there is a capacity problem, it can be solved with a number of things, for example gas. According to the written reply and what I have heard today, this can also be done by low-value biomass. And why? Because the CO2 emissions do not count. That's an international agreement. Actually, I don't think that's possible. Then we show off with sufficient CO2 reduction, which is not correct. I don't think the government should do that. Hence the next motion. The: Mr Schalk, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Gerkens, Mr Kluit, Mr Dessing, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Koffeman and Mr Crone proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government intends to achieve CO reduction by using only 35% of coal-fired power plants' capacity;]] [[Whereas this measure may create capacity shortages which can be eliminated by, inter alia, heating biomass;]] [[noting that biomass combustion emissions are not included, thus not achieving the actual reduction of CO;]] [[calls on the government to eliminate capacity shortages only by means of CO reduction, and therefore not by woody biomass, in so far as its CO emissions are not included,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u321	It could just be that there's still some names underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u322	Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u323	On the political objective, I believe that we are all in agreement: stop that woody biomass in the coal-fired power stations. But the programme is already being phased out by the cabinet, which is a guarantee of the subsidies that have been granted. What I'm always struggling with is that CO emissions from co-operation in coal plants aren't measured as CO emissions, as you say. I just said it would be measured if you cut down trees on a large scale, in woods. Then it is recorded as a CO emission, so it is measured. That is why I think we should be very precise and ask the Secretary of State in the second term. Otherwise, it's technically wrong. It has to be counted. I don't want trees getting sneaked down. If they're cut down, the CO readings must be in it, or in the combustion, but I don't need double counting either. This is more of a question that led me to hesitate whether or not I would support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u324	I understand that from Mr Crone. I keep trying to make it clear, also in the discussions with the Secretary of State, that if we say to each other 'o, look how much CO reduction we've managed to achieve' and then create CO again somewhere else, to put it that way; that's convenient, because that doesn't count. I don't think that's possible, because that's what you're doing to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u325	I can't stand injustice either, but if the CO emissions are already measured when they cut down a forest in Scandinavia, it's already counted, just not here. That remains the complexity of international agreements. This has literally been going on since Kyoto. At first, everyone wanted it and then they didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u326	I understand that, but the Secretary of State has been trying to convince me all afternoon that I should not bring in all the other European countries, because it is only about the Netherlands. And the first thing you do now is bring Sweden in. I find that a little complicated. I think the idea is crystal clear. You don't want too much added up, and I don't want to. I have tried to make that clear through this motion. Mr President, that was my input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u327	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren, who will speak on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u328	My group is somewhat torn apart by two principles. We strongly support the implementation of the Urgenda case law. It is there, and in a rule of law you have to comply with it. On the other hand, the way in which it is threatening to happen now is sad to me. I do not think the legislation is convincing. The hocus pocus on biomass and CO count or not affects the credibility of this legislation. I am still curious about the economic impact of the use of biomass. I'd like to know what that is. If I had to advise my group to vote in favour of this legislation, I would be reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u329	Thank you. I call Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u330	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The Dutch proverb "by the trees no longer see the forest" has actually gained a new meaning in this whole biomass discussion. We are talking about quotas, low-quality and high-quality, but it is not getting much clearer. It is true, and thank you for that, that this Secretary of State is the first government person to admit that trees are being cut abroad to be set up in the Netherlands. That has always been denied by Mr Wiebes. Minister Schouten also said: well, I don't know anything about that. But I thought I heard this now, and if I had misunderstood it, I'd be happy to hear it in the next period. Then there is the point of striving for greater clarity. Agreements have been made on what we do and do not count on CO emissions in the field of biomass. As a group, we are enthusiastic about the fact that no new subsidies are being granted, but it is not yet sufficiently clear whether these old subsidies will simply be extended. It amounts to EUR 9.5 billion. So not only the CO accounts should be in order, but also the subsidy accounts. For that reason, I would like to table the next motion. The: Mr Koffeman, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Gerkens, Mr Raven, Mr Otten, Mr Dessing, Mr De Vries and Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet announced a preliminary grant summit on woody biomass;]] [[Whereas the burning of woody biomass causes damage to nature and is more polluting than coal;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant any new or extended subsidies on the burning of woody biomass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u331	One question that has not yet been answered by the Secretary of State is that of the concern we have about new subsidies, that of the provision of flexible capital. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that biomass use will be excluded from this new subsidy? In this context, too, I am tabling a motion; I think it would be great to support policy. The: Mr Koffeman, Mr Gerkens and Mr Raven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a limitation on coal burning in power plants to 2024 does not provide sufficient prospects for achieving the 2030 climate targets;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the proposed reduction of coal fuel until 2030 and to prohibit the replacement of coal fuel by burning woody biomass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u332	Twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u333	Twenty minutes. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u334	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate - Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry to keep you waiting. I'll go straight to the questions that have been asked and to the motions. Mr Pijlman mentioned the Eemshaven. I answered that question while he was away. The province is indeed the competent authority. I don't have the authority. I don't have the authority. I know that some of the companies are looking at alternative forms of biomass instead of wood. That seems to me to be a good development, but it all ends up in the province. Mr. Pijlman also asked about the status of the call for proposal. When the call for proposal was opened, all plants were given the opportunity to react and to submit a proposal to completely stop coal by 2021 if they so wished. That's voluntary. We can't force them to file an application. In the context of the call for proposal, one question was submitted by Onyx, on behalf of the Power Plant Rotterdam. The plant that burns waste streams, which we have just talked about, has not submitted a proposal or indicated why it has reached that 35%. At the moment it is being assessed whether the application is satisfactory, whether we could come out with them, what it would look like and whether it is fully in line with the conditions we have laid down. I'll let you know soon enough. As soon as we have that; let me put it this way. Mr. Pijlman also asked: can I get the hydrogen agenda, because we would like to follow it here too? I will certainly support that. Mr Crone: Thank you for all the support we have for the talks we have with Germany. As soon as there's more to report, I'll have it sent here. Mr Van Ballekom: I apologize not only for saying your name wrong, but also for not answering the question properly. I had it in front of me, but with so much paper, that went wrong for a while. It was about Clean and Economical. That has just been treated a little bit, but I want to come back to it. It is therefore not laid down in the permit itself. Mr Van Ballekom asked: has it been evaluated, is there any development in it and how does it work? Clean and Economic is the title of the work programme presented in 2007. It describes the ways in which the Netherlands will have one of Europe's most efficient and clean energy facilities by 2020. In that program it was actually explained that only clean fossil was welcome in the Netherlands. The question is, of course, how are you going to fill that out? This meant that new coal plants could only be built if they were accompanied by CCS, capture and storage of CO. The expectation of capture and storage of CO is included in the actual permits at the time, requiring the new plants to be prepared as far as possible for the realisation of that CO capture and storage in the future. So they were supposed to be "capture ready." So the definition of clean and economical has not changed. The implementation has not changed, but the intention of the plants to actually apply CCS has not been realised. That has been the development and I hope that I have been able to clarify it a little. Mr Van Ballekom and Mr Dessing also had questions about the route of the AMvB and the order with the Council of State. How does that work? The bill and the AMvB with the calculation rules for the level of disadvantage compensation will enter into force at the same time. In order to calculate the level of disadvantage compensation for a coal power plant, we need, in addition to the calculation rules, the company data of these companies, in order to be as close as possible to the actual disadvantage. We have just discussed this in detail. The point is, you're not gonna overcompensate. It is data on production and data on production costs. The obligation to give company data to my ministry is set out in the bill. You have to establish that first, so that you can then create a calculation method and calculate with that data. We can then refer that back to you. In this way, these plants will be forced, simply speaking, to submit the data. Only when those data are available will you know how high the disadvantage compensation is. Then it is possible to obtain authorisation from the European Commission. The AMvB is familiar with this suspension procedure, as has been said in both chambers. The veil shall take place prior to the referral to the Council of State. It's kind of a crazy order, but it's how the bill says it is, and it's also the standard method with which we do that. I've just checked it out, and I've learned it again. It is standard that this is the order by which both chambers can control the exercise of delegation power by the government, as is also provided for in designation 2.36 of the Regulatory Instructions. So this is the standard order on which you do that kind of business. It thus gives the two Chambers the opportunity to express their views on the draft of the AMvB and thus to determine its content if they wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u336	I wonder what the role of the Council of State is still. That's a different role from the one the Secretary of State sent prior to the Chamber, isn't it? Then the Chamber can take the opinion of the Council of State. I assume that's another part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u337	In this case, that is the standard method. It is so built-in that the Chambers first speak on it. Of course, you already have the bill and the opinion of the Council of State on the bill. The House of Representatives has said that we want an AMvB first and it must be put before the Chambers. This is the order and the advice will be given afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u338	I understand the process, but what can the Council of State say? Does the Council say anything about what the Chamber still thinks? What is different from the content of the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u339	I don't think it's very different, but I don't think it's gonna help if I say what I think. It's about what's really going on. I will come to a few other things later, where I would like to offer to come back to it by Friday at the latest. I propose that we add this. If that is a good idea, I will write very carefully why this standard method looks like this and what the role of the Council of State is at that moment, so that we have on paper how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u340	Thank you for this commitment. Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u341	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the explanation. Now I understand that you need the law to get company data, and that's why you can't work out that method until that law comes in. That is an important point and that makes it easier for our group to decide on it. Let me ask you a question about the Council of State. What if we get that AMvB? We have discussed it and we say: this is a wonderful method and we agree with it. Then it goes to the Council of State and the Council of State says "well, this really is a lousy regulation. We would advise against it at all times." What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u342	If Mr Van Ballekom agrees with that, we will also include this in the letter on the precise steps and on the role of the Council of State. It's a standard method, like I said, and I'm sure it's been followed once. If it's all right with you, it'll come back in that letter. I think it's important that we all know exactly what we're up to. So that's what I'm adding. Mr Van Ballekom had another question. How many trees should be planted if you wanted an alternative to the bill? There are top officials I can go to and one has been busy mathing. In order to achieve the same CO reduction, which is 375 megatons for next year, 156 million trees will have to be planted in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u343	Don't yell through the hall, because people at home can't follow you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u344	156 million trees! That's 300,000 acres of forest. I believe that these are also 300 000 football fields; at least it is a lot. Mr Dessing also had a question. In the first term, I had understood it as: what does this cost now? What is the cost of the proposal, the disadvantage compensation? That is what we are going to find out when we have dealt with and adopted the bill, we have received and are going to calculate the information from the companies. Then he said: I also want to know what climate policy costs in the broad sense. That's a slightly more complicated story. The Climate Agreement has been passed on by the PBL and the CPB. I cannot mention one number, because it depends on the investment and on all the costs and benefits that come with it. I'd like to advise you to send over that bill, which contains the whole picture. I'd be happy to send that to you. I can imagine that Mr Dessing would say: ridiculous, far too much! That's a bit of what I remember from the discussions in the Lower House with members of Forum. But at least we'll talk about the same thing. There's not one number to name. I've been looking for it for a while, but it always goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u345	Mr Otten is not quite satisfied, it seems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u346	I had another question about those trees. There are 307 million trees in the Netherlands. You say 156 million trees must be planted. Does that a contrario mean that 156 million trees a year are being set up in these plants? No? How much? Following on from Mr Van Ballekom, my question is: how many million trees are going into these plants every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u347	I shall now turn to the questions about the role of biomass in the coal-fired power stations. I think we're gonna charge a little too much free now if we're gonna do it this way, because it's not exactly like that. I like to finish my stack and maybe there's a part of the answer in there. Mrs Huizinga of the Christian Union asked whether we can say with certainty that after 2024, so from 2025, we no longer need the restriction. I will repeat it again, because then it will also be in the legal history. In order not to intervene beyond what is necessary in the coal sector, the restriction to 2024 has been chosen. Until then, it will apply. There is a motion from the Lower House members Boucke van D66 and Erkens van de VVD. They request that the effects be investigated if this production restriction continues to apply after 2024. My predecessor indicated in the House of Representatives that he wanted to investigate it, but he also said directly that, as I do here, the expectation is that it would not be wise to allow that limitation to continue. There's no need for that either. It is expected that this will be the conclusion of the investigation. I'm gonna do the research. It's already been promised. At the request of Mrs Huizinga, I will say once again that for good reason we choose to allow the restriction to run until 2024, including the security for companies. It is therefore also up to us to ensure that all the other measures in the Climate Agreement and the like will have that effect. There was also a question from the Christian Union as to whether it is true that we cannot afford to stop using biomass in a low-value manner. In the discussion, all applications were a bit mixed up, but I wrote this question down in the low-grade use of woody biomass. Is it true that we can't afford that for the climate goals? I am not talking, by definition, about the Urgenda judgment, but about the climate targets. That's right. We can't afford to stop acutely. We all want a sensible phasing-out path, and that's what's going to happen. It has now been declared controversial, but I fully assume that a new cabinet will fill that in wisely. If you stopped acutely, you'd make it to the targets much later or not. That's what the PBL calculated. This is particularly true in the built environment and greenhouse horticulture. TNO's quickscan, which also looked at what happens when you stop acutely, shows that it will cost hundreds of millions of euros a year if you quit in an unwise way. I have just promised to send both reports from PBL and TNO to your Chamber. There's all this data in there, too. Mr Otten asked what I could do for the votes so that he knew where he was going. This was mainly about biomass in coal plants. In the letter of Friday, I can comment on the current decisions on the use of biomass in coal-fired power stations. I can deal with the value of these decisions, the duration and the expected expenditure. That's what's in there right now. So this is as specific as possible with regard to the legislative proposal before us. I can also comment on the importance of the current coal power stations for the security of supply in the Dutch economy by Friday. Hopefully, that's enough information to deal with the bill. In addition, there were other questions. They were a bit broader about biomass, in any application. What is the value applied? What's the deal with that and how does that work? That comes in the letter with the analysis I'd like to make, but that's really a complex story. You have to do that properly, because it is also about companies, as well as about our goals and costs. I'd like to promise that letter, but it won't be here until Friday. It will follow as soon as possible. But when it comes to the coal power stations in relation to the bill, it is those two points that I will return to on Friday. Maybe another addition. That's all gonna be in the letter that's gonna come later. Mr Otten and others asked what would happen if you banned all biomass, so just no more biomass in the Netherlands. I will explain this in more detail in the other letter on biomass. But then you cannot withdraw all the billions already spent on all those decisions until 2028. So they're gonna keep going. So the companies actually don't have to do anything for those billions anymore. That's something you realize with that. For example, the Amercentrale, a coal power station, will have no impact on the bill as it stands, because it has much more biomass, so it does not touch those 35% coals. This plant provides heat to over 46,000 households and 375 companies. If you stop there because biomass is no longer allowed to be used in the Netherlands, they are almost 50,000 households and those almost 400 companies are literally in the cold. For that reason, too, I have always said in the first term that you have to pull things apart and name them as they are. Then you get a complicated story, but that's because it has such a big impact. This is how it is decorated at the moment and so it is also decorated worldwide. So it is fine to say: we want different agreements. But that has an impact on all kinds of levels. Again, the Friday letter deals with the current decisions, the value of the decisions, the duration of the expected expenditure and the importance of the current coal power stations for the security of supply in the Dutch economy. Mr. Koffeman spoke about the trees for the biomass fire and asked what exactly happened. There too, we must take things apart again. I know that there was a discussion in the House of Representatives about whether primeval forests would be harvested in Estonia for the biomass application in the Netherlands. It was said by MPs that this was done. As a result of this debate, my ministry has once again made extensive contact with the authorities in Estonia. That is not the case. There are no primordial forests in Estonia. There are production forests where trees are harvested, but for applications such as furniture or building materials. It may be that my predecessors have always said that we receive materials from them for the biomass fuel. In sustainably managed forests, trees are harvested for different purposes. Some trees are not considered suitable for high-quality applications by the forest manager. Trees are also cut down to give more space to other trees, for example, for economic purposes or because of fire safety or disease. The subject of biomass is therefore very easy to understand, but if you zoom in, it is not. I think I've gotten to the motions. Should I get started on that? Or is it better to wait a little longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u348	I think there's one more question that hasn't been answered. That was the question of whether the Secretary of State can guarantee that the use of biomass will be excluded when granting a grant for flexible capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u349	If I have understood the question correctly, then it can also be about, for example, innovation subsidies that can be used for this purpose. That is possible, but it is often about small-scale innovations. It must be really, very specific, about innovation. It's not about the order we're actually talking about all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u350	In order to be very specific: can the Secretary of State take that into account in Friday's letter, so that we can really get a clear picture of what is and what is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u351	Sure, yeah. I will add this answer to the letter. I have here the first motion, Mr Koffeman's motion and a lot of colleagues. It says F above: Does that matter and does that help? Yeah, I see that helps. It calls on the government not to grant any new or extended subsidies on the burning of woody biomass. The use of woody biomass is still temporarily needed. I see there's a lot of support for this motion. I can imagine that this is a good idea, but this is also a little more complex in terms of its consequences. I advise against the motion anyway because we still need the woody biomass temporarily. On the basis of a phasing-out path, decision-making on further grants is possible. This place would be too fast. That is also why we agreed in the House of Representatives to wait until there is a new cabinet, so that a wide phasing-out path can also be introduced neatly. I therefore advise against the motion, but I would prefer it to be held until it is up to date and at least we can come up with a phasing-out path so that we can organise it wisely. That would be my advice: arrest or discourage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u352	On the motion in part No. F of Koffeman cum suis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u353	Yes. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u354	Also from Mr Koffeman cum suis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u355	Yes. The motion calls for a ban on the replacement of coal fuel by burning woody biomass. I'm afraid there may be some things going on here, too. The bill as it stands now requires something else. It is not necessary to prohibit the replacement of coal fuel by burning woody biomass in the context of the Urgenda ruling. We're trying to meet that here. That's what the bill's for. My advice would be not to fill that out in any other way now. I advise against this motion. As I said earlier, the use of woody biomass is still temporarily needed. We can find a lot of that, but that's still what it is. On the basis of a reasonable phasing-out path, we can then continue with it. I'm afraid I'm mixing things up, so I'm gonna see if I can read the right motions. That looks like it; it's still going well. I now come to the motion by Mr Schalk and a lot of colleagues: the motion in part No. E. It's a bit of a mix-up, I see, because the motion in part No. I just skipped D. I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u356	The E of Evert.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u357	I found this motion complicated. I also found it complicated to now assess the consequences. I have "dissuade" here, but actually I would like to be able to explain it better. If I read it correctly, Mr Schalk and my colleagues say that, at the moment when you need something extra for security of supply, you should not use biomass anyway. That's how I read her, I think. He looks a little disappointed, but I've really tried my best to read the motion properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u358	Yeah, I can see that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u359	But if that's it, then that might have a lot of impact on how we can set up security of supply. But I'm just gonna keep my mouth shut to see if I've read properly what the motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u360	I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u361	It's never happened to me that I made a complicated motion, but this time it worked. What I said was that the moment you want to secure the security of supply, whatever you're heating up, it gives CO. You just need to be clear about that. Then perhaps there will come a moment when there is a deficit with that 65% reduction in coal-fired power stations, that is 35% max. The Secretary of State has said: if that causes security of supply problems, then we can increase the coal fuel, but then you have CO2 emissions. It counted; it had to be. You could've gone for gas, too. But she said you could do biomass too, and that biomass wouldn't count. And that's just what I think you shouldn't do when you're a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u362	I want to understand. You will then have the debate with Mr Crone. Biomass is counted in the hood. And the motion says: you have to count it double. He may count elsewhere, but he also has to count in the Netherlands. We would then be quite unique in that. The rest of us don't. We have a disadvantage in that, because we have agreed otherwise at international level. That may be a wish of your Chamber, but then it is a fact that you count it double at that time. You can also say: the moment you are short, you cannot use your biomass. But then I want to have a good map of what that means for security of supply. It seems to me that it is too soon to rule this out in a motion, because security of supply is, of course, vital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u363	I have just told Mr Crone that the Secretary of State is stabbing me in the Netherlands all the time. He wanted me in Sweden, and now the Secretary of State wants me in Sweden. And we can't talk about Germany and lignite. So I think that's getting a little complicated. But I said at the time: biomass cannot be poisoned because it does not count. You can't say, "It produces CO, that's just the way it is, but we do it with biomass, and that doesn't count." I've read it everywhere, including in the pieces that have been delivered to us so far. I just don't think that's a proper way of doing things. Everything counts. And if we're short, yes, we won't reach the climate targets. That is very annoying and perhaps we should come up with a new measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u364	It's true that things are mixed up. That is also the case, because we are now engaging in a very fundamental and justified discussion of the legislative proposal. The bill is aimed at achieving the goals we have to achieve because of the Urgendavonnis. Urgenda and the judge's ruling ask us to look into that in the Netherlands. That's what we do. The debate on the system of biomass is also going through this, and that discussion is international. That's two data I just have to work with. I have already said that this discussion is also taking place worldwide and in Europe. I understand the inconvenience very well. I understand the inconvenience. It was not quite what I got out of Mr Samsom's words, but he might also acknowledge that there is an inconvenience here. It may be possible that there will be appropriate rules from Europe. In the media, I also heard Mr Samsom say that we need biomass for the time being in the transition and that we have agreed on a certain way. So I don't know if there's going to be an adjustment. But my advice would be: don't move too fast in a motion options for security of supply. Or at least let me work it out well. I'll see if I can have that for Friday too. What it would mean if you double your biomass, because that's what it comes down to. But my advice would be not to do this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u365	There is no question of me questioning the climate targets at the moment. That's all crystal clear, isn't it? I am simply concerned that we need to make a clear, fair assessment. The reasoning of "then it becomes double counting, because somewhere we chop down a tree and then someone, I don't know where, is punished and then we don't have to do it anymore"... You won't get it explained to me and I'm afraid I won't get it explained to my constituents either. It's almost... I think people do feel: here we are messing around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u366	I wouldn't say we're messing around. It's a system that we've been seeing for a long time. It may well be that on the basis of support, new insights or political insights, all of which may be equally relevant, you feel that this system is no longer adequate. My only argument is that we should not decide that here in the Netherlands, for example, with one legislative proposal for ourselves, because it only affects us in the end. That's what I'm talking about here. This is how it's been for a long time. I see that the support base, for example for low-grade use of woody biomass, has decreased. That's why we're gonna do other things with that. I think there's gonna be a phasing-out path when there's a new cabinet. I also said there that it simply has an impact on how we then achieve the goals, how we calculate or not internationally, what the costs will be for us. Take that one step at a time, considered. That's actually my argument here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u367	It's always complicated how to interpret a motion. The first petitioner is leading. That's why I want to get between him and the Secretary of State... It is not surprising to count an eco-label from abroad. The palm oil discussion is now topical, but it also applies to fair trade coffee, for example. It is not surprising to say that good certified wood from Scandinavia that comes here counts for the CO reduction and therefore not for them. Well, it makes sense for you to count that here. I don't see what a border problem there is. That's how I see it. If you don't, you're gonna double-punish. It makes sense to say that that is well-certified wood, because that is what we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u368	Perhaps you, as the authors of the motion, could discuss this with one another in the margins of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u369	No, I'd like to know about the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u370	Ah, you have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u371	On the front page of Het Financiën Dagblad it said that Diederiek Samsom said that the Commission is already coming up on 14 July, I think, with new criteria that are much sharper than we have had. Then it is quite crazy to say so on the square millimetre: this is allowed and this is not allowed. I admit I'm on the square millimeter, too, but we're gonna make a tough decision when we do this. That is why I am looking for an opening to either wait for Europe or for the new cabinet or both at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u372	And the question is, what does the Secretary of State think of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u373	Well, either she knows when the new certification will come from Brussels. Then we know whether that Scandinavian wood is good or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u374	No, I don't. On 14 July we expect twelve or thirteen legislative proposals. They literally come on the table as a proposal and deal with how we can get to 55%. That is where the whole dialogue begins, including with the Member States, about what is ahead. Then it will be about whether you're going to expand ETS, what you're going to do with renewable energy targets, you name it. I do not know whether there will be a concrete proposal for biomass. I do not know what these other proposals will contain either. It is also a little complicated for me if there is a relevant discussion, which I can follow from both sides, between different authors of the same motion. The message and the wish aren't that crazy at all. My advice would be: if there is still so much uncertainty about where you want to land with such a motion, then hold her. Then we can at least see if anything comes from Europe. If so, how are we going to relate to that? How do we feel about that? That's the whole route we're going into from mid-July. But now I'm afraid we're gonna do something that's gonna cause us a lot more trouble than we intended. That is why I wanted to clarify it. I didn't quite do it. I'm still inclined to dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u375	So you're dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u376	Yeah, but I'd really recommend stopping her. If it is adopted, I really do not know what the interpretation should be and how we should allow it to land. Is it really going to be a risk to security of supply? Maybe we'll count twice and the Chamber will say, "We don't mind what you're doing." That's a lot of different interpretations. I really want to give you that explicitly. I think it's wise to keep an eye on that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u377	I believe I have heard you say that you may return to it on Friday in your letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u378	Yes. But I must say that the discussion did not make it much easier for me to understand exactly what I have to come back to. I'd like to give it a shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u379	Then we still have motion D.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u380	Yes. That's actually the first motion filed. I apologize for coming to the end with that. It belongs to Mr Van der Linden and several colleagues. The motion calls on the Secretary of State to do everything possible to stop industrial energy production on the basis of cut-off trees as soon as possible. Actually, that's what I said at the beginning. If you do it this way... I mentioned a number of examples, such as glass and ceramics, but also part of Tata. It just has a huge impact. I don't think that's gonna bring the climate targets any closer. That's an understatement, because they'll be farther away from us. But in this case, it is certainly also about the cost of the energy transition and the jobs that are at stake. So I'd say don't do this like this. I advise against this motion because I believe that the costs for people at home, SMEs and other companies are going to be significantly higher. I do not know if the proposers think it is very relevant, but I repeat: the climate targets are not getting any closer either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u381	Thank you, Secretary of State. I will close the debate and come to the finalisation of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-eerstekamer-9.u382	Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the members, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate - Climate and Energy and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll close the meeting and wish you all at home.
