ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on getting IS women and their children back to the Netherlands. A warm welcome to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice and Security. Thank you for joining us. It's gonna be a long day. We have 15 speakers on the side of the Chamber, so we have almost a full house. Everyone has four minutes' speaking time. And we have two maiden speeches in this debate, namely by Mrs Van der Werf van D66 and by Mrs Koekkoek van Volt. I'm gonna suspend for congratulations, but I'm gonna do that at the end of the first term of the Chamber. This is just for the groups, the flowers and the group leaders who are perhaps all going to be ready in the wings. I therefore congratulate you on the first term of office. Okay, so the railroad book is clear. We are going to listen to the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mr Markuszower of the Party for Freedom Group. Again, he has four minutes of speaking time, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is unbelievable that our government has brought back ISIS terrorists to the Netherlands and has therefore opened the door to many dozens of additional ISIS terrorists who will now return. This ministers duo Kaag and Grapperhaus abused his office by the danger and absolute evil that ISIS is voluntarily importing. ISIS is responsible for the most cruel forms of violence, mass murder and destruction we know. ISIS terrorists have countless decapitations on their consciences. ISIS terrorists have let Jezidi mothers eat their own children. ISIS terrorists have raped girls less than ten years old in front of their families. ISIS terrorists have committed the most devastating attacks in cities around the corner, such as the bombings at the Brussels airport, the massacre at a pop concert in Manchester and the suicide attacks at Bataclan in Paris, among others. ISIS terrorists have committed beastly atrocities. These unhumans, these ISIS terrorists, are brought back to the Netherlands by this duo, the ministers Graperhaus and Kaag. Not because they have to, but because they want to. Apparently, they love terrorists more than Dutch. Because you don't have to be a professor to understand that if you bring ISIS terrorists to the Netherlands, you will import death, destruction and destruction to the Netherlands. Last week, for the umpteenth time, we saw what these Muslim terrorists are doing in Europe: they are stabbing eight women in the street in Germany badly wounded and dead or they are raping and killing a 13-year-old girl in Vienna. You must hate the Netherlands and the Dutch very much when you bring such animals back to the Netherlands voluntarily and without obligation. One, Mrs Kaag, scatters whenever she can with Dutch tax money for Palestinian terrorists, who then, strengthened by that Kaag money, blow up a young Jewish girl. The other, Mr Grapperhaus, was already aware before he took office that he would prefer to bring back the most murderous ISIS terrorists to the Netherlands and give them mercy. Mr. Chairman. The excuse we hear from them today that they are doing all this to prevent impunity is the biggest lie of all. The average prison sentence for ISIS relapsers is net less than 24 months. After that short time they just walk freely in the Netherlands, like ticking time bombs. What kind of impunity? Trying them here in the Netherlands is not a punishment, it's a gift. Moreover, it sets a huge precedent. Experts warn that due to this insane recall action, other ISIS fighters are now also likely to have a similar recovery path. Mr. Chairman. These ISIS terrorists left with so much hatred a few years ago. They have gone away with only one goal: to establish an Islamic state and to destroy everything and anyone that they consider to be inappropriate. They do not come back now with regret, but with even more hatred, but also with much more war experience. They now have the knowledge and means to no longer sow death and destruction here. Mr. Chairman. That is why this now reclaimed ISIS terrorist must be returned to our country immediately. The Netherlands must never bring terrorists back from anywhere. The Netherlands must never grant any terrorist access to our territory again. The Netherlands must finally put the safety of Dutch people first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u4	Of course, we fully share the deep, deep disgust and indignation at all the death and destruction that has been committed there. I do have an informative question for Mr Markuszower. I understand his point of view, but I'm in a different place myself. Has he thought about what happens when you say we leave everyone there? Once again, that is a respectable position, because it is all horrible and terrible. But is that ultimately in the interests of national security, I ask the PVV. Because we do know that we cannot ask the Kurds to leave the people locked up there without any kind of trial. And we also know that escapes are taking place and what could be the result of them? My informative question is: how does Mr Markuszower see it? Is that perhaps a greater risk to national security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u5	No, that's not a bigger risk anyway. It's certain that if we bring them here, they'll be here in no time, on average 24 months... But for women, that's much less. Experts say that they are often much more harnessed in their ideology and in their fighting skills than some men. We're sure that if they come back here, they'll be out on the street in no time and thus pose a threat to national security in no time. That's for sure. If we don't get them back and they stay there, at least it's not certain but more insecure that they'll come back. And if they come back on their own, for example because they're fleeing, then we have to stop them at the border. I have great confidence that if Mr Grapperhaus, Mrs Kaag and all the other ministers were to concentrate on keeping our borders safe and if they were to focus our resources, knowledge and skills on protecting our borders, we would be able to keep that kind of terrorists out of the door. So no, I think it's much safer to leave them there in the long run, too. They'll have to figure it out there. We in the Netherlands should not spend our money, our time and our attention on getting them back. We must pay all this attention to guarding our borders so that no dangerous elements can cross our borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u6	I respect that position, but I would point out that the round table meeting with all those experts, with people from the AIVD, the NCTV and with scientists, had a completely different tone, namely that it might be a much greater risk to national security if you take this view. It's easy to say here that you have confidence that you can stop everyone at the border, but I'm afraid the practice will be more uncomfortable. If the experts all say that it may be a greater risk to national security if people return unregulated and without any process or supervision, for example because they have escaped, what will happen? That is all I want to give Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u7	I also heard the AIVD say in that briefing that if they're all coming back or being brought back, the AIVD doesn't have the means to follow them. That means that the AIVD already admits that they can't control the risk to safety because also the AIVD admits that there's a risk when you get them back............................................................................................................................................................................. If the experts say that it is also dangerous if they are there because we do not know when they will come back, then I say again: let us spend all the time, attention and resources to ensure that they stay there anyway. Perhaps we should be more expert than the present people sitting there giving them other clues. That should certainly work, because I have great confidence in the services in the end, as long as they are properly controlled. The direction now is that there is a policy to bring terrorists back. I want a policy to keep terrorists away, so that all Dutch people here can live their lives in relative peace and security, and not constantly fear that they will be blown up, like the people who went to a pop concert in Manchester.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u8	I agree with Mr Van Nispen: we all feel that fear here. I was also in that technical briefing, where we had a conversation with all kinds of experts. The risk you're appointing remains. The AIVD has already indicated this, even if we leave people where they are and keep them out of Dutch jurisdiction. The risk of someone radicalising that threat remains. So what do we do with that? And how do we deal with the risk that this gives to other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u9	I'm sorry, can you repeat it one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u10	If I have understood correctly from Mr Markuszower, the risk here in the Netherlands will be spared if we ensure that people outside the Dutch jurisdiction remain outside the Netherlands. In the same technical briefing, the AIVD indicated that it "does not have the means to follow people continuously." However, the AIVD does not have that possibility at the time it does not reside within the Dutch borders, i.e. in other countries. However, the risk that someone will radicalise, that there may be another attack, remains. Whether we leave people there or let people come here: the risk of an attack in the Netherlands remains present. So the question is how we deal with that risk when you say that we leave the people there and we release them uncontrolled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u11	I asked you to repeat it again, because there are many elements in your question. One element is: they can radicalize. My theorem, fact actually, is: they are already radicalized. They were radicalized when they went there, and they were in those years when they were in that terrible ISIS area and helped and participated in those most horrible atrocities, of which the Dutch language is unable to describe how horrific the acts they committed were, much more radicalised. So we're retrieving extremely radicalized people. That's a fact. I don't see that danger from the radicalisation process, except they already are. So the danger isn't that they're gonna be, because they already are. The AIVD and our ministers must begin to realize that, I think, the AIVD does, but the ministers are not yet aware that now that Islam has become so great, Islam has become so great. So we live in a world in which the Netherlands has to deal with a permanent threat of Muslim terrorism. That is the reality. Ministers must therefore give instructions to the services to mitigate this threat in order to keep it as low as possible. Maybe that means we have to work differently. This means that we may also have to be more active outside our own borders; that might be possible. But the stupidest and perhaps most criminal thing you can do as a cabinet is voluntarily retrieve radicalized terrorists. Because then you're sure you have very dangerous people within your borders, which the AIVD now says: we can't keep an eye on all of them, because we don't have the capacity for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u12	To get a little smaller, because you do take my question a little bigger; I'm actually trying to make it very small. The risk of something horrible, let us keep it very simple. Your position is that we should not bring people back, because the AIVD cannot control them here. Okay, I got that, too. But in the same sense, the AIVD said: we can't control them when they're not in the Netherlands. So that risk remains. How do we deal with the safety of Dutch people in the safest way? By including them in the criminal trial here. That's also indicated. I understand that we are pursuing the same interest, and we want to guarantee the safety of Dutch people, including in other countries, so how do we do that if we cannot control them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u13	So we must at least secure our borders so that we do not bring in dangerous elements. So now they're being taken back voluntarily. We must also ensure that they do not return involuntarily, so do not return of their own accord. For that, we need to secure our borders. Anyone who's dangerous, we're gonna have to throw them out again. So that's what you have to do. Of course, I do not have to reveal all the secret possibilities of the AIVD and the other services here, but there are, of course, a lot of countries in the world that have turned the button and understand how to keep out terror and terror that comes from outside. There is no such thing as absolute safety. Everyone understands that. On the other hand, even a small child, but apparently these two ministers do not understand, that if you voluntarily bring the largest terrorists in the Netherlands who are not in the Netherlands back to the Netherlands, they will be free in a few months' time. For those punishments by Mr Grapperhaus are punctual punishments; those ISIS terrorists are stuck in the Netherlands for an average of two years. Then you're sure you have the most dangerous elements voluntarily walking around within your borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Kuzu. No, Mrs. Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr Markuszower just said: "The stupidest thing you can do is bring these terrorists to the Netherlands." I think the dumbest thing you can do is lose track of these terrorists. That is what the PVV is actually advocating here. Why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u16	No, we just lose track of them the moment you bring them to the Netherlands. Because then what happens? I'll take you with me. You might be a little new, too. Today is your maiden speech. Maybe I'll be able to interrupt you later if you me... I don't know what the rules of the game are, but I'll take you into account how that goes in the Netherlands, whether you're a criminal or a terrorist; we don't make a distinction in Mr.Grapperhaus's Disneyland, in that so-called "justitieland" with all those D66 judges. What's going on? There's gonna be a criminal, a rapist, a killer; they're all TBs patients nowadays, because everyone who does is crazy and doesn't really have to get punished. They're coming to the Netherlands; they're here and they're coming to court. The judge, one of those D66 judges, says, "Fie, fag, it's a terrible thing you've done there." We can't prove everything, because it's all very far away, but you have to spend 24 months in jail on average. What happens after that cell? What happens after that cell in the Netherlands, whether you're a rapist or a terrorist in the Netherlands? Very little happens after that cell time. You might get an anklet for a few months. You may also be able to cut it again; that happens regularly. There are all new crimes happening again. So, you know, that's just so basically that, after you've spent 24 months in a Dutch cell or even gotten a TB's, you're walking around in the Netherlands at some point. And that moment is coming very soon. The rapists then continue to rape in the Netherlands. The murderers will continue to kill in the Netherlands. And the terrorists will continue to commit terrorist acts. And they're all out of sight; that was the question. They're all out of sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u17	The only way we're sure we're gonna let people get out of sight is if we leave them in the camps now and if they escape there. Fifteen of them have already escaped. The Kurds warn that there will be many more. Then we don't know where they are anymore. We heard in that hearing, in which you were present, that we have the opportunity to follow people here in the Netherlands. I fully agree with you that these possibilities need to be extended, but what are you saying? Would you rather not see them at all? Or do you want eyes on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u18	They shouldn't be here. At the moment they are here, they will attack and the Dutch, innocent Dutch, will be murdered. So they can't be here. That's insanity... I don't even understand that we're debating that at all. They are terrorists who have committed the most terrible atrocities. We're gonna get them back voluntarily, we're barely gonna put them in jail and we're barely gonna keep an eye on them and probably not gonna keep an eye on them after that. Like I said, you have to keep them very far away from us, as far away as possible. Syria and Iraq are not even far enough. They have to stay in that dark pit where they are now and never come back. When they make a move to come back, you have to push them back so hard that they can't even think about coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u19	The disgust of ISIS is not just something of Mr Markuszower. I think the whole Chamber shares that disgust, but it must be very easy to be a PVVer: the solution is to keep them all as far away from the Netherlands as possible, because then we solve the problem. All the experts in the technical briefing said, and we also read that in the letters sent by the cabinet that as time passes, those potential attackers can flee from the camps where they are now. This also means that there is a higher risk of an attack in Europe if you do not monitor them closely. So I wonder: is the cabinet stupid or is Mr Markuszower stupid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u20	The cabinet is not stupid; the cabinet is dangerous, dangerous. Why is there a flight risk? Among other things, because this dangerous cabinet, which is just willingly risking the lives of innocent Dutch people, after an offer from Iraq to try them there, has said: we are not going to try them there, because they might get the death penalty and of course we are not going to cooperate. That's what the cabinet says: "That's dangerous." That was a solution, but the cabinet doesn't want it. There are other solutions as well, because there were other solutions in that technical briefing... Moreover, I think that as Members of Parliament, we should be informed, but ultimately we should form our own opinions. We cannot always let our opinions depend on experts. We should also be competent ourselves when we have a debate. One. They're in those camps, for example because we refused to hand them over to Iraq, that she wanted to trial. Two. Other solutions have also been suggested. But I don't have to suggest solutions at all, because I'm not a member of the cabinet. As a Member of Parliament, I must simply say: not here; please do not let them wander around our country, because that is dangerous. The way the cabinet's gonna take care of it is good for the cabinet. There are a lot of possibilities. They can be tried there. If they are very dangerous, there are other solutions. The boundaries can be guarded. It's all possible. I'm not a minister. The problem is that we have a minister who's dying to get them back. Minister Grapperhaus wrote in 2015 that he would very much like to give them mercy and that he would very much like to have a debate with them. And we all know from Mrs Kaag that she loves to have terrorists around her. We know that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u21	Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u22	She sponsors terrorists in Palestine or in the Palestinian territories who then kill a Jewish girl. We all know that, don't we? We are sitting here with a minister who would like to have a debate with these terrorists and give them mercy, and with another minister who would do nothing more than give as much Dutch money as possible to terrorists. It's not a stupid cabinet. It's a dangerous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u23	Chairman? I would like to finish this first, Mrs Ellemeet, because I think we are on the same page. I find the words Mr Markuszower used about Mrs Kaag disgusting. She's not my party, but I think it's really disgusting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u24	She's almost yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u25	It's disgusting. She's not nearly my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u26	Almost your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u27	We disagree on a lot of things. Mr. Chairman. I wonder if you're going to intervene with Mr Markuszower, because he's talking through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u28	You have the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope you will address Mr Markuszower when he gets through it. He just said this cabinet isn't stupid. He did say that two minutes ago. He's turned it into "dangerous" now. He accuses a Dutch minister of being dangerous, of bringing terrorists here and embracing them. That's disgusting and abject. If you're going to look at the PVV's point of view, it's very easy. That's the point. The solution is so simple. You also bear a responsibility, Mr. Markuszower. Not only the cabinet has responsibility, but you too. You are responsible for Dutch citizens, whether they are Muslim, Christian, Jew or atheist. None of that matters. They're Dutch citizens. There are also children and we have a responsibility for that. This is not a matter of a year or two. This has been going on for years. Since 2015, the Chamber and the Cabinet have been working on this. I am not saying it to defend the ministers, because I also have a number of justified criticisms. But making the cabinet dangerous and making a minister for someone who embraces and hugs terrorists is really disgusting, abject and the Chamber unworthy, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u30	But I didn't say anything that wasn't true. One minister, Grapperhaus, would like to give their mercy and debate with them. The other minister continued to sponsor terrorists in Palestinian territories at the first opportunity that this could happen again. I can't make it any prettier. It's the truth. We have a responsibility to the Netherlands. It has taken this House of Representatives. A member has been added to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap that makes it possible to take away this kind of terrorist from the Netherlands, but these ministers refuse to make use of that provision on a larger scale than they do now. This Chamber has therefore taken responsibility by giving the cabinet the means to stop making these terrorists Dutch. That doesn't mean we have any more obligations to these people. But the cabinet refuses to appeal to that member who has added the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr President, on a point of order. I turn to you. I turn to you! I wonder if you, as the independent President of this Chamber, approve the words that Mr Markuszower used about this minister, about Minister Kaag, and about this cabinet being dangerous. Do you think that's possible? Do you think that fits within the written or unwritten rules we have here with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u32	Then I must make a substantive assessment of these words. I don't want to do that. Mr Markuszower simply has the right to draw his own conclusions. Unless he uses too many swear words, I do not think it is the President's job to respond to them. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu. Then he can respond to my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u33	Embrace terrorists? Hugting terrorists?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u34	Those are your words! I didn't even use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u35	I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u36	"The hugging of terrorists." We can look at the Acts. I'll take a look at your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u37	Go ahead! Let's suspend for the Acts!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u38	I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u39	Surroundings...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u40	I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr President, the 'huzzling of terrorists' are words Mr Markuszower used about Minister Kaag. I ask you, Mr President, that is not to judge whether you consider such words to be appropriate in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u42	I believe that Members of Parliament have the right to use such words in Parliament. It is a substantive opinion on government policy. You can either agree with that or you can't. I'm so sorry. If you'd like to meet about my position, that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr President, on a point of order. A MP here says a minister likes to surround himself with terrorists. That has nothing to do with content. It is customary for you as chairman to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u44	I won't. I believe that every Member of Parliament should be able to say what he wants here, unless the limits of the immoral are exceeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mr President, I think we should suspend this debate. I will not go further under a chairman who will not intervene if a minister is accused of surrounding herself with terrorists. I am not going to continue this debate with a President who will not intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u46	Okay. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr President, I would really like you to say something of this nature, that there is talk of a minister, about hugging and surrounding itself with terrorists, out of order. Then we can have this debate again on the substance, because there is enough to exchange about it. It's serious and intense enough. I would also hope that Mr Markuszower, whom I know as an intelligent man, was once even a senator, does not need to express that and to make his point of substance. There's a lot to say, but then you don't need to disqualify a minister like that and to meet completely outside the order of this Chamber. So I also hope that the President, in that sense, will restore order here in a calm manner. You can do that very quietly. You don't have to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u48	Well, I'm sticking to what I just said. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u49	I'm sitting here with amazement watching this charade. It is all about the tone to which Mr Markuszower has spoken. I wonder if the same indignation will also come about the content, about the return of terrorists to the Netherlands. That is what we are talking about today, not the tone of Mr Markuszower's words, so I do not support this suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u50	I agree with Mrs Bikker, who said it quite correctly. This is out of order; this is on the person and does not belong in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u51	I would like to echo Mrs Ellemeet's words. I'm standing here as a fresh MP, so I don't know how it works in technology. But I do not think that we can continue this debate in this way, with a President who does not intervene on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yeah, I'm not moving in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u53	Why does it affect content, if I may respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u54	I would first like to listen to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr President, I think it is important that we should be able to conduct the debate firmly on the substance, but that we should refrain from any kind of personal insulting qualifications. I know that this has often been discussed in the Chamber in the past, and it has been said more and more: 'Leave it to the Chamber itself to give an opinion on this rather than to invest it with the President'. I think it is fine and important to reflect further on this in the Bureau, for example. I do not wish to impose any further burden on the debate, but I would have liked to have said this personally. Let us be careful that toxic statements about individuals, whoever they are, contribute to a climate that we should not want to have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u56	Fine. Mrs. Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u57	We are discussing a very important matter of substance today, and now we are all discussing qualifications for the person who is not of added value in this debate, which I would also like to distance myself from, from which my group wishes to distance itself. I would ask Mr Markuszower to leave this type of qualifications alone and not to use it in this debate. That does not serve any purpose that we stand for today and to which we all really have everything to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u58	I don't need suspension. I think the ruling on the summit is unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u59	You may differ and you may use your own words here to a large extent. Mrs Kaag is not sugar, and we all know that. So I think she can absolutely have an opinion on this. We're gonna hear that one later. So I'd like to hold that freedom of an independent MP high. I think there is another political problem here, which the President is being attacked, but probably because he is from the same party. That must never happen. We have an independent chairman. It's up to him. So let us just move on to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u60	Wait a minute, I'm gonna listen to people I haven't heard. Mrs. Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yes, I would like to join with the words of Mr Van Haga. I would never use those words Mr. Markuszower used. Why do you have to do that to strengthen that power? But I do agree that Mrs Kaag can defend herself against this. She will, too. Indeed, I believe that the President of the Chamber is independent. I find it quite appalling that some kind of undertone here suggests that he is not independent because he is from the same party. I don't think that's possible either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u62	My first rules of my contribution would have been: I propose to keep a cool head. That is what is going to happen with the first speaker. I had started this interruption with a substantive question, on which I received a substantive response. My opinion on Mr Markuszower's statements is that they go far, far, far beyond the line, that this kind of grievance about a person should not be heard in parliament. But I do think it is up to the Chamber to express its opinion on this. We do that here; a number of parties do that, other parties do not. I do not think that is the task of the President, nor do I think that we should suspend the debate. I really think we should get back to the content. But my appeal to Mr Markuszower is to really stick to that content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u63	Thank you. So far. Then this was Mr Markuszower's term. If you would like a brief last word, but not too polemical, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u64	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u65	I'd like to hear Mr Markuszower first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u66	A brief reaction. I do not know whether I have said all the words that have just been put in my mouth myself. But apart from that, the substantive hook is of course that we had a kind of policy for years, VVD and CDA were the main protagonists of that, not to bring ISIS terrorists back to the Netherlands. What happened? We have a Minister for Justice and Security in the Cabinet, who said in writing: I would like to debate with them and I would like to give them mercy. That's actually true. From the other foreign minister, we know that she jumped right into it when he could, I think, after a motion by Mr Kuzu himself, so I understand that Mr Kuzu just came forward to ask for the suspension of payment to Palestinian terrorists to continue, please. I am therefore giving an explanation of the substance of the fact. How is it that we know great words from Mr Rutte and from all the VVD and CDA spokesmen to please not bring those terrorists to the Netherlands, but apparently it is happening anyway? That's the substantive story. My point of view is that it can only be said that the ministers in the post themselves have a large say in this. Mr Grapperhaus has written that he wants to do so, and so he does. Mrs Kaag has her subsidy policy and, by the way, I want to balance that of her predecessor Mrs Ploumen. So I also understand that the PvdA and Kuzu, a former PvdA'er, jump forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u67	I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u68	Apparently, those members of the Cabinet would like to change course. That's why we have a different course now. That is the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u69	Yes. So much for your reply. Mr. Kuzu, finishing up, because I really want to go to the next speaker. We're almost...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr President, I understand that you want to see the next speaker. I can also see that you are very annoyed by the language of Mr Markuszower. I can tell by your posture. I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u71	That's your interpretation. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u72	I saw that happen. I really do not want to table a motion and then the cabinet would do anything. It is a motion, an instrument of the Chamber, for which a majority of the Chamber has ruled, from CDA to SP. Your party didn't do that. Some other parties have not done so either. However, the picture you are putting forward, I hope you are aware of it, is simply dangerous, because, following your statements, I see media reports passing through in which the Minister is personally blamed for receiving threats. I'm really sorry about that. I find that really objectionable...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u73	Everyone blames you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr. Kuzu is speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u75	I see your group chairman using words like "witch" on Twitter. Is that the level we have to pursue with each other during such a complex...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u76	We didn't want to offend all the witches in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr Kuzu spoke. Short and final, because I really want to move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u78	It is by no means our intention to insult witches in the Netherlands, but the PVV takes a firm distance from violence, threats of violence or threats, whoever is the recipient of threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u79	Before we started with the points of order, there was also an interruption to the content. Although I do not think that the contribution has added much to the content of the report, I would like to help Mr Markuszower a little. Is it 1991 or 2021? I think we all know it's 2021 here. Is Mr Markuszower aware that the Internet was invented in 1991? Is Mr Markuszower aware of the impact of the Internet on security, but also on terrorist attacks worldwide? Is Mr Markuszower therefore also aware that we can better control the IS-goers and bring them to justice here, so that we know that at least they will not escape their punishment and we can continue to monitor them? Or does Mr Markuszower live in 1990 and do he have false safety here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u80	No. I think I've already said it, but I'd like to repeat it, you know. We really have a different view of the penalties in the Netherlands. They're way too low. At some point, they're walking free again. Indeed, the Internet plays a very important role in terrorism and radicalisation. It makes it at most more dangerous that a message from a few can be spread to large groups. But in the surveillance I think that Mrs Kathmann means a little bit of that, because the Internet doesn't necessarily have to help. There have been a lot of terrorists, including in the Netherlands, who have committed a successful attack without the police or the services being able to stop it in time. For example, ask Theo van Gogh how that all happened, or Pim Fortuyn. All terrorists who were walking around the Netherlands and could not be stopped, despite the Internet. The Internet, modern technology, is not a panacea. In 1991, there was a threat, in 2001 but also in 2021. We know that if you bring terrorists to the Netherlands, the danger will increase. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mrs Kahmann, a brief point to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u82	Given this contribution, I know that the impact of the Internet on the PVV and Mr Markuszower is not known. It's about terrorists outside our borders that we don't have in our sights. They can easily have big impact and make attacks here in the country because they hire errand boys and girls from thousands of miles away. That's what it's about, and that has nothing to do with within national boundaries. The boundaries have faded due to digitisation, Mr. Markuszower, welcome in 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u83	That only makes my argument stronger. If I understand Mrs Kathmann correctly, we seem to have enough threat in the Netherlands, including through hate messages spread across the Internet in other countries. And what does our cabinet do? It brings even more hatred back to the Netherlands. That reinforces my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mrs Bikker, please be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u85	I maintain that I find the previous comments out of order. But let us continue the debate and have the discussion about these comments and how to deal with each other, in particular with ministers, at a different time. There's gotta be another way. Mr. Markuszower has almost reached the end of his speech. He's told us what's wrong, and he's also told us how bad the crimes are. That is the last part I fully share, and that is the right thing to do. I think we share that. Only in the meantime there's just a lawsuit going on in Rotterdam. And if that lady hadn't come here, there would have been a dismissal of the law and this lady would soon be punished by Gouda. That's the outcome of Mr Markuszower's speech where he says, "It's stupid and it's not right." He has all kinds of other qualifications for that and he doesn't make any other suggestions. How does he see that? Should the government have sat on her hands and let it happen that Madame could walk around Gouda with impunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u86	I think the word "punished" is the biggest lie or the biggest excuse, the biggest joke of the day. To be tried here in the Netherlands and to receive a very short sentence for the most cruel crimes you can commit is, of course, not a punishment. So the impunity is that this terrorist was brought here, that's the real impunity. The punishment she receives is very low and she walks freely in the Netherlands without supervision. So what's my solution? I have indeed provided three solutions and will table motions on them in the second term. The first solution is to send the terrorists back, send them away. The second solution is: never again leave a terrorist of any nationality in the Netherlands. So guard your borders, send back all the terrorists we've brought to the Netherlands, and fix it somewhere else. Solve it everywhere, but not in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u87	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u88	That may sound beautiful and appealing, but this lady still has Dutch nationality...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u89	Then take it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u90	... and the right to come to the Netherlands, even if you want to take it away from her. You're gonna have to deal with that, but you're gonna stick your head in the sand for that. It sounds very brave, but it's ostrich politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u91	No, on the contrary. Then take that nationality away. When Mrs Bikker was in the Senate herself, she voted with me in favour of that law. Maybe it was just before our period, I don't remember, but a paragraph has been added to Rule 14. That paragraph 4 says that it is possible to take away the nationality of such terrorists, which this Chamber has made especially for this purpose. It then obliges the Netherlands to nothing more. But what does this cabinet do? It hardly makes, almost no use of that paragraph 4. The Chamber has taken responsibility, has given the Minister for Justice and Security and other ministers the weapon to solve this problem for the Netherlands. Instead of using this member to solve the problem, they will spend a lot of money and time, and will voluntarily retrieve the most dangerous people back to the Netherlands via a special Grapperhaus and Kaagluchtbrug. No one forced them to do that. That's life-threatening politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr President, I saw you looking a little frowning when I wanted to make an interruption, but we have been listening to my colleague, Mr Markuszower, for far too long, as usual. Now that it is going to be substantive, he said at the end: I do have three proposals. Then I went to pay attention, because that's what I find interesting. One of them is: Send the lady back. She's here now, but send her back. You have had a small debate with Mrs Bikker on Article 14 (4) of the National Law on the Netherlands. But how does Mr Markuszower then judge Article 14 (2) of the existing article, which states that the Minister, after final condemnation, can also take away Dutch citizenship? This means that this lady, after her criminal case has been completed, can also lose the Dutch identity. I would advise Mr Markuszower to ask the Minister the same question. Is that gonna happen? Does she leave the country after the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u93	In preparing this debate I was thinking: how are the CDA and the VVD going to make the turn today? Are they actually going to use very big words that I am using now and which perhaps I am using in the event of an interruption, but, if we come to an end, are we going to support government policy? How are they gonna do that? I didn't get out, but Mrs Derkzen is now giving me the answer: we are going to apply the pre-recessive tactics. I think that's on page 3 of the VVD manual, in case you really don't get out. What are we gonna do? We're going to press, and we're going to ask the Minister, please, after the 24 months, to use paragraph 2 of Article 14, because that might give us a hole in two years' time. But Mrs Derkzen knows very well that that is a trick on page 4 of the VVD manual. That's what the book says under the paragraph VVD tricks: we're putting it out for us. That is the trick, because we know that this Member is hardly going to be used. Is the VVD going to ask the Minister how many times he has used that member over the past four or five years? Then you will hear the answer: zero, perhaps once. We know that all those terrorists who are about to receive a fake punishment in the Netherlands will not be taken away from the Dutch. The Minister himself has already said something about this honestly: he prefers not to do so. He thinks that's a hell of a punishment, and he'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u94	I'll start my contribution soon. Mr Markuszower can then assess my substantive proposals on their merits. But I am simply giving him a handle on his part to make a substantive proposal to the Minister instead of just tattering and using all kinds of big words. We don't use it, so I think we're done. I will make my own proposals and I look forward to Mr Markuszower's response to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u95	That's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u96	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr President, the Chamber is a lot of army at once, but I do not take that personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u98	It's up to you to fill it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u99	That's right. Mr. Chairman. We live in a free and safe country, and of course we must remain so. I am proud of the democratic rule of law in which we live. Every day tens of thousands of people work, from police, AIVD, NCTV to all kinds of municipal officials, to keep it safe as well. The VVD fights with them, like so many here in the Chamber. We fight to keep this country safe. That is what my predecessor, Mr Dijkhoff, has done, and today I shall do so: with concrete proposals to keep this country safe. On June 5th, a lady, an IS-exhibitor, with three children was brought to the Netherlands. From June 5th this is like a stone on my stomach and on the stomach of the VVD fraction. Because what Mr Markuszower is saying is right: what does it do to our national security? Are all the proposals sufficient to ensure that it is safe in the Netherlands? Was this supposed to be like this? And if we have to, how do we keep it safe? That's my agenda, Mr. Chairman. I often still hear sympathy for these women here, also on the radio this morning. They'd be sorry. I'm definitely not going along with that. Even if you go blank as a woman towards the caliphate, which is hard to imagine, you still come out as a terrorist. In that sense, these women who come back are a concrete threat to our national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u100	Ms. Michon started her speech with the safety story. The VVD is a big partner in that, she says. But I wonder what happened to the VVD's confidence in our security services. We were at the same hearing together. The district attorney said that extradition or arrest is not possible if the criminal case is closed. The NCTV said: in the case of impunity in the Netherlands, all measures used in resilience are severely limited. The AIVD added: if the Netherlands does not repatriate, there is a strong chance that they will be released. What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mrs Van der Werf goes three steps further. She says now: we can't do anything else and it's what it is. I am trying today to argue that I will do so in a moment how we got here and what it takes to stop this happening or, if it happens, to minimise the safety risks. For example, he's entitled to a fair trial. I have a number of questions for the Minister. That's what's in the progress of trial in the region. I also have a number of questions for the Minister. All these elements I want to end up looking at this case and then, hopefully with your support, to find out what more is needed to keep our country safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u102	We actually looked at this case a few weeks ago. We then discussed with the security experts what their advice was. They all said that this was the best option. I wonder which of these experts does not really take Mrs Michon seriously, because I have the feeling that you are now looking for all kinds of ways to deny these things that have been mentioned there. I think that would be very unwise if you were to observe safety here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mrs Van der Werf has the advantage of her maiden speech today, because D66 is really different in this case from the VVD. The VVD criminalized the exit a few years ago. That was done by Mr Dijkhoff. The VVD has advocated that, as Mr Markuszower has just said, paragraph 4 of Article 14 of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap (Reichswet op het Nederlanderschap) should ensure that Dutch citizenship is taken away from those people who travel. Your party wasn't in favour of that, but my party was. The VVD has made itself very broad for trial in the region. I still see that as a serious option. I can already hear you say: that is not possible at all; I am not there at all. Now it's about an individual criminal case in which that expatriating lady invokes a fair trial. I have questions about this, because I believe that we must ensure that this country remains safe with all the means we have here. Moreover, I have not heard at all from those services that bringing these people here is the only option to keep the country safe. They did not say that at all. Then you've heard it in a way that you think is right, but that's not how I hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u104	Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u105	The reason for this reproach is that I quoted them exactly, but that aside. Let me make it very concrete. When, regardless of what you think of it, termination of criminal proceedings is close, do you at least acknowledge that the only option is to bring such cases back to justice and punish travellers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u106	I want these people to stay there, I want the Dutchmanship to be taken away from them and I want those people to be tried there, where they committed those crimes and where the victims are. In both cases, we're gonna see today, sit in hiccups. Not everyone who sits there has been taken away from the Dutch. We have made proposals to broaden it, but you have not supported it. My party would like to broaden that basis and take away more people who are sitting there. We want to make a stronger commitment to trial in the region. We're not there yet. That's what we're gonna talk about today. Now there has indeed been a criminal case here in the Netherlands. I believe that people should also be able to be convicted in absentia in these cases. That's what we're gonna talk about today. So you've gone three steps ahead and said, "There's nothing left but to bring them here." I'm not there at all. Moreover, this is not at all in line with government policy, because it is very reluctant to bring these IS travellers back, if only because of the situation in Northern Syria, which is unsafe. We have sent a lot of people there in a very specific period of time, with all the risks involved. I have questions about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u107	In summing up what the VVD had done to keep the country safe, it might have been appropriate, too.It had decorated her to be honest about all the cuts of the VVD on the police, on the prosecution, on the case law and so on. Anyway... The second point I would like to make is this. Ms. Michon-Derkzen said she sensed sympathy for the IS women. She may have heard that from an outsider on the radio this morning, but that is certainly not for people who are trying to take a nuanced stance here. Let me speak for myself. I have no sympathy for people who are still there. It has nothing to do with that. Those people have contributed to death and destruction. But why am I looking for a nuanced position? That has to do with the following. As a result of the VVD's position, it could be that people escape from those camps. That's happening all the time. We have been reminded of this by the security services. No one's saying there's no risk of getting people checked out. There's a risk of that, too. Leaving there might have bigger risks. That needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis. In what way does Mrs Michon-Derkzen show that she is aware of this, and of the risks of escapes and uncontrolled return, which may increase the risk of insecurity, here national security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u108	I note that we also heard in that briefing that out of the 15 people who escaped from the Kurdish camps there was said that there is no image that someone is now under the radar in the Netherlands. We're all acting like the escapes are leading them all across the border here. It can very well be the escapes of people who want to stay in that region and continue the work they have done for that purpose. But I agree with you. We're in that devilish dilemma, too. I agree with you that you have to make sure that you always keep an eye on those people. You have to bring them to justice, as far as my party in the region is concerned. But trial in the Netherlands is: not in the presence of suspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u109	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u110	Proclamation in the region is preferable. My impression is that it has been tried for years and that it is a dead end. We're gonna hear from the Cabinet what the options are, so feel free to ask your questions. But the fact that we don't know where the 15 people who escaped didn't mean that they all chose to stay in the region and never choose to return unregulatedly. Above all, I would like to stress that it may sound very tough, 'let them be there', but we really need to keep national security in mind. 'Cause how are you gonna explain it if you leave them there? The Kurds are not holding up at some point. The gates open or people escape. Then we really have a huge problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u111	I agree with Mr Van Nispen that we must do everything we can to keep our country safe. Anything necessary to keep our country safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u112	Clear. Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u113	I think it is important to ask the VVD today to be concrete. If you read what VVD colleagues and Mrs Derkzen themselves have said, then that is all very well. Mr. Elian, also justice spokesperson, compares these ISIS terrorists to SSs. Mrs Derkzen says that she prefers to stay there in that sandbox, and Mrs Derkzen used that word before I do. For example, there were many of Mrs Derkzen's predecessors who took similar positions. Mrs. Derkzen says it's not a cabinet policy to repatriate them, to get them back. But it is now. Since last week or since last month is government policy. They have brought them back and, as a result, Mrs Derkzen cannot deny that there is precedent. There can be a lot now and there are a lot of terrorists knocking at the door of Mr Grapperhaus and saying: Mr Grapperhaus, you have brought these women back, these terrorists are not women at all, they are terrorists, and now I want them too. Then all legal scholars say: that must be done. That's how the rule of law works. The question now is: Mrs Derkzen, what will the VVD do about this new cabinet policy? Is the VVD serious and will vote in favour of my motion that says "never repatriate again"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u114	Let me make a point of order. Mr Markuszower always speaks to me as if we knew each other from study time, but that is not the case at all. My maiden name is Derkzen, but I like to hear the name Michon first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u115	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u116	This is also a question I would like to put to the cabinet. For me, cabinet policy still applies. That was also the main point of Question Time that we kept together two days after the return. That was sharp, and rightly so. With you, I didn't think that June 5th was the best day. With you, I still feel that stone on my stomach. What do we do now? What the hell does this mean? Yesterday in my morning paper I immediately saw a lawyer who hangs out the flag and says: I still have eight standing, which I bring in now. And then I'm going to read exactly the Minister's letter, and I hope you will do the same, and I'm asking for confirmation of what he's saying, which is, "No, we're looking at it on a case-by-case basis. No, this doesn't mean anyone's gonna be brought back in the short term. No, it is indeed unsafe in Northern Syria. No, there's a threat analysis on a case-by-case basis." So I also want us to stick to the cabinet policy for picking up these IS terrorists, because that cabinet policy is reluctant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u117	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u118	In my view, that is no longer a matter of restraint at all. Minister Grapperhaus is also a skilled lawyer. If he writes "not in the short term," then all lawyers will know. What is "short term"? Is that a minute or is that an hour? It is now formal because of that letter, which I have read correctly, that cabinet policy should perhaps not be applied in the short term but in the long term. Even if Mr Grapperhaus didn't want that, he should be now. This step has led to precedents. To counter that, a party such as the VVD, the largest party in this Chamber but also the most important party in the cabinet, must ensure that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not do so. Will you, will the VVD, support my very simple motion that calls for out-of-travelers not to be repatriated, yes or no? Are you going to support it? Because then it's concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u119	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u120	Mrs. Michon just said I was tattling. Mrs Michon may think so, but otherwise what Michon is doing is just for the stage. So are you going to support it, yes or no? Just yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u121	When I read this letter and we have this case of June 5th, I and my party have also felt that my predecessors have done the same; I started my speech with it, strengthened and tremendously rushed us to make sure that we change the rules so that this can no longer happen. You're gonna have to end this case for a while. I'd like to do that. Then we will have a short time together, but we will have time to make sure that this does not happen again next time. That's my approach. That's not saying yes or no, ever again. Those are all simple quickies. We can tell each other that, but then we haven't achieved anything. I am in this Chamber to make concrete proposals for those matters that I am genuinely concerned about. This is one of them. We have a short time for that, but I'm going to work for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u122	Fine. You continue your lines. I'm doing interruptions in half from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr. Chairman. In the interrupting debate with Mr Markuszower, it was already a matter of precedent. I would ask Minister Grapperhaus to comment explicitly on this. Is the cabinet policy in place? That is what we heard in Question Time. Is it true that this is now weighted per person? I would like to ask the Minister what we are saying to that lawyer who's a wealthy lawyer and who's right about it in the morning paper. For for my group it is obvious: the government policy stands; we are reluctant to pick up. That is all the more so because Northern Syria is unsafe, as I said to Mr Markuszower. Bringing them back would put our own people there in danger. Anyway, the facts are that an IS woman and three children have now been picked up by the defendant's lawyer calling for a fair trial and demanding that the defendant be present. That a suspect in war crimes successfully invokes a fair trial; that is where my group finds that incredibly bitter aftertaste. In my group's view, physical presence is not the only way to comply with a fair trial. The right to be present in your criminal proceedings is not an absolute right. If the causes of the non-appearance are situated primarily in the risk sphere of the suspect himself, the importance of early trial outweighs the interest of the suspect to be present. And what is a fair trial in the eyes of a victim, I ask the Minister. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on what a fair trial is. That was actually the flywheel of why what happened on 5 June happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u124	I am actually quite happy with this speech by the VVD. It's pretty hard. All kinds of ways are sought to prevent these people from coming here or to take them away from the Dutch after trial if necessary. That's what you were just talking about. Only that Dutchmanship often runs into the fact that you can't make people stateless. These seem to be conflicting issues, so I wonder if for the VVD that UN treaty of 1954 prevails in which that statelessness is regulated, or the protection of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr Van Haga is right: the reduction of Dutch citizenship now applies only to those of dual nationality. My group is in favour of making this possible for people who only have Dutch citizenship. That's right, and you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u126	I'm very happy about that. Because I am going to table a motion on this later and I hope that the VVD will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr. Chairman. Then it's about trial in the region. I have read the cabinet's letter carefully and read in it that the cabinet remains committed to trial in the region, however difficult it may be. The option of the International Criminal Court and an ad hoc tribunal seems to have been closed, while there are also different noises about it. How's that? Is that now a permanently closed route? There's still time for trial in Iraq. The official contribution to the hearing gave a somewhat cautious, cautious picture of this. Can the Minister give a reflection on this and correct this? This woman has been picked up now. She's in detention and she's on trial for participating in a terrorist organization and preparing terrorist crimes. The maximum penalties for this are ten and fifteen years, I also say to Markuszower. But the practice shows that these unsubs are in prison for about five years. I can recommend you to read Ars Aequi of November 2020, what kind of lawyers are delicious leaves. Therein is a record of all things concerning the returners, with their punishments behind them. About five years, I've calculated. But you stand after serving your sentence...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u128	Do you think about your time? Because you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u129	Oh, yeah. I'm just gonna finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u130	You finish your sentence and then you're done, very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u131	No, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u132	You are ready, because you have four minutes' speaking time, and my clock is already 4:16.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u133	But I don't think the clock stopped at every interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u134	It stops at every interruption. That's exactly what we're at. But time flies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u135	Then I'll have to keep a bell on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u136	You have that freedom!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u137	Can I finish my contribution now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u138	I suggest you do that briefly and then we look at the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u139	After two thirds of the sentence, you're back outside. My group believes that we should put the perpetrators of these crimes behind bars for a minimum number of years, because at this time we also need to monitor them. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees that minimum penalties are justified for such offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u140	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u141	Can I finish my last sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u143	Is it true, I ask the Minister, that, indeed, after completion of criminal proceedings under Article 14 (2) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, the Netherlandserschap can be taken away? What does supervision look like after someone's been in prison?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u144	Thank you. A question from Mrs Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mrs. Michon just indicated that the route of trial in Iraq is an option. But we heard in the hearing that at the moment 30,000 fighters from Iraq are waiting for trial. I honestly wouldn't want to wait for that. I'd almost say, "Whoever deserves punishment is punished." Isn't it a good idea not to wait and bring people here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u146	My group has a great preference for trial in Iraq, if that takes a while, it will take a while instead of getting them to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u147	Even if that's gonna take another ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u148	As I hope I have made clear in my contribution, my group prefers that these ISIS terrorists remain there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u149	I share Mrs Michon's preference for trial in Iraq. But I see that there is still a lot of discussion about this, because it is said: but the guarantees of the Iraqi legal system are not all comparable to those in the Dutch legal system. That's right, but that's part of the risk you're gonna face when you go to a country like this. But what about Mrs. Michon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u150	I think that Mr Van der Staaij and I will find each other in that. These people knew where they were going, they knew that there is a legal system there that does not have the same safeguards and the penalty ceilings of the Netherlands. Yet they have gone there and done the most terrible things; they have already talked about them extensively. In that sense, I share the concern they may have less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mrs Michon just spoke to me and said that she had herself calculated the average sentence, reaching five years. By the way, that's awfully low for terrorist acts, but okay. I'm not much of a mathematician, so I'm just looking at what the minister himself says in answering the written questions. In answering the written questions on JenV's budget for 2021, you can simply see that the highest penalty imposed in 2020 for these acts was 1,460 days, about four years, and the lowest one and a half years: 540 days. That doesn't even include the one-third deduction. So it's net even much lower than the average of 1,000 days I mentioned. Believe me, and if you don't believe me, believe the Minister. They really spend 24 months in jail on average, and then they walk free. That's the big danger. If we had given them a life sentence, we might still be able to debate. Although, actually, you don't, because you have to keep terrorists out. But two years... Even those five years of your calculation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u152	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u153	Does Mrs Michon agree with me that all these penalties for such acts are punctual punishments in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u154	I agree with Mr Markuszower that these perpetrators deserve severe punishment. That is why I am also in favour of minimum penalties for this type of crime, because we need to be sure that these perpetrators are really behind bars for a number of years. And I think that even after their punishment they should be followed intensively, for example through the Long-Term Supervision Act. I read that there are all kinds of teams around it and then I think: I hope that goes well, because the more people, the more fuss. I want them to be in prison for a long time and then supervised their entire lives, if the Dutchmanship is not taken away from them after the criminal trial, with the article we were talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u155	That's what Mrs. Michon wants. Great. But Mrs Michon also knows that this is not going to happen. There are no minimum penalties in the Netherlands and there are no concrete proposals from your party to actually implement them, otherwise you could have done so last week or three weeks ago. It's not gonna happen. It's not here. Actually, it's a big frame and a fop what the VVD does here. This cabinet, led by VVD Prime Minister Rutte, imports terrorists and then gives them a low sentence. When I asked Mrs Michon whether the VVD at least supports the proposal not to do so in the future, the answer was actually no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u156	I expected this bouncer from the PVV. I can list a list of proposals that the VVD has all made to tackle terrorism. Those were concrete legislative changes. I can do that, but you're very strict with time, Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna do it anyway. We have made the stay on terrorist territory a criminal offence. We have the law strengthening criminal approach terrorism. We have the Temporary Law administrative measures to combat terrorism. We have strengthened our intelligence and security services, extending the powers to monitor suspects digitally. We have the Law on the Use of Passenger Data to Combat Terrorist and Serious Crimes. Every time we have this kind of big debate because something is going on and every time my group comes up with concrete proposals to make sure that we keep this country safe. We did, we do, and I keep doing it. You can really talk to me about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u157	I have two questions for Mrs Michon. The taking away of the Dutchmanship was discussed. That was one of the proposals to keep everyone safe. My first question is as follows. When a person does not have two nationalities but one nationality and you take away that one nationality, that is completely in conflict with international law. So how are we gonna fix that? That is the first question. Then there's my second question. Suppose we pretend that we don't care about international law as democracy and we take away Dutch citizenship. In what way are we going to ensure that all the mitigating measures we have available... The AIVD indicated during the technical briefing, which it was about earlier: at the moment we want to keep people in sight, they must be Dutch. So how are we going to prevent that? How are we going to map people at all when you say: you can't be a Dutchman anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u158	The reason you want these people to stop being Dutch is because then you as the Netherlands no longer have any responsibility for these people and you don't have to let them into your country. You do that to make sure it stays safe in our country. That's why you do that. I fully agree with you that this is incredibly complex international law. So here's what we're talking about. We have a democratic rule of law here, in which we respect all kinds of international obligations, such as a fair trial. You can see that we are actually competing with a number of people who do not respect any international law, not respecting any basic human right at all. That is therefore a completely unequal fight. And with our Western European standards and high international standards, we want these excesses to be dealt with, for they are these terrorist crimes and atrocities. I totally agree with you when you say that this is complicated, because how does it relate to the same international standards? But I still think that you should go down that road and look at the boundaries as well, because it involves such serious crimes and atrocities as well as such a threat to our national security that far-reaching measures are justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u159	I would like to hear from Mrs Michon later the answer to my second question about the mitigating measures that we can take when someone is no longer a Dutchman and how this relates to, for example, the rules of jurisdiction. Returning to international law: it is not very complicated, it is impossible. So on what assignment is Mrs. Michon going to send our minister out? With what message will we send the Netherlands to other countries? The Netherlands very often defends the democratic rule of law quite rightly, especially in the rest of the world. So if we state that we do not care about this democratic rule of law when we ourselves believe that people have committed too horrific acts, and we no longer want to take responsibility for them, then how does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u160	I think this is a nice debate of interruption, because this touches precisely on my question to both ministers, especially Mr Grapperhaus will answer that about the scope of Article 6 of the ECHR on a fair trial. That shall be completed with the right to physical presence. There will also be parties here saying "EVRM, throw it overboard." I am not throwing the ECHR overboard, but I am wondering whether, with regard to those international standards and rules that we have agreed, you can enter into the discussion and debate on what is a fair trial, whether that is physically necessary or whether you can give them a fair trial in such cases, while at the same time minimising your own risks and threats to national security. That's the discussion we're having. Mrs Koekkoek said that I did not answer her second question. I just don't remember. Can you ask me again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u161	This is already going to be Mrs Koekkoek's third interruption and I wanted to stop at two. Very briefly, to refresh the memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u162	To refresh the memory: at the moment we take away the Dutchmanship, there is a whole spectrum of measures...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u163	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u164	Yeah, she remembers!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u165	If we take them away from the Netherlands, then we as the Netherlands have no responsibility for those. So our services, NCTV and AIVD, primarily also monitor the Dutch extravagants. However, they naturally exchange information with each other in an international context and also monitor several IS terrorists. But the primary responsibility of our services lies with Dutch people, with Dutch travellers. At the moment when they are no longer Dutch, that responsibility lapses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u166	No, Mrs. Koekkoek. I'm gonna do the interruptions in half, otherwise it's gonna be real night work. I'm sorry. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u167	Mr President, I share...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u168	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u169	I've lost a little weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr Kuzu says he has lost weight. I would like to mention that in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u171	I share with Mrs Michon that we would have preferred to have these people tried in the region. It's not gonna work through a tribunal. This has to do with international legal objections; the UN Security Council has not adopted a resolution on them. You mentioned trial in Iraq. That is what the Iraqi Government says: we are only doing it when there are acts that have been committed in Iraq, not in Syria. How can you imagine that we should do that in Iraq, when the Iraqi Government says: no, only when it has happened to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u172	I should like to put that question to the Minister. I think it's a fair question. I read in that letter that we're talking to Iraq. So that road is still unlocked. We're still trying to try there. Whether that is true for everyone who sits there or for a very small part, is a fair question. I would also like to ask the Minister that question. So I think we should be in a good position to do that. In my group's view, therefore, we are wide-ranging and we are not restricting ourselves in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u173	At the same time, of course, there is also a discussion that has not only been going on today or yesterday, but has been going on for quite some time. I believe that the Iraqi Government's view is clear. I understand that you are going to pass on the question to the directors, but the question is, of course, when this is going to take a long time, and we know that this can take quite some time with bilateral agreements, which is best for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u174	As I've said a few times, we'll do everything we can to keep our country safe. So we try to take away a nationality, to take away the Dutchmanship. Article 14 (4) has already been mentioned a few times. They are 110 Dutch who are still in Syria. I hear from the briefing that we have had that we are now trying to take away Dutch citizenship from 17 people. 17 people who are potentially no longer Dutch, do not pose a potential threat to the Netherlands. If some of those 110 people could be tried in Iraq, those are people who are not coming to the Netherlands. This is a reduction in the potential threat and risks for the Netherlands. For example, we go through all the options to ensure that we have as little risk and threat as possible in the Netherlands per person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u176	I think Mrs. Michon is through her contribution. That raises a more fundamental question. I heard her use the word "resisting." Look, a month ago we had a little Question Time here and then you said quite clearly: there is no room for ISIS women to come back to the Netherlands and we certainly shouldn't get them active. Now I hear you use the word "retardant." Then a door opens a little. It's "not unless." I understand you have a lot of questions for the cabinet. Fine, we'd like to wait for that, but what is your basic VVD position? Is the door open to IS women from ISIS territory or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u177	The basic position of the VVD is that we must do everything we can to keep this country safe. And what I meant by "resisting" is that in cabinet policy there is restraint. That was also confirmed by a ruling from the Supreme Court. In Question Time we talked about the ruling of the Supreme Court of June last year: the cabinet does not have to make an active effort to get back. You saw from the elements of government policy it must be safe there and our national security must not be at stake that the cabinet does not actively collect. Now we have picked up one IS traveller and three children through the back door of criminal justice. I'm frustrated to the bottom of my bones about that fair trial where someone comes in. So today we're having the conversation about this little door. Can this door that's been opened close or not? How often does it open and what can we then take other measures to ensure that there is not or really will be picked up in all kinds of need? So I am not in favour of it, and my group is not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u178	And then Ilham B. was "never again" for the VVD, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u179	I understand that Mr Eerdmans wants this kind of statement, but I can't see the 110 people sitting there. Nor do I have any insight into all their criminal cases or whether or not they have a dual nationality. So I don't have a visual on individual cases. If you ask me if I want another Ilham B. next week, my answer is obvious: no!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u180	Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u181	I come to the microphone because at first I was actually quite happy with the answer you just gave, but now the door is quite open. This may also apply to 110 people. I understood from your earlier answer that you are against the return of such people to the Netherlands. I also hope that you will support the proposals. Actually, I had another question. Meanwhile, we already have tens of thousands of Syrians in the Netherlands. So it may be 110 people sitting there who may or may not, depending on whether you support those proposals, come to the Netherlands. There are known cases of ISIS fighters, Al-Qaeda fighters, Al-Nusra fighters and you name it all, who are in Dutch social housing. They won't be sent back to Syria. What are you gonna do about it? Are you also going to support the proposals to finally repatriate these people that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u182	We really have a range of measures here in the Netherlands to ensure that our country remains safe and to enable both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the mayor to apprehend people in cases that are not right here and which we rank among terrorist crimes, whether propaganda or contribution. So I really have faith in it and I hope that you also have that confidence in our intelligence services, the NCTV, the AIVD and the police, together with the mayor, have the people who are here in the Netherlands in sight, keep an eye on them and ensure that they are dealt with when things happen that go over the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u183	I hope so, but we have also seen in the past, including in other countries, that people who have been on lists for a long time have committed attacks. We can just work on sending these people back. It's been discussed here before. Denmark is about to start doing this. The Netherlands should also do this. Are you going to support that proposal that's gonna put those Syrians back home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u184	Now I hear you draw an entire asylum debate into this debate. I'm not really in favour of that. You had this discussion with Dennis Wiersma. I'd like to suggest that you continue to feed it with him. I am here to emphasise that our security services must be able to do what is necessary to keep this country safe. I wholeheartedly support them in that. In fact, I have faith in that, too. We should be proud of what they do day in and day out to keep this country safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u185	Mr President, on a point of order. I don't know if there are any other questions to Mrs Michon first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u186	Apparently not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u187	Mr President, I would like to return to the beginning of the debate and the fact that you did not intervene when Mr Markuszower made personal allegations to Minister Kaag that were totally inappropriate in a democracy. That's really bothering me. I believe that we should be able to stand very strongly against each other in terms of content and be able to hold the debate very hard on substance. But what we cannot do in a healthy democracy is attack people personally. Personal allegations are inappropriate, especially in the Netherlands, especially in a democracy that we are proud of. That really bothers me. In fact, I do not think it is possible for us to have a President-in-Office who will not intervene, because that is your job. So I'm filing a complaint with the Bureau. I think that we should intervene in this, that we should not look away and go back to the order of the day when we cross such boundaries. I have therefore lodged this complaint and I withdraw from this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u188	Yes, I am very sorry, but I am very much in favour of the freedom of expression of Members of Parliament and the right to express their opinion here, and I will continue to do so. I think people should be able to express themselves as they like, unless there's really going to be swearing. Then I will intervene, but I stand for the freedom of expression of MPs. The House of Representatives is free to make a personal statement. That is also what happens in general when people think that other speakers go too far. Mrs Ellemeet mentions as a border: no personal attacks. Try to get a President of the Chamber to give a ruling on when something is a personal attack. That's impossible for a Member of Parliament. So I stand by my decision not to comment on the substance of Mr Markuszower's words. Yes, Mrs Michon, thank you for your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u190	Then we are going to listen to Mrs Van der Werf's maiden speech from the D66 group, today's party pig. She has four minutes of speaking time, like everyone else, but she has said that she is going through it horribly. But you can do that as a maiden speaker. I call Mrs Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u191	Mr. Chairman. In 2014 I entered the political arena as spokesperson of Security, about a hundred meters away, in the city hall of The Hague; for the connoisseurs: the IJspaleis. That summer you saw here in The Hague the consequences of a war that took place in Syria and Iraq. On the Hobbema Square, supporters of the IS regime gathered, who loudly and clearly supported the jihadis that travelled through the Middle East. Women, also from this city, traveled after them. With a mixture of anger, disgust and wonder, I watched that, and I wasn't the only one. The conflict, the attacks and the flow of refugees that caused it continued to work in the political moods and relations. The Prime Minister of the Netherlands said: jihadists can die better in the desert than appear before the courts here in the Netherlands. That set the tone. You're either with us or against us. Reality was reduced to identity politics. Welcome to the world of the new compartmentalisation! The trenches have now become clear. Whoever's in favour of saving the climate is against Black Pete. Anyone who opposes immigration is for the Brexit. That's what happened in the security debate all the time. A position is taken and defended with man and power, before the question has even been asked: what makes the Netherlands safer? I would like to ask this question during my parliamentary membership, because politicians are more than just a mouthpiece of the lower abdomen, because politicians have a responsibility to make difficult choices, even if that is not an electoral option, and because false security should never be allowed to frustrate real security. The same applies to the recovery of the IS women and their children. A hearing with safety experts was therefore held on the initiative of D66. From the answers of the NCTV, the AIVD and the D.A., there is actually only one conclusion to draw: it is safer to bring out travellers than to leave them there. Here we can judge them, punish them and keep following them. Let's get them there, and they'll get out of that punishment and get back under the radar. Of course there are safety risks to every scenario, but the risks of doing nothing are many times greater. Fifteen women have escaped by now. Fifteen! Who knows if they're on their way to Europe? Who knows if they're on their way to make an attack? The question is therefore why the cabinet did not bring these women back much earlier. Why didn't the cabinet listen to its own services before? About 30 women are still in the camps. Are we going to pick them up now or are we waiting for them to escape or until the Kurds say they can't do it anymore? Do you remember, Chairman, the Kurds? They were allowed to select the targets for our F-16s, but when they asked us if we wanted to pick up our ISs, because otherwise they would escape, we didn't give up at home, while not picking up also doesn't mean trial. And not being tried means the security services can't follow them anymore. Justice and security go hand in hand here. That is why I ask Minister Grapperhaus whether he is going to make the most of his efforts to ensure that all IS women are tried and punished. Or is he waiting again for him to be corrected by the judge? This not only limits the threat of terrorists, but also their children. The longer they're in trouble with ISs, the more likely they'll radicalize. Mr. Chairman. Kids! A group that we must not leave unnamed in this discussion are the children of the Jezidis. The Jezidis were traded and raped as slaves. If they refused, they'd be burned alive in cages, including by our ISs. What would it be like for a mother to have to look for your kidnapped child after all these atrocities? About 2,800 Jezidi children are still missing. Probably a large part of them are in Turkey. Secretary of State Broekers-Knol told me during the debate on trafficking in human beings that she and Minister Kaag will investigate what we can do for them. I'd like to hear from the Minister what came out of it. Finally, Mr President. The position I am expressing on behalf of D66 is, of course, not new. When I responded on Twitter a few weeks ago to getting back Ilham B. and her children were "witch" still one of the more friendly reactions. That is a word which Members from this Chamber have not shunned in the meantime either. Funny, being a MP, a bunch of people said to me back then. Actually, the answer to that question is yes. Not only because of the honour of speaking on behalf of so many people, but also because of the rebuttal of identity policy. That is the choice I made out of total conviction, to combat polarisation and to make our country safer together. And I'll start here, in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u192	Thank you. A beautiful maiden speech, with a personal touch. That's how we like to hear it. We have another maiden speech from Mrs. Koekkoek. That is why I shall suspend my congratulations at the end of the Chamber's term of office. But I must first congratulate you on your wonderful contribution today. Then we are going to listen to Mr Eerdmans from the JA21 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you, Chairman, and congratulations, Mrs Van der Werf, with a beautiful maiden speech, which did not last very long at all. Or time flew; it could. Mr. Chairman. This is the debate we've been waiting for for a while, because it's kind of in the country. For JA21: whoever chooses the Islamic State chooses one of the most repulsive terrorist movements in history, with death and destruction and limitless sadism. It is therefore unacceptable for us that last month's cabinet actively recalled IS-wife Ilham B. and her children to the Netherlands, against the will of the House of Representatives and despite last year's decision by the Supreme Court that ISIS women and their children do not need to be brought back. The government's commitment is therefore not only socially but also politically critical. The argument to bring this woman back is also raging on all sides. The decision would be justified because otherwise the woman would avoid her punishment, because her criminal proceedings would be terminated. Of course, it is important for IS women to be tried and punished, but in the region, by the local authorities or by the Kurds, or, for example, through an ad hoc tribunal, as was proposed during the round table we had. Why isn't there a full bet on that? After all, active repatriation is not a punishment, but rather a reward. Ilham B. and her lawyer have long insisted on a return to the Netherlands. Which attorney have you been yourself, and which suspect are waiting for punishment? It doesn't happen. Compared to the Kurdish camp where she actively stayed, the punishment in the Netherlands is not a punishment, but rather a lottery ticket, you might say. Mr. Chairman. It's not that crazy. Yesterday, we read in the newspaper that an IS-propagandist from Uithoorn received six years in prison plus TBs for terrorism and war crimes which included inciting terror, the widespread spread of murderous propaganda, funding Syrians and the provision of bomb belt training. The D.A. demanded three years, only three years. Previous criminal cases against returned female jihadists usually yield about two to three years in prison. Is that the terrifying punishment for which we have to fetch these jihad brides? Do you see that in this relationship? We read today in De Telegraaf the message about Jezidis saying: the executioners are being picked up. That is the term of victims and people who are still staying in the Netherlands. They see it that way. They are often not savage victims, as is sometimes said. We shouldn't be naive about that. They are often people with a key role, the hub of the network, who are responsible for spreading propaganda. So they're not at all willless and docile. The AIVD calls the women at least as devoted to jihadism as the men. The testimonies of survivors also explain that the women were worse than the men and helped them with the rapes and other atrocities. In short, we should not bring IS women to the Netherlands. It is also a danger. We know the AIVD warned about it. Europol has warned against it. Koopmans and Ellian have said it: the threat comes from 'Every returner, without exception. Every returnee is a threat to the Netherlands. That's a verdict from NCTV. How do you see that, I ask the Minister. Where is empathy with Dutch society anyway? What signal do you intend to send to those victims in the Netherlands that I was just talking about, and by the way, to the next of kin around the world? Mr. Chairman. We also think that Pandora's box has been opened by the cabinet by bringing this lady back, Ilham B. Because right after the repatriation and the announcement, not only Clingendael, but also the lawyer of Ilham B., said that there are already ten ISIS women ready to go this way. So it's the beginning of much more. Looks like they're craving it. By the way, there are criminal cases against all extravagants. So that means we have a lot to look forward to. How does the Minister see that? Do we now get much more business from women coming this way from Syria? We believe that an irresponsible precedent has been created with this action. Finally, Mr President. It is clear to JA21: whoever joined IS has forfeited the right to set foot on Dutch soil one day. That is why my group wants to hear only one thing today: the guarantee, and nothing less than that, that the Netherlands will not bring anyone back from that area. Merci.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u194	Very well, thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union Group. I'm going to suspend for lunch around 1:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u195	Mr. Chairman. Almost no girl between 9 and 17 years of age was a victim of sexual violence. They were abused, despised and rejected. That's what the doctor told all those jezidis victims, hundreds of Jezidi girls and women, helped after they were captured by IS'ers. The terrorists of the caliphate of Islamic State brought hell to earth. The scream of all these girls, of all these women and of all these broken families, sounds. It goes through marrow and bone and calls for justice: for them, for the Jezidis, for Christians, for all those minorities, for families that are broken and for girls and women whose lives have been destroyed. That is why we, including the Dutch State, now have a responsibility to take on. Because that evil was also caused by men and women of Dutch soil, from our rich country, where freedom reigns. These people deliberately chose to turn their backs on it and make death and destruction. They opted for a different citizenship: that of the Caliphate. I deliberately mention the women, because the victims say: those women were the worst. We can't let that go unpunished. Every participant in the caliphate has glorified, encouraged and made possible terror. The Netherlands cannot escape its responsibility towards the Kurds who guard the camps, but certainly towards the victims. That is precisely why my group prefers trial in the region, in the place where this heavenly injustice has taken place. What possibilities does the cabinet still see for this? Can it do everything possible to follow up on this, including the tens of thousands of warriors who are still in prison and who need a trial? Mr. Chairman. In the case we are discussing today, my group understands the choice of the cabinet to intervene, now that there is a threat of dismissal of legal proceedings and thus impunity. Because it would be inexplicable to the victims and to society if the person concerned would return to Gouda with impunity and walk around in Gouda. I do have a question about that. It is not up to the Minister to review the chances of the Public Prosecutor in a court of law. But whatever the outcome: is everything ready in terms of supervision, in terms of deradicalisation and also in terms of security services to ensure, after captivity, that such a person remains followed and presents no danger, or at least as limited as possible, to our society? What title does the person who loses Dutch nationality by conviction remain followed until he or she is actually out of the country? Or is there still a need for legal instruments for this? Mr. Chairman. It can't be ruled out that women escape and return. Are the capacity and budget for supervision, guidance and also the security services in order? Mr. Chairman. A group to whom my heart goes out a little more, are the children. Kids coming here now, they're gonna be under government control. There are still dozens of children in the camps. What can we do for them in the short and long term, even when it comes to breaking the right to family life? They are actually the victims of their parents' bizarre choices. Mr. Chairman. I will return to the position of the Jezidis, the victims of ISIS. It is important that the Netherlands, together with allies, provides help. That also starts with recognition of that genocide for me. What steps does the Minister take to achieve recognition in the Security Council of that genocide by IS fighters in line with the Voordewind motion? And how does she inform the Chamber about that? In addition to the recognition of genocide, aid is needed. Yazidi Survivors Law, adopted in Iraq in March, is an important starting point. There is only one group that is not helped and that is also rejected within its own community: the Jezidi women who have had children in ISIS prison. They are sometimes forced to separate from their children and are despised by their own community. What can the cabinet do internationally for this group in Iraq, but also in Syria? Mr President, I will conclude. No matter how gruesome those crimes were, we must not turn away our eyes, but must seek justice. That's what I like to do. I look forward to the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u196	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Staaij of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u197	Mr. Chairman. The horrors of the IS-terrorists have rightly been highlighted and highlighted again today. Horrors like the executions, murders, torture and rapes were and are crying to heaven. Dutch caliphates, who share the responsibility for that kind of serious injustice, should not be brought to the Netherlands voluntarily. We must not let them return. Even if the role of some of them has been limited, these are not innocent people. It concerns people who have been deliberately and knowingly drawn to this area. We therefore agreed with the cabinet policy as formulated in the past, which says: we are not going to actively bring Syrians back to the Netherlands, our preference is to try them in the region. That is also what we stand for, and that is why we were shocked when the news came, that the reason for this debate is to bring them back in special cases. Why do we think that's undesirable? Because that affects our national security. The Dutch government takes on a great responsibility by retrieving extravagants. They are inspired by jihadistic ideas, have acquired close to armed combat experiences, are able to sympathize with others, in short, in many cases these are ticking time bombs. People who have chosen to go to this macabre battle scene for themselves have willingly and knowingly taken the risk of putting themselves in an impossible position. Syrians receive a much lighter punishment in the Netherlands than would be the case in trial in the region. Then it is not strange that they are now in line to return to the Netherlands. The Minister indicated in Question Time that this matter will not set a precedent. But my question is: what is this based on? What is the government doing in concrete terms to prevent more from coming? And can't there be a more active commitment to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in order to prevent the return to the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. For the SGP, the starting point is and remains to be tried in the region. I already indicated, anyone who knowingly went to Iraq or Syria to support a bloody and unrelenting caliphate there should not be surprised that you can face a severe punishment there if the battle is lost by IS. Kurds, Jezids, Christians, all those others in the area who have seen and experienced atrocities themselves, also demand justice. It is very important that the punishments do justice to the suffering that has been done to them. The Dutch commitment to an international ad hoc tribunal has yielded little. Does the cabinet see any serious perspective for this? And what possibilities are there then to ask Iraq to take care of trial? According to the SGP, the fact that the penalties in this region do not always correspond to the criminal climate in the Netherlands is no reason to categorically rule out trial in the region. My final question is therefore: is the cabinet prepared to continue to look pragmatically at trial in the region, particularly in such a serious and risky matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u198	Thank you. One more question from Mrs Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u199	I fully understand what Mr van der Staaij said about the sense of justice. I'm probably in something else in how we interpret that exactly. What I am missing in this speech is that there are not only adults but also children involved. Mr Bikker just gave it up and I think he was looking for ways to make sure that these children are less traumatized. But I miss that in this speech. So how are we going to take good care of the children who are involved and who are victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u200	I felt that Mrs Bikker spoke on this subject with respect. But I think we should also be careful in the past, as has also been shown in the past, that we are not going to bring the parents back to the Netherlands via the children in the end. Because of course there is always a connection between the position of the children and the right to family life with the stay with parents. So there's complicated hooks and eyes attached to that. But don't let the children eventually be a kind of right to return to the Netherlands, also of the parents who are responsible. It is primarily not the responsibility of the Dutch State but of the parents concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u201	How this happens to me is that we actually say: it is very complicated and actually we choose the importance of our sense of justice because of the importance of caring for the children, for the Dutch children, who sit there. Maybe I'm misinterpreting this, but that sounds uncomfortable to me. I hope that Mr Van der Staaij can reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u202	That can and can be found by Mrs Koekkoek. But we must also be careful that mercy towards the wolves is cruelty towards the sheep. It is not just a matter of fixing the position of people there, parents who have themselves taken that responsibility, also for how their children grow up. This can also be the case in all kinds of other countries in the world that are far from Dutch standards. This responsibility lies first of all with the parents and not with the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u203	Of course, it always does you good if Mr Van der Staaij thinks your words are worthy of consideration. As far as I'm concerned, the reserve that followed can be removed. I asked the cabinet to look at the possibilities of breaking the right to family life, because I believe that this is a situation that was not in mind when the treaty was concluded, namely that terrorists take or father their children somewhere. I believe that this requires an explanation from the various partners of the Convention. I would ask the Dutch Government to commit itself to this, with the other treaty partners. I really hope that Mr Van der Staaij will be able to support that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u204	I think it is a valid point from Mrs Bikker, but I do not think it is very likely. This has also been discussed for a long time. The practice is that if you would now bring children back from a situation because you say 'that's pathetic'... I understand all that and I share that with heart, but at the same time, in the given legal situation, it is also charging that family reunification is linked to that. When Mrs Bikker says 'That is how I hear her plea 'that we should not accept that and look at the possibilities at least for the future, I support that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u205	I follow this, too, but at the same time the experts say two things. One is that children up to 9 years of age are resilient and can easily change if you don't let them sit there for years. I think that is an element that we have to bear in mind. The second was also mentioned in the expert session, namely that you might have to look differently at the position of the fathers. That is why I am asking for a little more creativity from the cabinet, including in the international context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u206	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u207	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u208	That's the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u209	Oh, you're the next speaker, Mr. Kuzu. Then let me give you the floor again. I thought you were here to interrupt, but all the better. After Mr Kuzu we are going to listen to Mrs Koekkoek, our maiden speaker, and then we are going to suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u210	Thank you, Mr President. In 2011, the civil war began in Syria. ISIS emerged in a short time as one of the most fanatical, violent terrorist groups of recent years. ISIS is not only engraved on our retina because of the violence and the lust for murder, but also because of the rolling out of a ruthless online network, whose tentacles even reached our Dutch youth via social media, with fancy magazines, hopeful pleas, mountains of false promises, poisonous recruiters, sly preachers and twisted ideologies. It is also a network which has unfortunately been delayed and which has been greatly underestimated, for which innocent children are now at risk of paying the price. Because it was 2012 when our security services warned of citizens leaving for the armed conflict in Syria and Iraq. At that moment, no one looked back at them. No one took the lead to prevent that, even in 2013, a year later, when a group of young boys from the Hague Schilderswijk disappeared from our radar. Mr. Chairman. In particular, Islamic Dutch people were put in a bad light during that period. The anti-islam sentiment was stirred up again by the populist parasites of the PVV and there was even a former minister for Integration of PvdA house who threw oil on the fire by throwing careless and false investigations into the world. Young people were dismissed as terrorist sympathizers and extremists. A beard was already suspicious at the time. Only in 2014 did the then Rutte cabinet finally come up with an action programme. This was an action programme that focused heavily on repression and too little on prevention, so civil society in particular filled the gap that the cabinet deliberately dropped. Only in 2015, for example, was a family support point for radicalisation, for the parents who were ignored, were left alone in their grief, treated as criminals, were seen as the perpetrators and thrown away as the accomplices and sympathizers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u211	We had this debate earlier in which Mr Kuzu accused me of giving qualifications to two ministers. It's about importing terror, and one minister wants to show them mercy. We know from the other minister that if she can donate money to Palestinian terrorists, who then blow up a Jewish girl. Mr Kuzu made a big deal out of that. Can Mr. Kuzu explain why PVV'ers can be parasites, because if I listen carefully to him, he just said that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u212	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u213	... but I can't say anything about these ministers, while I also explained that it has an impact on policy? It shouldn't be. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u214	I'll explain it to you exactly. I refer to the views of the PVV which I find rather parasitic. You indicate that you cannot allow people from Islamic countries into the Netherlands and that mosques must be closed. There was even a candidate from the PVV who thought that a mosque in Utrecht should be burned down and that Qur'ans should be banned. If I add all these points of view together with the anti-Islam sentiment at that time in those years I refer to, and I hear the PVV in this Chamber like this, then I think the qualification "parasitic" even slightly expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u215	I do not know Mr Kuzu as a great spinner. Now he calls the points of view parasitic, but in his speech he talked literally about "parasites of the PVV." Has Mr Kuzu become a cowardly spinner or afraid of his own words?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u216	No, no, I'm sticking to my words. If you have parasitic views, you deserve the qualification "parasite." Mr. Chairman. It was even a study by Leiden University in which it was concluded that parents were completely overwhelmed, were left behind in an undesirable bewilderment with the hands in their hair, and this did not resonate with politics. An analysis of root causes, an investigation into the motives of travellers, an analysis of the soil then, but still today, the eyebrows frown. Let me be clear. The Syrians have decided to travel themselves and must face the consequences. They must be tried for their actions, and preferably in the region. But what we should not do is saddle innocent children with wrong choices from their parents. What we shouldn't do is leave innocent children as future prey to terrorist groups. I remember Grandpa Sinan's story very well. In 2019 he independently managed to find his grandchildren in the ruins of the so-called caliphate. Our government should be able to do the same. The cabinet must take responsibility for these children and not leave them to their fate. Let's not forget that these are Dutch children, 90% of whom were under 9 years of age in 2019; the age that makes far-reaching radicalisation and indoctrination remain limited for the time being. Since the chance of creating a terrorist ideology is greatest between 12 and 16 years old, the cabinet has only one year to bring these children back from this day forward. I wonder why this action was not taken as early as 2019. On what grounds has it been decided not to follow the example of removing hundreds of children from camps as our neighbouring countries did? Is the Minister prepared to recall all children under 12 years of age as a matter of urgency for risk of radicalisation if they pass the age of 12? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. The years of leaving Dutch children in camps cannot be justified. Every child has the right to a free life, every child has the right to a safe environment and every child has the right to protection, despite the choice of his parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u217	Thank you. Now is the happy moment of Mrs Koekkoek's maiden speech. We're gonna sit up for that. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u218	"... Ask yourself a question with which begins resistance and then ask that question to another ..." That's how Remco closed Campert over 50 years ago. A poem that inspires me to question the need, whether or not, which is hardly questioned anymore and to want to continue to see the world in all its nuances, despite our own prejudices. On many topics, even today, it is difficult to continue to question those own prejudices and assumptions. I think that is understandable, because open questions also mean open listening and compassion for each other. That makes it vulnerable. Especially on a visible stage like this it is much easier to be defensive or to go full-scale in the attack. Reflecting on the layering and complexity of what has actually been said and reacting to the person you have in front of you and not to the person you think you have in front of you is more difficult to score and, as said, more vulnerable. Nevertheless, with Campert's poem as a guide, I want to be and remain human in this arena, in addition to politicians. I'm new to politics, and what I've noticed most in this short period of time is that inside but also outside this Chamber, others are trying to decide what I think, what I stand for and who I am. Projections in black and white, without room for nuance or layering: you are pro- or anti-terrorism, left or right, pro- or anti-migration, folk or elitist, pro- or anti-Europe. It's a binary fiction that doesn't do justice to reality. Most people don't think binary, neither do I. Outside these walls, outside of political life, we especially desire to be seen in our own context. What we want or demand for ourselves should be given to the other, even here or perhaps just here in Parliament. It is precisely a vulnerability in critical and open questioning that we as a human being show our strength. The strength upon which we build together a strong community, society and the rule of law. A rule of law, the core of which is always to assure the other and each other the freedom to discover in security who you are, to give you the freedom to develop as an individual and to call you to account for what you do, not for who you are, what your origin is, where you grew up or what your parents did. Mr. Chairman. In this debate, we are doing exactly the opposite. Instead of questioning ourselves critically and then letting others move themselves through the answer, we fasten ourselves into fear and prejudice. What we are debating here today are not the questions we should be discussing. What's the safest thing? What's human? What are the Dutch and residents of other countries most helped with? Much of what has been said today is binary again. As if anyone who feels responsible for these Dutch children is a terrorist hugger. As if the actions of the parents define the identity of the child itself. It reminds me of a book, Be invisible, of Murat Isik. This is about a boy who, under the yoke of his father's bad reputation, grows up in Amsterdam Zuidoost. Out of shame because of who his father is, he imposes on himself an assignment: be invisible. Because if you're not there, you don't have to be afraid of the judgments of yourself or others about who you shouldn't be, about who your parents are or about where you come from. That is exactly the task we have given these children today: be invisible, do not exist. The idea of bringing women and children back from Dutch IS-warriors is a source of fear. I get that. I feel this fear, too. But fear is never a good counselor. A frightened Chamber leads to a scared society, but not to solutions. Worse still, ignoring the expertise of our own institutions can make the situation even more unsafe here. Who are we, as a chamber, to take the advice of our own security services and the state's attorney's office? Everyone comes to the same conclusion: bringing these women and children back and under the Dutch jurisdiction is the most safe option, for ourselves, for the countries around us, for the mothers and for the children. Mr President, I shall conclude. I would like to give the Netherlands a representative of the people who dare to ask and listen critically and openly, even if that means that the answer clashes with our own ideas about the world and the people about who it is. I would like to give the Netherlands the courage to represent the people. I cannot promise that I will always stand here without fear or prejudice, but I will try to grow over my own fear and always see the man who stands before me. At least I'll do my best to do that. In this context, this means that we do not burden the children with the feeling that they should not be there for their parents' actions, and that we do not ask the children to be invisible so that our fear may be appeased. The security and the borders of our rule of law are just when it is difficult an important guarantee. That means helping the children and bringing their parents to justice, and not acting out of prejudice and fear, but keeping the courage to continue to question and look, in justice and compassion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u219	Thank you. A nice maiden speech! Congratulations on that and "a frightened Chamber leads to a scared society" we're going to remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u220	I'll suspend half an hour before lunch. I wish you all a good meal. Then we'll listen to Mrs. Kuik from the CDA.
