ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	It is a special day, because it is the debate with the candidates for the office of President of the House of Representatives. Three candidates have applied: the members Bergkamp, Bosma and Arib. They have now taken their place in box K. Welcome. Fifteen speakers from the Chamber have now come forward. So we can again look forward to a lively debate. After the first term of office, I will let fate decide in which order the candidates will answer your questions. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about who will fill in the honorable position of President of the House of Representatives for the next four years. It is not only an honorable function; it is also a very important function, and now more than ever. Not only is our country in a huge crisis, both economically and socially, but we are also faced with a number of decisions. I'll mention a few. How do we keep our healthcare affordable and accessible? How do we ensure that there are enough homes to be able to live nicely in every stage of your life? How are we going to ensure that current pensioners, as well as future pensioners, can still enjoy a good and fair pension? How do we guarantee a viable and safe environment for our citizens? That is only a small selection of the subjects that we will have to deal with over the next four years, subjects that we should consider as Chambers in business and in fact, but which we need to understand how important they are to each citizen individually. In recent years as a lobbyist, but also last week as a new Member of Parliament, I have been a little surprised at the way things are going here. I understand that's not the normal course of action, but still... As a newcomer, I see that our support is very well arranged when it comes to ICT, facilities and courses. It's all fine. But I also see that the way we deal with each other in the Lower House leaves something to be desired. There is often a very detailed debate and not a general discussion. Many times the same questions are asked. There's a lot of theater. The atmosphere often hardens. Things are played on the person and often framed. Now that may have become part of the administrative culture, and that is why it is good that we are going to talk about this with the informant Tjeenk Willink, but in my opinion this way of dealing with each other increases trust in each other and not in politics either. I believe that the Vice-President of the House must and can play an important role in this. My questions to all three candidates are next. What do you think is the ideal governance culture in our Chamber? What is your contribution to this new governance culture? What is the added value as President of the Chamber in terms of connecting power between the Chamber and the Cabinet? What kind of supervisor are you for the internal organization? What can your employees expect from you later? How do you intend to ensure that the Lower House becomes more visible and accessible to our citizens as a gremium? After the elections, the number of small groups in the Chamber increased considerably. How do you intend to safeguard the interests of the small groups alongside a representative in the Bureau? Then I have a number of questions for the Members of Parliament separately. Mrs Arib, you write in your letter that the installation of the new Lower House and the accession of a future new cabinet will start with a new administrative culture, which I have just referred to, and that the culture of a reserved information position must end. How do you see your role as President in that? Can you indicate in detail how you wish to strengthen this information to the Chamber? This last question is also addressed to the other two candidates. Mrs. Arib, you've been President of the Chamber for four years. As far as you are concerned, what are the challenges facing your organisation? What improvements do you want to make? Mr. Bosma, you write that your most important commitment is to restore the counterpower that is the Second Chamber of the Cabinet. How do you see that recovery? How do you shape that? You write that the cabinet is not the enemy of the House of Representatives, but that Members of Parliament sometimes act as if it were. How are you going to ensure that more respect, more content and less for the stage are dealt with? How do you intend to lead the Chamber of Representatives? Where do you see concrete opportunities for improvement? Mrs Bergkamp, you write that you will make every effort to strengthen the position of the House of Representatives and will pay special attention to the expansion of the House of Representatives with more small parties. Could you explain that last sentence in detail? A huge number of debates have been requested in the previous period. Some debates had not been held after a year. I think it is important that we spend the time we spend three days a week on this as efficiently as possible. As a chamber, of course, we are there ourselves, but I would like to hear from you how you want to ensure that we make the most of the time we are in this room. Mrs Bergkamp, you write in your letter that you want to strengthen the administration and further professionalise. Can you further concrete out how you're going to shape that? You want more structure and predictability of the plenary agenda. Can you explain what concrete steps you would like to take to this end? Those were my questions to the candidates, Chairman. I wish all three of them every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. First of all, thanks to the candidates for the fact that they have applied at all, because without candidates we will have no President. It seems to me that it is quite exciting to be in box K and waiting for the votes of all of us this afternoon. In preparing this debate, I thought: it is a different debate than usual. Normally we have our election programme and our substantive expertise, but now we were talking about something else, namely people. I haven't been on the phone this weekend for anyone who wants to know. I have not actually been in contact with any of the candidates, nor with the group chairmen of the parties to which they belong. I think it's okay to say that in public. I thought, "How am I gonna prepare for that?" I've done it in two ways. First of all, I did so by asking my group colleagues what they think is important for a President of the House of Representatives. Secondly, I asked for this on the social media, because I also wanted to know what the people in the Netherlands would like to ask the candidates. I'm gonna ask a lot of those questions later. I don't propose them all, because I've got 225 and I can't do that within the six minutes I've given up, but I really liked to see that there's a lot of interest in asking the candidates. What does GroenLinks think is important when choosing a President? For this, I have to deal with the three tasks that a President has: chairing the meeting here, representing the parliament in the Netherlands, thus representing the outside world, and directing the internal organisation, to the people here in the House of Representatives. In the comments made by my colleagues in my group, I have seen that all three of these tasks are given importance. The first thing that was said was that a President of the European Parliament should have authority. Authority is something you must have and which is not always to be traced back to rules. We have a Rules of Procedure, which lay down a number of instruments for the President of the Chamber, but ultimately we decide by a majority here what will or will not happen. It is important for a President to exercise authority in this respect. We think that is very important. We also think it is important that there is not only a place for urgent matters, the delusion of the day, but also a great deal of attention is paid to legislative tasks and control. The Chamber must be able to do its job, even in times of crisis. For the past year, we have sometimes had a little abdominal pain. Homework, okay, but parliamentary democracy must also be able to continue. We believe that a majority should decide. Most of the votes apply, but we believe that minorities should also be able to do their job here. We think traditions are important, but we also think modernisation is important. It is essential that everyone in our parliament has equal opportunities and that there is also room for humour and relativisation. And then the questions. For GroenLinks, it is important for the Chamber to be able to take up its role as a parliament. The power and counterpower can also, if we look at the relationship between cabinet and chamber, be firmer in many respects. I would therefore like to hear from the candidates how they wish to strengthen dualism. How are they going to ensure that the Chamber receives the right information more fully and more quickly? And how do they intend to contribute to a proactive Chamber, which itself gives more direction to the political debate rather than a responding Chamber, which responds mainly to incidents and proposals from the cabinet? For example, do they see opportunities for more frequent inter-party debate, rather than always having a debate between the Chamber and the Cabinet? And not insignificant: how are we going to strengthen our co-legislative tasks as a Chamber? After all, the much discussed child care allowance affair also highlighted the fact that the Chamber has dropped when it comes to the quality of legislation. I'd like a reflection of the candidates on that. Finally, on this point: do the candidates see a role for the President that we are not only discussing short-term problems but are also working more on longer-term solutions? And if so, how do they intend to do something about this? Another issue that GroenLinks would like to hear from the candidates is how we ensure that the debates we are holding here with each other are also easy for the citizens to follow. I am now regularly told that it is difficult for a citizen how things are going here. The previous speaker was also amazed at the way things were going here. That is understandable, because people do not follow daily debates. But for GroenLinks, it is also important that people who occasionally follow a debate know exactly what is going on and how it is working. How do the candidates intend to make the work of the Chamber more accessible to society? And how can we get the input from society even better? And in line with this: how do the candidates think that a lot of people on the social media felt to make an important question even more inclusive for the Chamber? Then we can think about the accessibility of the building, but also more work with gesture interpreters in important debates, and perhaps there are other ideas among the candidates. For over a year now, we've been dealing with the corona restrictions. Parliament's work is sometimes affected, and it is important that democracy continues to function properly during the crisis and that the representatives of the people can continue to do their job properly. Because of the gravity of the crisis, it was in the beginning for all of us to look for a good form, but now that we are in this for longer and do not know exactly how much longer it is going to take, we must also learn from the situation as a Chamber and prepare ourselves for how we can ensure that the parliament can function in the future. What lessons have the candidates learned from the past year, and how do they intend to make the Chamber more crisis-proof? For example, how do they look at the digital quorum, as the First Chamber does, and do they see other possibilities to ensure that the Chamber work can continue as well as possible? Perhaps we should explain that we must always have a quorum here before the debate can begin, and then we must be physically present. So there have been debates recently about corona, and then half plus one must be here in order to start the debate at all. I've got a little bit left, Mr. Chairman. We've been in the Chamber since the election with 17 political groups. You could say that this is good for democracy, because many groups in society are represented. It also creates a responsibility for us as a Chamber, because we must prevent it from becoming unworkable to have a good debate with so many parties. My group is convinced that the 150 of us can do this in a good way, but we will need guidance from the President of the Chamber. That is why the question to all three candidates is: how are they going to ensure that we can have good debates with 17 groups, with each group having the opportunity to make a good contribution, but also keeping it workable? And how are the candidates going to take up this difficult task if they are elected today? I would like to hear concrete examples of how they intend to deal with this. And then finally. The Chamberwork demands a great deal from all of us and from our employees. And we have already seen last week that debates sometimes go on until deep into the night. Then I drive home at 4:00 in the morning, and sometimes I'm afraid I'm gonna make a collision, for example. I sometimes wonder whether the quality of decision-making can be improved if we have to meet here in the middle of the night. I would very much like to see a reflection of the 'Presidents' on that. And in general: how can we keep up the work here? How do we make sure the MPs don't fall over because of the hard work? Can the Presidents give us tips on how we can relax in between and ensure that we do not cross borders? I'm very curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. Mr Van Baarle from DENK has the floor. It would have been your maiden speech, but you decided to leave it for another time. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Let me, like the previous speaker, make the disclaimer: I also did not call people about who the President should be. First of all, a word of thanks towards the candidates. It's an important position you're running for. Regardless of the positions we have, it is a step of courage and a step of commitment. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Today, the House of Representatives elects a new President. An important position and a huge responsibility. We have seen what has gone wrong in parliamentary relations in recent times. We have seen how the Ruttedoctrine has had major consequences in ten years. The Chamber didn't get the information she asked for at many times. Sometimes she was seen as a puppy who occasionally jumped up against the government, but then had to go back in the basket. I have seen my group chairman Farid Azarkan toiling in the surcharge scandal. Over and over again, he didn't get any answers. Over and over again he was resisted. Over and over again, he got the wrong answers. The control function of Parliament is therefore under real pressure. Where power can go uncontrolled, there is injustice; unprecedented injustice. It is up to the new President-in-Office to ensure that this never happens again, to ensure that the Chamber is taken seriously and is once again the counterpower that it must be, and to ensure that transparency is increased and that the information that the Chamber needs is simply delivered. That's why it has to be different in many areas. I would like to ask all candidates how they reflect on that. What are they going to do to improve the information position of the Chamber? How are they gonna destroy that Ruttedoctrine? In addition to strengthening the dualism and the controlling role of the Chamber, as DENK we see a number of other important main tasks for a President of the Chamber. To all these elements we ask for a response from the candidates. DENK wants the President to take further steps to ensure diversity, representativeness and inclusiveness in the Chamber Organisation. We see that steps have been taken here, but it is not good enough yet. We see that diversity is secured in cleaning, catering and security, but not yet wide enough. I ask the candidates how they will ensure that the Chamber of Representatives will also be a reflection of Dutch society in all its diversity. Mr. Chairman. DENK also wants a President to work to ensure that minority positions in this house and minority positions in society are guarded and brought to justice here. So that means that minorities in society need to find their way to this parliament, but also that we are going to guard the position of small groups and minorities. How are you going to do that as a candidate? How do you look at that? DENK also wants a president to take the lead in involving more people in our parliamentary democracy and to make procedures more accessible and more accessible. Make sure that many more people know what we're doing here and know which channels they need to run to reach us here, making much more use of social media, for example. DENK also wants to know how the candidates will see their role in the exploration process, in the information process and the formation process. How are they going to bring transparency and confidence in this? How are they going to ensure that the Chamber is included, that we are also given the information on what is happening in that process? Mr. Chairman. As far as DENK is concerned, a President of the Chamber must also be a representative sign, someone who can, in a binding manner, perform the function of President of the Chamber in a multicultural country such as the Netherlands. Because the Netherlands is a diverse country. A President of the Chamber must respect all our differences but focus on what binds us to our parliamentary democracy. The Netherlands consists of colorful, multicultural, diverse communities and the President of the Chamber must be a bridge builder who is a contact point for all those communities in that democracy. Mr. Chairman. I am sorry to say this, but on the basis of this last criterion, Mr Bosma has already dropped out of DENK immediately. He just scores a fat zero at this point; I'm sorry I have to say it. And I'll explain why. Het Algemeen Dagblad described Mr Bosma as the best President of the Chamber that the Netherlands will never have. And as far as DENK is concerned, we're going to keep it. Because, granted, Mr Bosma may be an eloquent man, but he is also someone who wants to take away their rights from Muslims in the Netherlands, politically speaking. He is, in all honesty, a man with quite a dose of experience, but as far as DENK is concerned the wrong experience, namely the experience of systematically excluding people with a migration background. He is therefore someone who may make up for a lot of humor with a dose of humor, but he also comes from a political tradition that people judge by their origins. So behind that façade of eloquence and humor is someone who comes from a political movement who wants to close mosques, ban Qurans, makes xenophobic statements and discriminates. We must not forget that. How can such a person be an appealing, binding and representative President in a diverse country like the Netherlands? Do we see the headlines in international news when Mr Bosma would be elected President, someone from such a political tradition? How can Mr Bosma receive a head of state from an Islamic country on behalf of the Chamber, for example, or as President of the Chamber, wish Muslims a fine Ramadan? That's not credible. It can't be. Because Mr Bosma has made it a earning model to distribute the Netherlands professionally to the bone. Those are the merits on which we must judge him as a Member of Parliament. As far as DENK is concerned, this does not fit in with the office of President of the Chamber. In addition, the PVV advocates the withdrawal of the right to vote and stand as a candidate of Dutch citizens with a double nationality. So in fact Mr Bosma and his PVV advocate that MPs with a migration background should be given a position elsewhere and he does not take the opinion of all those voters with a dual nationality seriously. So how can Dutch people with a migration background trust that Mr Bosma as President will take their position seriously? That is not possible, because according to your views and according to the views of the PVV, you do not do so. As far as DENK is concerned, we do not put someone who comes from such a political tradition who holds discriminatory positions, in the chair of President-in-Office. Then I come to the next candidate, Mrs. Arib. The first question I would like to ask her is: how do you really think it has happened, for example in the area of the information position of the Chamber and the opposition power of Parliament? Because, of course, we have been through a lot in that area. Over and over again, the Parliament was in the dark on files and there was false and incomplete information in the surcharge crime, in the dividend tax memos and in the file on the civilian deaths in Hawija. That information position of the Chamber and the Chamber in its controlling role has simply been pinched over the past four years. How do you look back on that? What was your role in that? What did you do to stop that? What have you done to strengthen that information position and that controlling role in between? How did you use your position as President of the Chamber in that regard? And how did you bring all those individual MPs to justice who have fought against a government that did not give the information, against a government that sometimes literally sends letters to the Chamber a few hours in advance? Mr. Chairman. We have also recently seen worrying reports in the media, which at least the authors say they have followed journalistic principles. I'm not saying they're true, but if they're true, they'll be worried. I would therefore like to offer Mrs Arib here today the opportunity to respond to it, and if it is not true, to take it away. There were allegations in the media that you would favour the PVV because you would need the support, that the PVV could do anything, that you would already plan debates for the PVV before they were even requested. Once again, these are not my words, but I am committed to giving you the opportunity today to respond to them and to remove these allegations if they are not true. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the next candidate, Mrs Bergkamp. We know Mrs Bergkamp as a politician who has worked extensively in the Chamber on various dossiers and has achieved these results, and also as someone who has had some experience as President in recent times. I would like to ask you in particular: how would you do things differently? What else would you do? And how would you respond to all those points that we have raised as DENK, which we see as important tasks for a President of the Chamber? Strengthening that opposition of the Chamber, as President ensuring diversity and inclusiveness here in the Chamber, making that democracy more accessible; ensuring that people are hooked and that people in the country know what we are doing. Protecting the position of minorities and promoting the position of small groups in this House. On all these elements, I would like your vision of how you see it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a word of thanks again. Mr Bosma knows that it will not be him, that we will not vote for him, but nevertheless: thank you for being here. A word of thanks to Mrs Arib and Mrs Bergkamp for being here. We are faced with an important choice as a Chamber in choosing a President in that important place. I wish all the groups all the wisdom in this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. The chair of the House of Representatives is not a job of honour where MPs can be promoted to. The President of the Chamber is the guardian of the order, the spokesperson of the Second Chamber and the person who gives the Chamber its democratic teeth in that function. If the parliamentary process threatens to sink into the swamp of power, the President of the Chamber will have to bite and show that the Chamber is the boss and not the cabinet. If power and counterpower are in danger of collapsing, then the President of the Chamber must intervene and lead the Chamber to the dualist structure that we advocate. Mr. Chairman. For years, we have been running into the Chamber's lack of information. Pieces are going to be late, incomplete or not at all. At the Corona debates at 2:00 a.m. we get a fist-thick file that shows the latest state of affairs. This is disastrous for proper preparation and the Chamber is constantly lagging behind. Because of the doctrine of "no active memory of" it appears to be extremely difficult to control the policy with the information we receive as a Chamber. Pieter Omtzig already complained in the supplementing affair that he had to be almost journalist in order to be able to control the government. And the resistance to correct and correct answers to questions raised during a debate should also be improved. It cannot be the case that a minister does not give a reply in substance three times and that the President of the Chamber then lets the person in charge get away with it. We expect a new President of the Chamber to have a genuine cultural change on this point. This has not been enough over the past four years, and this is really going to have to improve. I'd like to hear from the candidates how they think they're going to do this. Mr. Chairman. Renske Leijten has previously tabled a motion asking for a President to be elected who will promote dualism better. This motion was supported by almost all parties, and that creates obligations. The counterpower must not only be well organized with regard to the capacity of the Chamber as a whole, but also with regard to the control of the power relations between opposition and coalition. While the coalition parties become more intrinsically monistic, there is a danger that the opposition parties will be sidelined after the formation. In addition, the ritual of rejecting and excluding certain parties is undemocratic and objectionable. It is very important that a President-in-Office monitors the balance between opposition and coalition and ensures that the whole Chamber is considered in a balanced manner. In addition, it should never be the case that a President of the Chamber is charging the appearance of conflict of interest or that a President of the Chamber may be put under pressure by a cabinet of which he or she is a member, at least his or her party. I would like a reflection of the candidates on this proposal. That is why, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy, I will table a motion in the second term to elect a new President of the Chamber from among the opposition parties. In other words, diversity in content, above diversity in appearance. The next point is the punctuality of the debates. With 17 parties in the Chamber, all the divisions that are still to come and all the debates that are already coming and coming out again and again, this is the time to improve the parliamentary process. Over the last four years, I have been surprised at the huge discrepancy between planning and implementation. Debates were often unnecessary, the rulers were endless and the MPs were distraught. It is really no problem to meet at night and to walk out for a few hours once in a while, but it is unacceptable that there is no structural level. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mrs Leijten, you have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	That question concerns the point made before. I actually follow what Mr Van Haga is saying, namely that it is desirable that you do not have a President of the Chamber who is actually part of the coalition, because I have been seeing the problems for years: coalition room members simply have more to bring in and opposition room members can simply be ignored endlessly. In fact, we should not tolerate that as a Chamber. Certainly a President should not do that. We have seen examples in the history in which that went very wrong. But we don't know what the coalition is. So how should we proceed, apart from the procedural point that we have only one deadline? How are we supposed to do that? Should we choose now and then, if there is a coalition, should we elect a new President of the Chamber? What does Forum propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	Before you answer, there is the possibility of a second term. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	That's a very good point. The first point I wanted to make is that a President must take this into account, and that the balance between coalition and opposition must be properly determined. A second easy answer is: because there are certain parties here that have previously excluded other parties, it is obvious who will not be in the coalition. So we have a simple choice to choose someone who doesn't join the coalition anyway. But you are absolutely right: that is procedurally a bit weird. If you really choose to do so, therefore, the motion also says "preferably"...............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	I think that's quite an interesting thought. I have really many examples of MPs simply being silenced for coalition interests. When we ourselves as a Chamber do not play the role that we should play, I do not think it really matters whether the President of the Coalition or the opposition is because the Chamber does not show its teeth. What exactly does Forum think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mrs Renske Leijten is absolutely right. The Chamber shows far too little of its teeth, and you are the clear example, along with a single other Member of Parliament, of how things can be different. But you're also from the opposition, so I think the question needs to be put more to the MPs of the coalition: do your job, be an independent MP, demand that you get your information and get through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	Finally, the next question, or perhaps an appeal to the Forum for Democracy. Many of these procedures, whereby you are excluded as an opposition, take place in the so-called procedural meetings. Those are order meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	For example, we have fought a great deal about the ridiculous treatment of the Tax Plan. I'll deal with that in my term. Year in, year out it was just not to do and we made mistakes in doing so. Never, but never, was there anyone from the Forum present at those proceedings to strengthen the opposition against that coalition pressure. Will we therefore agree that everyone, especially Forum, will play their role behind the scenes? Because there is also a lot of battle going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	This is the argument that is often used. If you're a small party, it's physically impossible to be anywhere. I've had to do everything on my own for a year. I can tell you that it is impossible to be present at all these different meetings. I believe there are 60 different portfolios with four activities per week. That's 240 activities a week. That is simply impossible. The Forum for Democracy has indeed not been everywhere. I don't think the SP has been able to be present everywhere either. There are eight of us now and we're at almost the same strength as your party, so we're going to do our best to meet this. This is without prejudice to the fact that it may also be possible to do it all a bit more efficiently here, because these endless, endless meetings are often unnecessary. We in the Chamber might be able to cut back on that and deal with it a little more efficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	I'm moving on. In any case, we would like to see a President who keeps to the times with military precision, so that the debates are over at a normal time. If it is agreed that you will have some interruptions, those interruptions should also be somewhat limited. I am well aware that time also runs out very often, because the rulers are busy for so long. Perhaps something can be done about that too, because often it is not really very meaningful what is being said. In addition, the balance must be made between experience and a fresh wind. With all due respect to the current President-in-Office, who deserves all the compliments for her unbridled commitment, we think it is not bad to make room after two periods for someone who can shake things up a bit. In business, it is an excellent routine to move to a position elsewhere after a certain period of time. At the same time, it is essential to have a new pair of eyes look at the same things after a number of years. We would therefore like to inform the Chamber that, as far as we are concerned, it is better to elect a President of the Chamber who can keep the existing procedures under review. Mr. Chairman. Because of all the troubles in recent years and especially the apotheosis in recent days, it is very important that we have a President of the Chamber who can restore confidence. I do not mean the confidence in the cabinet or in individual directors, but the confidence in the power, functioning and power of the House of Representatives. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Power and counterpower"; we have heard these words before today and in recent days too, sometimes to the point, because they were even used by those who have actively marginalized or tried to marginalize the counterpower in recent years. All the candidates present here want to strengthen that counterpower. They want to strengthen the position of the Chamber. My first question is very broad and very concrete. How are you going to do that? That is, of course, closely linked to the Leijten and others motion. which was adopted unanimously last week. That motion extended the Chamber's remit by promoting dualism between the government and the House of Representatives, bearing in mind the possibility of a careful and thorough examination of legislative proposals, now that the Chamber is composed of more groups. My second question is about this careful legal treatment. The agenda of the plenary is always very full. This could mean replacing a plenary debate on a legislative proposal with a legislative consultation. That is at the expense of speaking time. The smaller groups in particular are the victims of this. Legislative proposals deserve a normal plenary session, with sufficient time to ask questions and make motions. Do the candidates agree with me? And, if they agree with me, how will they, as President, work to ensure that the co-legislative role of the Chamber is properly served? Then there's the information to the Chamber. We still see that the press is often informed by the government rather than the Chamber, usually due to a well-chosen leak from government circles. Members of Parliament and President of the Chamber will be angry and will be ashamed of it, and the government will never, ever promise never to do it again, but the next time it will be funny again. How do the candidates intend to act against this? More can be said about the information position of the Chamber. We have seen too often over the past period that the Chamber did not get the information it needed for its controlling task at all. The failure or incomplete information of the Chamber was so structural that even a doctrine was named after it: the Ruttedoctrine. My fourth question to the candidates is: how are they going to fight for the right to information of the Chamber and individual Members of Parliament, including the small groups? Do the candidates see a role for themselves to sit behind directors if that information is not timely or undersized? And how are they gonna do that? Mr. Chairman. My group would like to express its appreciation for the work started by the previous Presidents of the Chamber: to make Parliament more accessible and to ensure that citizens are able to get what we are doing here by following debates and reading documents. I trust that the candidates intend to continue along that path. I would like to hear their views on this. Finally, a point that is also important for the Party for Animals. Four weeks ago, we heard from various media reports from RTL, but also from the NOS, that the Prime Minister often didn't let women rulers speak, interrupt or shut down during meetings. The Prime Minister said he wasn't aware of that, and he promised to get better. I call this to indicate how unbridled and casual this kind of behavior can almost become "usual." There should certainly be no evil intentions behind it, but when it happens, we should be aware of it. I would like to ask the candidates how he or she will prevent this unintended distinction from being made. How's he or she gonna watch this? Mr President, this was my last question. I would like to thank the candidates Mr Bosma, Mrs Arib and Mrs Bergkamp for their willingness to take on the role of President of the Chamber and for their fine letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. As my predecessor and former colleague Ronald van Raak said: we are all passers-by here, it is about the institute. The same applies, of course, to Presidents. They're passers-by, too. It's about the institute. We are the representatives of the people elected by the people of the Netherlands, so the President must represent us all outside and in debates, so that all our voices may sound, but it must also ensure that the institution keeps running despite the passers-by that we are. Despite the fact that the passerby who stands here has been there for a while, I remember very well how my first legal treatment went. Of course I got help in my own group. But what exactly was the difference between an amendment and a motion? And then you have to do your maiden speech. I found that exciting, but I was so well assisted by Bureau Legislation, by the support of the Registry who explained that to me and who also knew that I had to submit it in the second term. All things that make a lot of sense when you're here for longer, but when you're here and you still have to get to know everything, they're incredibly exciting. I was here a while before I became a Member of Parliament, so I already knew about the important job of Security, the Facility Service, our people in cleaning and how accessible they are. The official back, that machine, I've come to know as integrity, loyal, very hard-working. 'Cause we're MPs who all want something. We're demanding. I have had committee meetings, and I have been in quite a number of places since then, with the majority saying: we want to do so and we want to ask these questions. It all has to be arranged, and it will be arranged. We owe money to our parliament's engine room as passers-by. I would like to know from all the Presidents-designate: how do we maintain this machine as well as possible, so that it keeps running, so that loyalty and service to everyone, regardless of which Member of Parliament, remains? Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention the following. We are debating whether a motorway should be built or not. Mrs. Den Haan made it quite a point that we seem to have a huge fight when it comes to where to go with the country. But if we have representative functions as Chambers with different parties, I have seen that in the European Affairs Committee; then we all have to represent our Parliament, for example at a meeting with other parliaments in a European context, and then that preparation is so good that we can do so, then we are of different political colours, but then we represent the Dutch Parliament. I was allowed to sit on two interrogation committees: the Nijboer Committee and the Van Dam Committee. Then you see that we are all different and all have a different background, foreground and perspective, but that we know how to operate in unity. That is made possible, if not possible at all, by that engine that is behind us. We're moving, we're having two parliamentary surveys, and I'm sure we'll have a third, so we have some assignments. Then I read the letters of the candidate presidents, and I wonder at all of them, when they all have that experience because they have all been on the board of this Chamber, just like you, President-in-Office, how things stand. Is that okay? Mr. Chairman. The next point I would very much like to address is that I think that we as a Chamber should say: an attack on one is an attack on all. We just had the big debate about "position omtzigt, function elsewhere," about Pieter omtzigt. Of course, it's very important to me. We had to fight so hard together. I think that many MPs and certainly people in society have really thought: how then, why? If the government makes a mistake or there's policy going off the rails, confess it, straighten it out, but don't cover it up. To this day, it is tearful how that is handled. But that "attack on one is an attack on all" happens much more often. I remember so well that, together with Mona Keijzer and Fleur Agema in the Committee on Public Health, I strongly opposed 10 billion cuts by Van Rijn. That was no fun for Secretary of State Van Rijn. But there came an atmosphere that that was the "little bitch committee." They laughed about that, didn't they? Journalists tweeted about it. They laughed about it in the room. For at least three years, our control of that mega-saving was eliminated. After all, if we were going to do just as much work on that, then we were shivering bitches, and you don't have to listen to that, do you? Cartoons in the newspaper: it was really not normal! It didn't stop until the current President of the Chamber, Mr Arib, started saying something about it and became active. But that did not happen until there was a new cabinet and the Labour Party was out of power. That is why I did agree with Van Haga from the Forum for Democracy that part of the power is in place. I have seen that in very good roommates too, she has opted for 'yes, shit, that must be achieved for the government, that cuts must be made'. We really need to stand in front of Parliament! Zihni Özdil, former member of the GroenLinks Chamber, said: I have sometimes submitted the same parliamentary questions as Harry van der Molen of the CDA and yet the government party received a completely different answer from the opposition party. You can't do that anymore! That cannot be done with a President of the Chamber standing before it, but we must also agree to it as a Chamber. 'Cause you might laugh at the fact that those squeaky bitches were being dealt with, but next time it's you. Then your work just gets knocked out of your hands. That's what we really need to do with each other. It is not us that gets rid of the work, it is out of the hands of the people who vote for us, who we represent. If we allow this, it will undermine the democratic value of us as Chambers. I therefore believe that this is also detrimental to democracy in itself. Let's go to now. We have a very diverse Chamber and we have more groups than ever, including small groups. I think it should be about dualism, which was my plea just now, but also that it should be about making the co-legislative process possible. That is why I tabled that motion last week, fortunately supported by the entire Chamber. If we get a tax plan on Princess Day with nine laws and 900 pages, which we have to discuss in two months, then the next President of the Chamber should actually say: we're sending it back to the Ministry of Finance. Figure it out. That is not acceptable to a large group either. Nor could the SP Group in the previous period. That's irresponsible. That's where mistakes are made. Blaming the Chamber for that is a really easy mechanism. We see that happen a lot. If it goes wrong with executive agencies, then the Chamber has passed wrong laws. But we are making it impossible for ourselves and the President should say: we are not doing this anymore. It was Senator Hoekstra, now in office and later minister of the same ministry, the Ministry of Finance, who said: "It is no longer allowed. It is not good for parliamentary control." And yet, five years later, it hasn't been solved. I would actually like to ask the President-in-Office: how are you going to solve this? This can't be happening. I call implementation legislation from Europe. Something is being decided in Europe. A country must introduce a directive. It's been two years. The Chamber then sometimes has one month to do so, because the Ministry spends the rest of the time changing. We shouldn't allow that. We just have to say: we can't handle it; send it back. That brings me to the next question. We're talking a lot about power and counterpower these days. I would like to ask the President-in-Office: is the Chamber the power or the counterpower? I believe that we are the power. We are the power. A government is made up of this parliament. He does things. But we are the power, aren't we? If we are always seen as a counterpower, we can work until we fall down or get sick, unfortunately that happens to colleagues of our own, but it is not supposed to be. We are the power! Finally, Mr President. I started with my dear predecessor Ronald van Raak and I want to end with that. In every debate he has held here with President-designate of the Chamber, he asked the question: what do you think is a representative of the people? I would also like to ask these President-in-Offices. What exactly is a representative of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr President, thank you. Our country is not a collection of individuals moving separately through random space. We're a community or we should be more. The House of Representatives is a reflection of this. The face of our Chamber, the President, symbolizes our democracy, which can only survive knowing that we have something together and that we belong together, no matter how different we are. In this house all opinions are heard and weighed. Here we are debating the sharpest part of the cut, but with respect. And our democracy can only survive in the knowledge that only the self-interest or one's own equal, without open ear or open heart to the other's opinion, does not bring us any further. This fascinating process may be the subject of a co-direction by a President. Presidential applications are always exciting, let alone in front of the whole of the Netherlands. So first of all thanks to the candidates who dare to stick their necks out here and are prepared to take on this important task of President of the Chamber. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the current President-in-Office, whatever the outcome, for the work she has done in recent years. For the CDA, the role of President of the Chamber is very important for the functioning of the Chamber. I therefore have a number of questions for the President-in-Office. First of all, I would like to mention the role of the President in monitoring the position of Parliament and its monitoring role towards the government. Information law is one of our most important instruments. It is necessary for Members of Parliament if they are to be able to exercise the role of auditor properly. We have seen too often, and not only in the case of the premium affair, that there are very late or even no answers to a lot of questions from the Chamber, or that information finally comes to us on the basis of Wob requests. How will you, as President, promote the timely and complete information of the Chamber? What kind of President is the cabinet going to find on this point? In the profile sheet it has been explicitly added that we also see a task for the President of the Chamber when it comes to promoting dualism and careful legislation. How do the candidates intend to strengthen the transparency of the parliamentary process? What role do you see for yourself when it comes to the careful handling of legislation? How do you deal with the tension between the freedom of the debate on the one hand and the quality of the debate on the other? I have a specific question for Mrs Bergkamp, because she explicitly refers to this in her letter. How do you intend to monitor the balance between time for careful legislation and 17 groups, who, as we saw yesterday, are all enthusiastically requesting a debate and have to do a lot of work in relatively small teams? Mr. Chairman. For effective Chamberwork, we also need healthy MPs. We have seen in recent years, even here in this Chamber, that long debates with limited meal breaks change colleagues. Sometimes their health got to them. How are you going to help the Chamber protect itself from itself? Because the long-term desire for short-term success can stand in the way of good chamber work in the long term. Another task is to direct the administrative support of the Chamber. I have the following questions to the President-in-Office. Can you give insight into your style of leadership? What experience do you have? What is your working culture? And what actions do you intend to take to that end? I ask the President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Arib, how do you look back at the way in which you have led the civil service in recent years? Is there anything else you'd do in the future? As President of the Chamber, you represent the Chamber at home and abroad. I have a specific question for Mr Bosma. We know you as Vice-President. That's what inspires you. Can you also give a picture of how, as a symbol of our democracy, you are going to carry out your role abroad? Mr. Chairman. It's quite a role to be President of the Chamber. The President of the Chamber is the face of our Chamber and has an influence on the image that people get from Dutch politics and democracy. It is very important to pay attention to understandable language. The President conveys the democratic values we all stand for. I look forward to hearing the answers from the candidates, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you. I call Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Somehow March 17th seems a long time ago; at least for me it is. At that time we were all elected as members of the House of Representatives, as representatives of the people of all the Netherlands. The Constitution states that each Chamber shall appoint a President from among its members. Today's the day. The Christian Union Group would like to thank the three members who were able to stand as President of the Chamber. It's a great thing to be chosen from among us, but it's also a snappy step, with 147 colleagues watching and thinking along in this application process. I would therefore like to thank all three Members for their step forward. The Presidency of this Chamber is not only technical, it is not a management function; it contains much more. It calls for the participation of democracy. In fact, it calls for the democratic rule of law to be part of it. In it, people's representatives, from their values and beliefs, also shape society, by seeking what is good, questioning each other and in order to control the government. In all conscience, we serve justice together. This will enable laws to be formed, the democratic rule of law to function and the Dutch to be well represented. This is a responsible task. The reports from the last parliamentary term, both the Van Dam Committee's report on the supplementing affair and the Bosman Committee's report, underline the importance of carrying out this task properly. Today, this Chamber elects its President. Whichever of these three valued candidates it becomes, it becomes someone who is experienced and who has been poked and beaten in the mores of the Binnenhof. In the light of this experience, I would like to ask all three candidates what reinforcement they consider necessary for the proper functioning of the Lower House in the assessment of legislation. The reports by Van Dam and Bosman underline the need for them. How can the Chamber be the proverbial lion, as it was once described by former President Vondeling? What's that gonna take at this time? What role does the President have in this? What can the Christian Union expect of the candidates in the coming period if they are elected? As in 2017, Mrs Arib pointed to the strengthening of the Parliament's information position. I would also like to ask her whether there are any things that she has not been able to achieve in recent years. What would she like to make more concrete in the coming period? In its new composition, the Chamber consists of many groups, including many small groups. There are many things written about this, but our order is so arranged that it should not be necessary to have a large group to do the Chamber work properly. The Constitution has no political groups. All Members of Parliament, including the one-man groups, must therefore be able to do their job well. How does the President deal with this difference in group size? I'd like an answer to that. How is it ensured that groups are given sufficient space and time to assess legislation? I understand from my colleagues that this has not always been the case in recent years. How can you guarantee this, not only in terms of desirability, but also in terms of quality and feasibility? In recent weeks, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has stressed the need to renew our commitment to democracy and its proper functioning. Each time has new challenges. At this time, with multiparty coalitions and often also a minority cabinet in the First Chamber, a healthy relationship between Chamber and Cabinet is a challenge. How do we promote such a dual role of the Chamber? In what way does the President seek to do this, in which dualism is something other than polarization? In what way does the President keep the discussion on this matter ongoing? Mr. Chairman. The members of this Chamber shall elect a President from among their number. That works, if we are honest, only because the people around us work with heart and soul to make this institution and this organization function. Working day and night is done, at the Registry, at the reporting service, by the messengers, at the Automation Service and also at the political groups. In the letters of the candidates, the Christian Union reads about the commitment to further professionalise this, but can the candidates also make that a little more concrete? More importantly, how does this organisation remain a good, safe and warm place to work, especially when it so often demands everything from people, even in the late hours? Finally, I would like to ask the candidates how they want to fulfil their role to all those people outside the Binnenhof, especially if there is still a full party political role, as with Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Bosma. In what way do you want to be recognizable as President of the entire Chamber? Can you explain how you deal with groups in society which may well be far removed from the beliefs that your party programme carries and which you have with it yourself? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. In this new period, the Christian Union Group sees most of the task for the President of the European Parliament to contribute with all its heart to a strong parliament which is really reviewing legislation. This contributes to the strengthening of the democratic rule of law. With the recent reports, that's not a non-binding homework. On the contrary. With a Chamber in which smaller groups have a role, additional vigilance is needed to ensure that Members of Parliament are able to carry out their duties properly, even when it comes to monitoring legislation. This Room should be a safe and good place to work for everyone, including all employees. That is why we would like to hear answers from the candidates on these points. We wish you every success in doing so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you. I call Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council. Today our Chamber elects its new President. The House of Representatives is the highest body in the state. There is no greater honour than being a Member of Parliament and a Member of Parliament. The holding of the Presidency is therefore an important function. This means that the procedure to elect a President of the House of Representatives must also be transparent and pure. That means there can't be room for handcuffs and bullshit. Mrs Bergkamp of D66 only applied after Mrs Kaag and Mr Rutte had spoken in a personal telephone conversation about her candidacy, so Mrs Bergkamp's boss, Mrs Kaag, had to give in to my group chairman yesterday during the debate. Rutte needs to get back into Kaag's good book. And so Kaag called him about it. The mere fact that Mrs Kaag called Mr Rutte about it, shortly after the motion of censure and shortly before Mrs Bergkamp applied, is enough for us to conclude that this case stinks, from here to Ramallah. These are exactly the machinations that undermine our democracy. If you were to end up on the Chair in this way, we in the Chamber should not be surprised if we are faced with a toothless President who humbly bows to the government and the coalition parties in the coming years. The President of the Second Chamber represents our Chamber, directs the work of the Chamber and the Bureau, ensures that the Rules of Procedure are observed and implements the decisions taken by the Chamber. On top of the profile the Chamber has established for this honorable position, one answer to a question from our group is very difficult: is the new President able to give opposition parties sufficient space in this house? Does the President give sufficient space to opinions and sounds that differ from the comfortable middle that center, that collection of many parties here who are doing their best to resemble each other, who talk a lot but actually dare not say much, who prefer to ignore difficult subjects or, if there is no other way, who conduct subjects in politically correct, concealing language into the backrooms of this house? We have seen in recent years that the organisation of counterpower is very important and often lacking for our Chamber. But robustly organised counterpower is essential if we are to carry out our task properly as representatives of the people. Our Chamber needs a President who is on the side of the parliament and who is not on the side of power. That is why our group is of the opinion that the President has a great deal of preference from an opposition party. I would like to ask all three candidates how they will ensure that the opposition, as a counter-force, will not be opposed, but will be given every opportunity for debate and information, and in what other ways they will be working on a strong counter-force. In other words, what proposals and ideas do you have and do you want to implement to strengthen Parliament's position vis-à-vis the government? And what proposals and ideas do you have and do you want to implement to strengthen the citizens' position vis-à-vis the government? In many application procedures a candidate is asked: what are your weak and strong characteristics, and why should we accept you? In this application procedure, I would like to ask all three of you: what are the good and bad qualities of your two counter-candidates, and what arguments could you put forward to vote for them? Mr. Chairman. Finally, this. Allow me to make a special offer to Mr Martin Bosma today. With him as President, the Chamber would elect a great, competent, erudite, eloquent, but also fair President standing above the parties. As Vice-President, he has already demonstrated his qualities. I am convinced, and our group is convinced, that we would have a President with him who would be very proud of everyone and which would make the Chamber more lion than lamb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	There is a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	As many have said, a President-in-Office has three main functions: to lead the debate well, to lead an entire art-making organisation, which is also an art, but of course also to represent us as a Chamber. What if President-in-Office Bosma is in a classroom meeting and Yessin, who has two Islamic parents, asks: may I vote later if it is up to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	We're all MPs here. In the end, we are all representatives of the people and, of course, as MPs, we represent our own denomination, if I may put it that way. But we're all professionals, too. I think that we should choose a President of the Chamber, whoever it becomes, who is not a he or a she, but a "one" sideless, standing above the parties. I know Mr Martin Bosma, because that is what we are talking about, of course, as a professional. I am convinced that if he were to sit there as Vice-President, or later as President, he would be independent, not a PVV President, but just a President of the Chamber of all of us, for all of us and on behalf of the whole of the Netherlands. I don't really see any problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	My question was another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	Well, then I didn't get him right. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	The PVV offers Mr Bosma. Of course, he's part of your group. Then I'll ask the next question to the PVV. What should President-in-Office Bosma say if he is visiting a school on behalf of our Chamber, and Yessin, let's say he's 8 or 10, ask him a question. His parents are Muslim and Yessin asks President of Chamber Bosma: can I vote later? What answer would he have to give?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	I am not here to defend the PVV Group's position on these points. There is a very different debate for that, and we can do that very often. In my opinion, the PVV has nothing against Muslims at all, but there is a problem, in this case the question of whether someone who has a dual nationality can also choose. That's a completely different discussion. The PVV has nothing against Muslims. We have a problem with Islam, but I do not think that is what this debate is about. You ask: what should Mr Bosma answer? You should actually ask Mr Bosma this question, because he is a candidate and not Mr Markuszower of the PVV. But I am sure that every President, especially Mr Bosma, will give the answer that we as a House of Representatives as a whole, including your group, expect from him. That's not a PVV response. That is an answer that fits in with the laws as we now know them in the Netherlands and with what the Chamber expects from the President in its full breadth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	You know what I'd love to hear? I would have liked to hear the honourable Member of the PVV say: President Bosma pulls a hand through that boy's hair, because then hopefully we will be out of the corona measures and say: 'Of course boy, you belong; do your best at school; go play football and when you are 18, you should also vote'. That is what he should say, but the honourable Member of the PVV does not even receive such an answer. If I'd asked that question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	But that is not true, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	Wait a minute. Mrs. Leijten is finishing her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u41	If I had asked what President-in-Office Bosma would answer if Loes of 10 asked him if she could vote later, I think the answer would be quite different. Sure, 'cause Loes gets to vote. And this is exactly the problem. We stood here after the motions of censure and mistrust were tabled, and Mr Wilders, chairman of the PVV Group, rightly said to Mrs Kaag: you will also dismiss the Prime Minister if you table a motion of censure, because it is one person. And that's what Mr Rutte said here: I'm one person. The same applies to the President of the Chamber. On the one hand he says "I exclude 1 million Dutch people from their religion or the religion that their parents have" and on the other hand he is the representative of all of us. Then you can't cut it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u42	Yesterday Mrs Kaag said about my group chairman that he is "champion framer." That is not true, because Mr Wilders had a good point in that debate. But you're framing me now, aren't you? And you do that very well, because you started saying something about voting rights and double nationality and you end up saying something about religion. That is a very different debate. I have not applied to be President of the House of Representatives. A member of our group, Mr Bosma. Our group believes that once someone is President of the House of Representatives there should no longer be any group positions, but the position that the House of Representatives wishes it to be expressed. That would probably be more like the answer you just outlined, but I don't have to give that answer, because I'm not a candidate. I have therefore also said in my reply to your question: you must ask Mr Bosma that question. I am convinced that Mr Bosma, as a professional, is an unsided candidate. The President-in-Office of the Council must, I have just said, be disloyal, stand above the parties and say what the whole Chamber thinks is that such a President-in-Office is supposed to say. That should be answered by one of those presidents at such a meeting at a school against anyone, whether it be Loes or Yessin. You don't have to ask me because I didn't run. If I had applied, I would probably have given a very politically correct answer, but I didn't run. So it doesn't matter what I'd say. You have to ask Mr Bosma that question and I am sure that all three candidates sitting there, but certainly Mr Bosma too, are very professional and that Mr Bosma will be a President of the Chamber to whom everyone in the Netherlands can also be proud of Yessin, Renske Leijten or our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mrs Leijten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u44	You can see that this question is rubbing off on you, can't you? Of course, I will put it to the PVV Group. President-in-Office of the Council Bosma, who is an elected representative of the PVV, may be above the parties, but has been elected by the PVV and will have to give a very different answer to the party's position. Can the PVV wear that? You call it "framing," but I was just looking for your answer. Quite frankly, I find it significant that it was so difficult to give that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u45	That's not hard at all. That's not hard at all. I happen to give everyone in the Netherlands, every schoolboy... That's why I say it's framing, because you put something in my mouth, when I'm not at all, and neither is our group. We give every boy or girl in school a great future in the Netherlands, with the right to vote and whatever. The framing was in the fact that the PVV welcomes every schoolboy and girl herself to a great future in the Netherlands. Only, we disagree about the way you create a pleasant society. But it is true that our party represents 17 seats, almost twice as much as your party. So there are also a lot of Dutch people who would like to make that sound sound sound, and not just what you say. I do not think it is relevant to a President at all to which party he is from, because 17 seats are, of course, entitled to representation. It wouldn't be so crazy if a party that has been the second of the Netherlands for years or becomes the third of the Netherlands would once deliver a President. That's not so crazy in a democracy at all. But that is really not the point, because whoever becomes of these three will have to be above all parties and independent. And all three candidates, especially Mr Bosma, will certainly be able to do a great job, to give every child in the Netherlands the feeling that you want it to be given, namely: you are part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u46	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u47	How large our groups are, indeed, that is up to the electorate. But whoever can represent us as an institution is up to us. I was looking for the answer to the question of whether there is a cut to the PVV's hard points of view, namely that part of our society is not part of it as far as we are concerned, because we think they are a danger. You may think so, and people may vote for it, but it does not do so by the majority. And how is that dealt with? In the last answer, Mr Markuszower says: yes, it makes sense that this sound is also heard once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u48	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u49	Well, not through the President, the SP thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u50	A short response, and then we go to Mr Van Baarle's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u51	The President of the Chamber, whoever it may be, Mrs Leijten, I have said that three or four times now. He must represent the Chamber, as you rightly say. That is also stated in the Rules of Procedure. He must therefore represent you, he must represent me, he must represent every group that sits here and he must be able to represent the Netherlands and Dutch society as it were. I am convinced that all three candidates sitting here, but certainly Mr Bosma too, I would say that Mr Bosma is quite capable of making the cut you indicate. Mr Bosma has been a Member of Parliament for 14, 15 years, and he has been Vice-President for the last eight years or so. He has proven that he can represent the Netherlands in a very venerable way. He did, also on your behalf. He's been at the memorial. That was always partyless. There is no reason to believe that this will be different in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u52	As far as I am concerned, this debate also concerns a piece of credibility and the intention of a candidate. When it comes to intent and credibility, we could also say that, for example, Mr Wilders, who is sitting there, is difficult to make director of an anti-discrimination agency. That's not credible. I would therefore sincerely ask Mr Markuszower whether someone like Mr Bosma, who is often in that profession and engages in positions such as 'closes mosques', speaks about Muslims taking away their rights and also says the most terrible things about people with a migration background, can still be a President of the Chamber of all the Dutch, regardless of origin. How can that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u53	Look, discrimination and so on, there is of course no question of that at all. I am actually very sorry that this is being said to us. It is actually exactly the same question as Mrs Leijten asked. And I think it would be good if Mr Bosma himself answered how he could make that cut. Once again, our group is convinced that this has been very credible in recent years. And I am also convinced that whoever of the three candidates may become, all three candidates will be able to represent all the groups as they sit here, and not speak on behalf of one group. So even if someone from DENK had applied, I would have hoped and I would have assumed that such a candidate, if he had become the President of the Chamber, would represent not only the DENK positions, but all the groups as they sit here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u54	I think that Mr Markuszower is leaving that point of credibility very easily. Because it is quite a track record that that political party has, with categorically excluding people and calling out discriminatory things. And the President of the Chamber is also asked to be the guardian of our parliamentary system, to also demonstrate in a representative manner and in a representative manner what we have as the rule of law: our Constitution, our democracy. How can a person such as Mr Bosma, who is violating Article 1 of our Constitution, be credible in his role as a member of a political party that characterizes this Parliament as a 'fake parliament'? That's impossible, isn't it, Mr. Markuszower?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u55	Well, I think it is very important in any case and that it is also important for new Members of Parliament............................................................................................................................................................................................. So that cut has to be made; one. Secondly, just as state law: if a Member of Parliament, that is to say the legislature, makes a proposal to amend the law, then that is not discrimination or exclusion or non-constitutional action, but that is the core task that such a Member of Parliament should do, namely to deal with laws, to make proposals. So, yes, your story doesn't quite make sense under state law. But that's okay, it's just that it's certainly not relevant in this debate, because we're talking about electing the President of the Chamber, not a lesson in state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u56	Finally, Mr Van Baarle. And then I think we should wait for Mr Bosma's answers, later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. To comment on Mr Markuszower's story and whether this is discrimination or not: if someone advocates closing mosques, that Korans should be banned, that of people of a certain origin should be less there, that is discrimination. That's just discrimination. And you are very easily ignoring the question of whether someone can still be credible President of the Dutch Parliament. As far as DENK is concerned, someone who discriminates cannot do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr Markuszower, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yes. It's a repeat of moves. The PVV does not discriminate at all, and Mr Bosma would be a great candidate, who could represent the whole of the Netherlands, including this Chamber, in a wonderful and venerable way. I think everyone will recognize that in him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u60	There is another question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yes. I will do the question to Mr Bosma myself in a moment, but I think that Mrs Leijten did ask a number of legitimate questions to the PVV group too. In response, Mr Markuszower said: we give every schoolboy a bright future with voting rights. But that is not entirely consistent with the legislative proposal, which was cited earlier, in which people of dual nationality should not have the right to vote and should not be a member of this Chamber, as far as the PVV is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u62	Nevertheless, I would like to give everyone who is here in the Netherlands a chance to participate 100%. There are only a few incompatibilitys, eh, like with a double nationality. I used to have one myself when I was a little boy, so I don't think that's such a problem at all. When I was very little, I quit. And now I don't have it anymore, and I can vote happy. There are a lot of democracies in the world that say: if you have a different nationality, you can do a great job here, but you can't vote or run for office. That's just the way it is. By the way, the Dutch law is all out of order, but also does not want people to have a double nationality; we have only built in a lot of exception categories. So the Dutch law already states: if you accept a new nationality, you want to take on an additional nationality, you lose Dutch nationality and can therefore no longer vote. That's already the law. Only, we have a lot of exceptions. The PVV says: quit with all these exceptions and make sure that the people who are here have one nationality. It is not such a strange, controversial proposal in a democracy. We can pump it all up, but it's actually not that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr Sneller, we are not going to do the legal treatment again, because we are here for the election of the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u64	Sure, but this bill hasn't been dealt with yet. It was tabled by one of the candidate presidents. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u65	The debate today is not the debate to deepen it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u66	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u67	And your point is clear. So if you'd like to ask another follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u68	In any case, it was not clear to Mr Markuszower, who thought that exclusion was out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u69	I understand Mrs Leijten's question, and also the hesitations of DENK. So does the PvdA Group. I would like to give Mr Markuszower the same reasoning he has towards Mr Bosma and Mrs Arib. At what point in recent years has Mrs Arib, in her capacity as President, not done what the Constitution required and what was in the interests of Parliament? What, according to the PVV Group, disqualifies her? Mr Wilders said that because of her double passport we are not voting for Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u70	Let me begin by saying that our group has a great deal of respect for the way in which Mrs Arib has filled out her presidency over the last five years. We have a great deal of respect for her. We think she did a great job. In fact, there is one incompatibility, one formal objection one might say, and that is double nationality. That is our party position. It's in our election program. That's without respect for the person. We have also objected in the past to cabinet members who had another dual nationality. So nothing to the detriment of or anything negative about Mrs Arib, just words of praise and respect for the way she has done it over the past five years. Only, there's that one formal incompatibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u71	It's possible. As a party, you can have the view that as a parliament you do not want to allow dual nationalities. You can file laws for that. There's no majority for that. I am against that for many reasons. But once elected, we are all the same here. Once you have chosen, you have decided whether or not someone is suitable as President of the Chamber. Now you're using it as an argument. You have not mentioned any examples in which Mrs Arib...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u72	In fact, I have nothing but praise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yeah, exactly. And now you're using that as an argument to vote against. That's not right, is it? That's not right, is it? Then you would have to change the law first and get a majority for that rather than disqualify Mrs Arib solely on the basis of her passport?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u74	I didn't rule out anyone in my speech. Mrs Arib has a very different problem in this competition, namely that she is facing Martin Bosma in this match. That is a reason for us not to vote for Mrs Arib in this election, because we have Martin Bosma on offer. That's the only formal... sorry, that's the only objection I've made in my speech. Our election programme may be known. It is well known that in having a dual nationality, whatever nationality and without regard to the individual, we see an incompatibility with the right to stand as a candidate and to stand as a candidate. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's But the big problem for Mrs. Arib in this game is not that objection, but the fact that Mr. Bosma is sitting on her right. That is why we do not vote for Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u75	Thank you. You were at the end of your contribution, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u77	No further questions. I call Mr Sneller of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u78	The election of our President is always a special moment. We choose our figurehead with that. For the President is decisive for our institution, as guardian of the order during our plenary sessions and as representative of the House of Representatives on ceremonial occasions. The President of the Chamber is also leading, internal for the pursuit of our processes and our organisation and external for monitoring our constitutional position. In the coming period, as a representative of the people, we face particular challenges. In addition to the renovation and the relocation, there are also important substantive tasks from the State Committee of Remkes, from the Van der Staaij working group and from two parliamentary committees of inquiry, which call for our serious attention. Last week has also given us a taste of what it means in practical terms to consist of 17 political groups as a Chamber. Our President will have a special responsibility to manage the future. I would therefore like to thank all three colleagues in trade union K for sticking their necks out to deal with this job interview, which I believe is the only one conducted in the third person singularly with us. For our democracy, as has been rightly said before, cannot be without people who dare to do so; I wholeheartedly agree with that. I would like to start with three questions that I put to all the candidates and then I have three questions for each of the candidates separately. Over the past few years, I have seen with sadness how working here has been too much for colleagues from a number of different groups, how they have been burdened by the workload or by the claim that parliamentary membership has placed on their private lives. They therefore fell out temporarily, decided to leave prematurely or decided not to re-enlist. My first question is what the candidates actually intend to do to restore balance and ensure that the House of Representatives becomes a healthier working environment. My second question concerns the promotion of dualism. This has already been mentioned in connection with Mrs Leijten's motion, and this has rightly been added to the profile. An important foundation under that dualism is to improve the information position of the Chamber. I mention letters for a meeting which are late, directors who first inform the media and then the Chamber or budgets which are already in the newspaper while the copies in our possession are still subject to an embargo. What are the candidates going to do to stop these trends? In order to strengthen dualism, we also need support as a parliament that fits in with a strong Chamber. What do the candidates see as their priorities in this respect? Then I come to the individual candidates and this time I do so in alphabetical order. Mrs Arib does not mention a number of things in her letter which I do not want to leave unmentioned. It has taken the initiative to review the Rules of Procedure in its entirety for the first time in 25 years and to make it future-proof. In recent years, the Presidency has also taken significant steps forward in terms of establishing our integrity rules and ensuring that they are monitored and enforced. Personally, I have also always appreciated her support for the activities we organized around Accountability Day, from the breakfast we had for all MPs to the V100 in this room, which she enthusiastically participated in. Much appreciation and thanks for that. Then there are my three questions. In recent times, Mrs Arib has also opposed the move and yet the Chamber has decided to move next summer. My question to her is: why does she think she is the right person to lead that process now? Then there's my second question. In recent years, the initiative to extend the support of the Chamber came from the Chamber, from the group of DENK and later from us. I was surprised at the time that she, as President, did not react very enthusiastically to this and did not fully embrace it and instead reacted rather repellently, in the sense that more support does not mean that Parliament is becoming more effective, as she said. In her letter, Mrs Arib is now pointing out the importance of this good support, but I do miss the conclusion that would make sense to me, namely that it should be extended, especially in the light of the fragmentation of the Chamber that we are seeing today. Why doesn't she draw that conclusion in her letter, I ask her. Finally, I would like to ask her, in connection with the debate last week, exactly how she sees the role of the President of the Chamber during the formation and in particular the first difficult stage in which there has been no debate on the outcome. Then I come to my questions to Mrs Bergkamp. Many people will know her as an involved and passionate MP, but mostly content driven on typical D66 topics. The logical question is therefore: why does she want to let go of it and can she convince us that she can completely detach herself from that content? As a result, unlike the other two candidates, only a few of us will have experienced her as chairman, in a committee or in the plenary. Can it therefore elaborate on what type of President it would like to be? What's her style in that? Mrs Bergkamp positions herself as a kind of connecting leader for this Chamber in her letter, but we all know that it is sometimes necessary to fight. My question to her is: when is she going to fight and can she? Finally, I come to Mr Bosma. Many, including me, have been able to experience him as a humorous and smooth chairman of plenary sessions. But he was also elected to this Chamber on an electoral programme which discriminates and which, as far as I am concerned, runs counter to our Constitution. The PVV election programme prohibits wearing a headscarf in the States General. Mr Bosma himself, I have just tried to clarify it in an interrupting debate, together with Mr Wilders, tabled an initiative law to exclude people who have a different nationality besides the Dutch from the right to vote and to ban them from becoming members of this Chamber at all. And now he says: I recognize myself completely in the profile that says he can be a good representative of all of us. My question to him is: can he explain how he reconciles these two things? Secondly, I would like to come back to a point that was presented to him five years ago during his candidature. This concerns the disqualification of the Lower House as a "fake parliament" by the party chairman of the PVV. In 2016, Mr Bosma explicitly refused to distance himself from this because I quote him "no judgement on statements made by other Members of Parliament'. He called himself "a robot" in that debate. I never saw him do that robot thing again; but well, that was a self-qualification and that's allowed. But in this case, I'm gonna ask him. This was not a statement by any Member of Parliament. This statement was also made on his behalf, at the time as a member of the political group. That is why I ask him: how does Mr Bosma judge today this gross relativisation of the value of our democratic rule of law? Does he still support the designation of the Lower House as "fake parliament"? For my final question to him, I shall return to the substantive task before us, the strengthening of the co-legislative task. As spokesman for the Interior and media policy, I have been able to meet Mr Bosma on a regular basis. I have to say honestly: then I look at his actions, and then I cannot really remember for the last four years that I had the impression that he, as a representative of the European Parliament, as Mr Markuszower rightly said, was the second largest group in this House that took the co-legislative task very seriously. I say this with some regret, and I have told him that in a few debates. The question now, in his role as President-in-Office of the Council, is: can he convince me that he will suddenly find this task as President very important? I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u79	There are questions. First Mr Van Baarle or first Mrs Leijten? Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u80	In any case, I would like to thank you for your sincere plea for binding leadership. You have also spoken about inclusion. That's good for me. However, I have also made the appeal in my speech and, as a group, I would like to say that we believe it is important that a future President of the Chamber should also work more on representativeness, diversity and inclusion in the Chamber. I was wondering whether we could work together with D66 to see you as an ally on this issue and whether you could endorse that appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u81	I can endorse the apple. However, I do not know whether I share the qualification that Mrs Arib has been paying far too little attention to this in recent years under the chairmanship of Mrs Arib. I think that it is a common goal, as Mrs
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u82	At least I'm glad you said that. Of course, I do not want to make what has happened in the past few years small. Only, as far as DENK is concerned, it is important to move forward and do more, by broadening it and ensuring that this organisation becomes even more representative and diverse. At least I'm happy now that I hear D66 supports that apple. That's good for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u84	We all have an important task here. In recent years, there has been a difference between people who are in opposition and those who are in the coalition, including the way in which they are judged and served by our adversary, the ministries. I would like to know how the CDA Group will fill in the new leadership in the coming period in order to eliminate that difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u85	I think you mean the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u86	D66 Group; apologies, Chairman. I believe that the CDA Group, and certainly one of its members, has done fairly well in the previous period. Then let me tell you where it came from. We have often missed support, especially from D66. I know D66 stands for this. Last week I took the initiative, together with Rob Jetten, for the motion on dualism and careful legislation. You have become the second party and you also know that there are all kinds of conversations with the informant about power and counterpower. What has the D66 Group now planned to do in the coming period that idea of "an attack on one is an attack on all"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u87	A number of different things. I've been here for nine years as an employee. At that time we had a group of three Members, so I know very well what it is like to be in a position with a small role and in the opposition. But I also know what it's like to miss support when you're looking for information. I know that from the coalition. So I think Mrs Leijten sometimes thinks a little too much that coalition room members get what they want. I have missed support from both opposition parties and co-coalition parties in recent years. That was on the permanent finance committee, which you're on. I think you'll recognize that. But I think it is a nice idea that you outline, namely that we, as a Chamber, act together more often. I think we've done that a lot. As rapporteur on budgeting and accountability, for example, I have just tried to link up opposition and coalition. But I do not have to tell Mrs Leijten, with whom I have organized some of these things together. It was about standing in front of the cabinet as a chamber. We are looking for a President of the Chamber who can mark this position in this way. That was a plan for the previous period, and that is all the more so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u88	I know Mr Sneller, and certainly other members of the D66 Group, as hard-working MPs, who certainly do a lot in that machine and therefore organize things in the representation of the Chamber. In recent times, we have found, in the interrogation committee, that Members of Parliament are being discussed in the Council of Ministers who are too critical of policy. Then the strategy will be defined on how to deal with it. That was requested by the interrogation committee. That has been answered. Should we not simply say as a Chamber, no matter who will be President or who will be in the government: if we ever get wind that a forthcoming cabinet is discussing MPs in the Council of Ministers, we will draw a line?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u89	And what is to come under the line, Mrs Leijten? I think we all agree that this was intricate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u90	One of the points of pain is that it is about fractions... Let me put it simply: it is about parties that often have groups that say 'we do want to stand in front of Parliament', but which perhaps do not correct the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u91	Let me speak for myself, because I do not know what is being discussed in the Council of Ministers. Then it is sometimes difficult to correct, as you call it. As soon as that was clear, I think we said together: that is not okay. In this respect, I believe that we can work together completely. It's not a question of coalition opposition either, because the MP you're quoting was the coalition. It's a matter of Chamber versus Cabinet or Government. And I think that should also be the dividing line we are looking for much more often. I believe that we have made a joint effort to this end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you. Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A great deal has happened again and we would almost forget that we are at the beginning of a new parliamentary period. This includes the choice of a President. A function that, if possible, has become even more important in the past period than it already was. In this Chamber we have had debates on measures that are deeply affecting people's lives. We're still in the middle of that. The issues are being discussed sharply. That can be very nice, but it can sometimes be very hard. Sometimes it gets too hard and that doesn't always make it nicer. The number of parties has also increased again. A number of my colleagues have already spoken about it. There's no less than 17 of them. This requires even more from the President of our Parliament: a President who leaves room where he can and intervene. Of course, sitting in front isn't the only job. Our President is also the most important external representation of Parliament, both nationally and internationally. The third aspect is the management of the Chamber of Representatives. Over the past period, we have been able to see how important this least visible part of the presidency work is. We have to deal with ever-changing corona rules and their impact on parliament, on our work and on the accessibility of our parliament. We are moving later this year, but we also have to deal with the digitalisation and its consequences and opportunities for our work. In Box K there are three candidates: our current President, who would like to continue her work and two colleagues, who think he is a good successor to her. Congratulations on the fact that they have all made themselves available. I would like to begin by asking all the candidates a few questions about the work in this Chamber. I spoke earlier about the hardening of the debate. That's what we see in society, but also in this house. I would like to hear from all the candidates how they see the tension between freedom of expression and the way in which we interact and debate. Are there limits to the use of words and what we wish each other? If there are limits, what are the consequences of crossing these limits? Another question. What lessons do the candidates draw from the conclusions of the Bosman Committee on the implementation organisations for the work as President of the House of Representatives and for the House of Representatives themselves? What do you want to do with the seven recommendations? The Working Party on the Revision of Rules of Procedure has indicated that more attention should be paid to legislation and debates in general rather than to the delusion of the day. How are you going to take care of this? Another question for the colleagues in box K. They all mention in their letter the importance of power and counterpower. How do the candidates intend to promote this in concrete terms as President of the Chamber? Then I have a number of questions for the specific candidates. I am also doing it alphabetically and starting with our current President, Mrs Arib. In her letter, Mrs Arib mainly looks back on her period as President. Will she be able to look ahead in her term? How does it see the future role of the President of the Chamber? The average term of office of a Member of Parliament is just over six years. In the event of premature departure, members regularly indicate that this has to do with the balance between private and work. What has Mrs Arib done in concrete terms over the past period to improve this balance? The same applies to the information position, which has already been mentioned by a number of others. What is Mrs Arib going to do about it over the next four years to improve it? The corona pandemic has serious consequences not only for our country, but also for our work. Where we asked the Netherlands to work at home as much as possible, we do not seem to use the digital possibilities that exist today. So all members of parliament had to be for the quorum and the vote in the House of Representatives, while the motto was: work as much as possible at home. Why can it be organized differently in the First Chamber, but not here? Finally. How does Mrs Arib look back on her role in the decision-making process surrounding the move? A number of colleagues have already raised this issue. Then there are the questions to Mrs Bergkamp. What does she think should change about the organisation of the Chamber? How is the permanent professionalisation of the organisation achieved? What does she want with the Chamber of Representatives? Mrs Bergkamp says she wants more structure and predictability in the plenary agenda. I believe that the Working Party on the Revision of the Rules of Procedure has also asked for this. What does it want to change in concrete terms? It also states that it wishes to conduct meetings strictly independently and impartially. May I assume that this is broader than just the meeting? The President must decide quickly and clearly. How's Mrs. Bergkamp gonna do this? Does she have an example from the practice of a quick and decisive decision by herself? Finally. Ms Bergkamp indicated that she had extensive experience in human resources. What does she take from that to the office of President? Then there are a number of questions to Mr Bosma. He writes that his main commitment will be the restoration of the Chamber as a counterpower. How does he intend to shape that? And what does Mr Bosma want with the Chamber Organization? He doesn't mention that in his letter. The profile states that the Chamber must be a good representative of the Chamber at home and abroad. How does Mr Bosma intend to implement this, also in the light of statements by the PVV on 'fake parliament', but also at representative moments against which his party is opposed? Mr Bosma's party also opposed the move from Parliament. How, as President, do you intend to take a constructive approach to this? I look forward to the answer. I wish the candidates good luck, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by congratulating colleagues on their candidacy. It is quite a step forward here, in front of your new colleagues, to put you up for election, all the more so because this candidacy has been under a difficult political guise. The cabinet resigned because of the child care allowance and the misery that parents have caused, which also had its basis in the provision of information to the Chamber. The Chamber has been misinformed and incompletely informed for a long time. People got in a lot of trouble because of that. The word'spectacular' does not fit in with the debate, but we have had very special debates these weeks, where confidence in each other and in the formation of a new cabinet has been put under great strain. There is a crisis of confidence in Dutch politics and also between political groups. We are now electing a new President of the Chamber under that stelnte. On behalf of the PvdA Group, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Arib for the presidency of recent years. As a group, we believe that she has done this with authority, humor, sound and decisive. The same applies to the removal of the Chamber, which has already been questioned. If we hadn't performed quite well and decisively there, we'd be back here in a new shopping mall. She's been able to prevent that with others. Mr. Chairman. We expect a number of things from the President-in-Office of the Council. I expect a response from all three candidates. First of all, the meetings are organized, a little cheerful and run with humour. When I heard the previous speakers, I was reminded of the title of a conference by Herman Finkers: Calm down and rap a bit. We now have 17 political groups, where everyone deserves the floor and we must also be able to express their position. At the same time, we do not want these meetings to end for a very long time and to end in some sort of Polish country day. I do not know how many questions the political groups will ask the Cabinet, the Ministers and the Secretary of State. That's perfectly right. At the same time, we do not want them to become endless in their answers and we do want to get an answer to the question. That is a difficult aspect, which is quite underestimated. How are the candidates going to shape that? Mr. Chairman. The second important point is to be representative of our democracy. Like the Chamber of Representatives, that's no wonder after the elections, too. Society is polarized. Groups are opposed to each other and democracy is under quite a lot of pressure. The President of the Chamber plays a crucial role in representing the Chamber. How are these candidates going to shape and implement this? The third essential point is the following. I no longer use the terms "power" and "counterpower." I thought it sounded nice in itself, but Mrs Leijten had a very valid point: we are the power, not the counterpower. So I don't use it anymore. But it's about the Chamber's information position. It's really under pressure on all levels. If you ask parliamentary questions, they should be answered within three weeks, but a delay note is more rule than exception. When there are finally answers after that delay, they are often the standard "with a lump in the reed" answers. You actually have to ask a second set of questions, if you want to get a start of an answer at all. That doesn't look right. My group believes that the new President of the Chamber should take action against this. There are different methods for this. You can allow questions for oral Question Time at any time. That's the kind of thing rulers don't usually like. That usually helps. But it really needs to end. This also applies to the information that is not provided, although it is often requested by Chambers. That really is not always just between opposition and coalition. That information is not coming, it is too late, it is incomplete. That must be restored. That is why we wholeheartedly supported the motion of last week, which was initiated by Mrs Leijten and Mr Jetten. It also applies to the co-legislative role of the Chamber. The Tax Plan has been mentioned for a while. That's a thorn in our eye. That's a package of paper that doesn't come through. This is under high pressure and has an impact on people's lives. Mistakes are made. That needs to be designed differently. I myself once tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, which must be distributed over the year. It's been neatly accepted, but it's not gonna hit you. It has to be. Mr. Chairman. Also important is the move and how it will take shape. We're all moving out later. That was decided by a majority. That's what needs to be done. I hope that after five and a half years we will come back here as well. We'll have to see that, too. In the meantime, however, democracy must continue to function. That's really important. I would ask the President-in-Office of the Council to respond accordingly. How do they ensure that our Parliament will continue to operate even during the move, including in terms of ICT, which is going to be quite a tour? The last but certainly not least point is the functioning of the organisation. People have to work here nicely and with pleasure, because they do great work for us. Mrs Leijten did not wrongly call that "the engine room." There are also important principles that the PvdA Group would like, namely that we should be a diverse organisation, that people should be able to go somewhere if they do not feel safe once in every major organisation, and that there are sufficient internships for all training courses, even if they cannot be found elsewhere. I believe that the President of the Chamber has a role to play in this. I'm asking the candidates to reflect on that. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on my third block. It's a little heavy on my stomach, but I think that should be discussed here. We all elect the President individually as 150 Members of this Chamber. I have six points to make. First of all, the article on the RTL news site at the end of February. In that, the current President is cowardly, no one mentions his name "" by several people burned to the ground, broken down by the legs." That's not just cowardly, there's always an agenda behind it. There are interests behind that, and it's not right. That is what I want to say here in this debate. Mr. Chairman. The second is that yesterday I read in De Telegraaf that there has been talk of getting rid of this President between coalition parties, namely D66, VVD and CDA. Journalists don't just write that down. I've been in The Hague long enough to know that there's enough ground to write something like that down. And that's not right either. Thirdly, last week we noted that the scouts also raised the position of President of the Chamber during the exploratory talks. Everyone said it was a disgrace, but it did happen. Mrs Jorritsma has also suggested that the CDA leader, Wopke Hoekstra, should perhaps be President of the Chamber. We could just read that in those notes. That's no good either. Mrs. Ollongren sat there as a scout and had no memory of it anymore. But at least when that happened, she did not say: I am the Minister of the Interior and I stand for democracy; this is unacceptable. Mr President, fourthly. Yesterday in the debate, after Mr Wilders interrupted, Mrs Kaag said: yes, I called Mr Rutte on that. After that, we were able to see a picture of a wink. The question is whether this is appropriate. And fifth. In reply, Mrs Kaag said: on behalf of the D66 Group, perhaps we would like to give someone a chance. We are thinking of running Mrs Bergkamp. But it is good practice here, at least, if it is good that people can manage themselves because they want to be President of the Chamber on behalf of all of us. This is a good tradition, which Mr Weisglas used in 2002. It is, moreover, a special coincidence that this was then against Mrs Jorritsma, who at the time was the candidate of the VVD Group. That's when he won. That is an individual candidacy; that is not what groups are about at all. Moreover, our current President also applied at the time, while there were other candidates in her own group. We are all equal, but some... "Higher and lower" I wanted to say, but I don't think that's the term that fits. But at least she did not receive any support from some in the group at the time, but she eventually did. That's a very good tradition, Mr. Chairman. So I didn't like that. That's what I want to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u96	I thought you would come to point 6 and then I will give Mrs Kuik the floor. But then I shall give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u97	It bothers me a bit what Mr Nijboer is saying here because he is suggesting something that is not true. It might also say more about how the PvdA itself thinks than about how it really is. The CDA just has the free choice. I am surprised that Mr Nijboer is suggesting that we have already decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u98	I call on you not to do that, I am now at point 5; point 6 is still on the table, but I note that there are sufficient indications. I do not believe that journalists have simply invented that there has been consultation between these groups in order to get rid of Mrs Arib. I saw that piece of RTL. The dogs don't like bread from that. That doesn't come from one person or from a random passerby. Those are people who have an interest in this, and they are not going to say it by name. But I'll say it here in the Chamber. You can interrupt me on that. If the CDA says 'we have not made any agreements and we choose the best President', I welcome that. I would also like to believe that, but I would like to point out that it has not played that way in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u99	I am reacting strongly here because Mr Nijboer, without any evidence, makes a suggestion that is simply not true. That is not good, nor is it good for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u100	I'm not suggesting anything. All the things I have mentioned, I will get to point 6 in a moment; that is not the most exciting point, but it is relevant to be true. It has been mentioned in the formation by Mrs Jorritsma; that is simply true. It has been lied about; we have had a debate on it. That piece of RTL wasn't made up by those journalists. I don't believe that. I find it cowardly to place such a piece without mentioning names and without mentioning what the interests of other parties may be, namely to become the President or to deliver the President himself. Those interests are behind that, but they didn't come back to that at all. I think it's a bad piece. But that's what they said, isn't it? That's not right, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mr Nijboer can now make other points, but my point was that Mr Nijboer refers to my group and pretends that something has already been decided, when that is not true. He says here that it is true and he mentions other points and he does not go into the point I am making, but I would like to hear from Mr Nijboer that that is not true. I would like to hear him say: sorry, that is not true; I raise a suggestion here and that is not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u102	What I'm not taking back is that I do believe it as a renowned journalist of De Telegraaf "Wouter de Winther" wrote it yesterday in his column "Wouter de Winther" writes that in recent weeks there have been contacts between CDA, D66 and VVD to get rid of the President. I believe that is true, and I blame you for that. That does not mean that the new elected group, which you are also part of, could not decide freely, because it was not even there at the time. I welcome that, and that is what you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mrs. Leijten. We're just waiting on point six.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u104	With excitement, Mr President, because all the points Mr Nijboer raises are always relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u105	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u106	Whispering campaigns are very damaging because you cannot defend yourself against them and because you cannot see the interests behind them if something is not reported by name and by name. What I also find very serious is that RTL's piece on the current President of the Chamber, or the previous President of the Chamber, for example, also mentions High Colleges of State, such as the General Court, which I am very high up, and the Council of State, which I have a somewhat more shaky relationship with. So there are also people who do talk to the media, but who do not say: here I am; I stand for my words. However, I would like to point out to Mr Nijboer that the PvdA is also mentioned in that document as a source warning against Arib. So I think it is right for you to point this out, but I found that very painful. I found it very painful that there were also staff and fellow chamber members from the Labour Party who pointed out that it would be a danger. If you call for no more whispering campaigns, which I agree with, and if we say to journalists 'bring this news by name, because then we can follow those interests', then I would like to make the same appeal to the Labour Party. Because it seems to be a deliberate or unwitting party to the vote, which creates an article that is very damaging because no one knows who is saying what and which interests are playing, as Mr Nijboer rightly said, and so you are only dealing with a massive character murder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u107	In my opinion, there were no PvdA chamber members or people working in the PvdA group cited, but former PvdA room members. We've got a lot of them. Several groups have to do with this. Or they were formerly involved in the PvdA. I don't approve of that as much as you do. But that is different from the current group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u108	There's one more question. Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u109	It may not even be so much a question, but Mr Nijboer accuses a number of parties here. I would like to make it clear that the VVD Group is also free to choose. On the basis of this debate, they will determine their preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u110	Very good. That would be a very nice conclusion. The sixth point is actually something that I like and which the PvdA Group welcomes, but which does not have to be irrelevant. That is because former executives are again in the Chamber. We are talking all the time about power and counterpower and the relationship between rulers and the Chamber. A good President of the Chamber occasionally fights with rulers. Of course, this can also play a role in voting behaviour or in the atmosphere. That doesn't have to be the case with everyone, but I think it's a relevant notion to note. So I would say: if there is someone in a group who totally hates the current President, that could be a recommendation rather than a'recommendation'. Mr. Chairman. I hope that we will all elect the very best President of Parliament for the coming years. I have faith in that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u111	Thank you. I call Mr Bishop of the SGP. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mr President. It's always a bit of a strange figure, a public interview. There are three applicants at the same time for the application committee. First the questions are fired. After that, the applicants may once again give their reflections on this. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the candidates for their willingness to take up this honorable office. But I think that sometimes it is an ungrateful office, given the buttons that need to be cut once in a while. When I read through the three applications, I notice that all three candidates are talking about strengthening the position of the elected parliament. One calls it mainly in relation to Article 68 of the Constitution, the other formulates it differently. If I look at the three candidates in alphabetical order, I will say the following to Mrs Arib. Wait a minute. You've been the President of the Chamber for the past few years. That position was already bad; we also found that in the previous application procedure. But that position has not improved in the past period. How can we then trust that in the coming period, thanks to you, if you become President, that position will improve? I read from Mrs Bergkamp about an approach to personnel policy and strengthening support services. Yeah, but those kind of instruments are already in place. That's already been used. What difference will it make in the future? I would like a reflection on that. I read from Mr Bosma an eloquent, flashy plea about the disasters and the calamities that have hit the Chamber in that respect. I also read things in the direction of strengthening the position of the Chamber. Okay, I totally agree with that, but how does Mr Bosma see it in practice? I would also like to draw attention to both the position of the President and the position of the Chamber in this process in the reflections of all three. The position of coalition and opposition could also be involved, as far as I am concerned. Let me turn to the point of order. We've been working with a new Rules of Procedure for a few days. We have noted that the plenary agenda is in danger of being overloaded again. We could see that only yesterday when we were regulating work. Fortunately, yesterday we also discussed the fact that we have now made the position of the committees more explicit. So put this to a committee, is the thought. That could be a good way, but still a few questions. What does an ideal plenary agenda look like in the experience of each of the candidates? And that also in relation to the committee meetings. I realize that if you make an agenda for the next week, you know one thing for sure: this is not the agenda for the next week. At least that always happens to me. But I would like to hear the reflections on what is ideally the picture. And, quite specifically, what measures are you going to take to achieve that ideal picture? Perhaps I could put the question another way: how do you ensure that we stay a little away from the delusion of the day? An article appears in a newspaper or on a site and hop, we are at the interrupt microphone, "because there must be a debate about it." That requires some self-discipline from the Chamber. Also a puppy needs to be pressured and trained. I don't want to compare the room with a puppy, but well, someone else did it with a lamb and someone else with a lion, so I just stay in style. A President can play an important role in this, also with the help of a more vital, stronger Rules of Procedure. Perhaps that will allow the President to lead in this. The President is therefore not following, but leading, without being intrusive and steering or biased. Mr. Chairman. These are my questions that I would like to put to the candidates. I look forward to well-considered reflections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you. Mr Eerdmans, of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Patience, I think, is also an important condition for the new President. You will be reminded of that, because you three will be tested well before you can speak. But this is the case: then you may give answers, after our input. JA21 thanks the three colleagues for their candidacy and wishes them every success. Mr. Chairman. I also called my group colleagues and asked them what we are going to do. We vote individually for the best candidate, to the best of our consciences. And that's how it's supposed to be, I hear the chairman say. That's the way it is. Every man for himself. Last week and yesterday we discussed in detail in this Chamber the political culture, the importance of power and counterpower. That is precisely why this election is important. We are concerned that we, Members of Parliament, should choose the best candidate for the Presidency. The only criterion that applies to us is quality. That's the point. Who is best able to control power as a Lower House, as a parliament? This includes quality k and as little political as possible. That goes for two sides. The Chamber should not elect a President on the basis of political games, and the President himself should be as neutral as possible, so that you do not really know what the President's political background is. No candidate should be favoured or disadvantaged because of his or her political colour. And unfortunately, much more often the opposite happened and elections like this were eventually besieged in the back rooms in advance. That could be his party background, that could be in each other's debt, that could be "if you do this, you'll get it in return." That's not how it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman. The three members of the JA21 group will therefore vote for the candidate they consider best and not because the party of this candidate has their preference. I have a few supplementary questions to ask the other. First to Mrs. Arib. You've been President of the Chamber for over five years. As far as we are concerned, you are doing an excellent job. But where experience is often a pre, there is a risk of becoming part of the room furniture. Yes, I see you looking strange, but this happens to the best. What are you gonna do with that? What else are you gonna do? What are your learning moments for the past five years? The second. RTL News has already been mentioned by Mr Nijboer. Very annoying, that anonymous criticism from various sides. How do you deal with that? Can you take us in a little bit? How do you deal with such a thing? Is that going to be under your skin? How do you deal with things like that, actually, is the question. Then Mrs. Bergkamp. You put the dignity of the debate at the heart of your letter. Can you explain a little more about what you mean by that? What is that really, dignity as a subjective concept, and what consequences does this have for the freedom of Members of Parliament to express their opinion? There's some kind of tension in there, it seems. In your letter, which is quite similar to Mrs Arib's, you raise a number of issues. Sometimes you have the same solution to problems. What is the difference between you and Mrs Arib? Why are you a better President of the Chamber than Mrs. Arib? Finally. Last but not least, Mr Bosma. You are a more than excellent Vice-President, with a great deal of experience. That's what friend and enemy agree on. When you were a candidate in 2016, support for you was almost limited to your own colleagues. That is, of course, because of your party background. This was also the subject of the interrupting debate with Mr Van Baarle. How do you feel about that? We think it is a bad thing that the party is being so clearly looked at. In other parties, this is not at all said at all, but at the PVV it is an absolute blockade for a very good President. We find that strange. We do have the idea that the proportions at that point are now a little more relaxed than in 2016. Is that how you see it? Second. In your letter you mention the crumbling influence and relevance of the Chamber and the erosion of information law. That is also something you are drawing hard conclusions about. Can you provide a number of concrete solutions to this? Mr. Chairman. The last question to Mr Bosma is the following. The most important task for Mr Bosma, he himself says, is to restore the Chamber as a counterpower. Do you not blame the whole idea of debilitating power on the Bureau or on the Presidency of the last few years? Is that a reproach? And would you do that differently? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you. Mr Dassen van Volt has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the candidates for making themselves available. Brexit was the trigger for the creation of Volt. Separation from the EU has a major impact on the United Kingdom. That didn't happen overnight. It was partly because the parliament did not check the government year in, year out, day in, day out, and because the government did not have the decency to properly explain the importance of European cooperation. With the crisis of confidence, parliamentary democracy is also under pressure here in the Netherlands, partly because of the minimal support given to Members of Parliament, while directors have entire departments at their disposal. How can the control function be performed properly? And then we haven't talked about the fact that it has become a kind of sport that when information reaches the Chamber, it is offered at the last minute and the marker is frequently used. "Blackened" is a new concept that we know well here in the Chamber. The controlling function is also undermined by the attitude in the Chamber itself. For example, the Chamber showed that the government agreement can be binding and binding. Members of parliament of the governing parties vote only in line with their party, which also undermines the dualistic character of the Chamber itself. That is why our questions to the candidates, who are mainly concerned with this view, also with regard to the crisis of confidence that is currently taking place. What are you going to do to increase support for MPs and to ensure that information is delivered on time and not black-painted? What is your view when it comes to the duty to inform the Chamber properly? It is clear that we want to move towards a new, more open, transparent and inclusive governance culture. In recent years, if I may say so, you have been all part of the Bureau. Then why didn't it work out sooner? And what exactly are you going to do to break this old governance culture? How do the candidates view their task when it comes to restoring the confidence of voters in this Parliament and its representatives? What are you going to do to ensure that Members of Parliament practice dualism, not only on paper, but also in practice, and act accordingly? And what would your advice be to the MPs who are tied to a coalition agreement? What are you going to do to safeguard the balance between power and counterpower? And specifically to Mr Bosma: how can you treat the Chamber and Members of Parliament well and independently while you are a member of a party that explicitly treats some Dutch people and thus some members of the Chamber as second-class citizens? For Volt, this is actually unacceptable. It is also contrary to Article 1 of our Constitution. Volt cannot therefore accept your candidacy for that reason. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you. I call Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you. I would like to start by wishing all candidates very much success and also strength, because it must be quite an exciting day. Well, at least I hope so. I would like to begin by saying that I am a little disturbed by the fact that there is a lot of discussion here about parties and the fact that a party has a certain position and therefore the President of the Chamber cannot deliver. In 1996 note de SP proposed that candidates for the Presidency should be elected on the basis of quality rather than party political views. I'd like to remind you of that. It is exactly 25 years since that was agreed by the Socialist Party, Mr Jan Marijnissen. I'd like to give that to the officers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u119	I imagine Mrs Leijten would like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u120	My question, of course, was not about the quality of Mr Bosma. My question was: what should President Bosma say as a representative of all of us to that little boy? There was no answer to that. Look, if my colleague Markuszower had said, "Of course, hand through the hair, you belong to it, boy," it would have been done. Mr Markuszower was in his groove and could not imagine that his President could do so. That was my question, and I will simply put it to Mr Bosma in a moment. In my term, I talked about the qualities and the things that we consider important. You didn't hear me call a party line there. In fact, I've been talking about opposition and coalition. You didn't ask me a question either. You don't have to. I have not excluded anyone yet, but I have just asked about excluding 1 million people from the PVV party: how should the President deal with this? It was very difficult for Mr Markuszower to answer that question. What Mr Marijnissen said 25 years ago, we fully support it, but I was just looking at how a party deals with firm positions with a President who should actually distance himself from them. That's what I was looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u121	I have a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u122	I would like Mrs van der Plas to respond briefly, and I suggest that you make your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u123	I don't have to defend the PVV here. I would just remind you that in 1996 Mr Jan Marijnissen of the Socialist Party brought here to the Chamber that Presidents are judged on their quality and not on their party. Then things are said about the PVV, but things are also said about D66. The only thing I want to say is that this is going to play a part in the consideration, because that is at least what we are doing. We look at the quality and not at the party, absolutely not. That's all I wanted to give you. It wasn't against you personally, either. There have been several people here who have talked about the party and about party positions. For my part, but well, I am not Mr Bosma's answer to that. All I want to do is start thinking about that when we vote later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u124	You said that the SP is ruling out people here in the debate. I didn't. I have put a serious question to the party that Mr Bosma is a member of, which has a firm position that does not come from a single society. We do the same in other debates. If Mrs Van der Plas had wondered whether we were excluding a party and on what grounds, she should have asked that question in my term. But now say "Jan Marijnissen said something very wise 25 years ago, and that is not in line with what was said today by the SP." He said a lot of wise things. I actually find that a bit presumptuous, because that was exactly what I didn't do. I was looking for what room Mr Bosma has for doing something independently. That space was given to him after six questions maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u125	Clear, we will continue to Mr Markuszower, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u126	I have not often made a personal statement in this house, but now I have to do so in relation to Mrs Leijten. I call the words "dirty" and "girl." You lie about me, Mrs. Leijten, and you frame me in a very filthy way. That does not fit you, that does not fit your party, and that does not fit this house, and that does not belong in this debate. I did not say that children who grow up in the Netherlands have no future. I hope that every child gets a piece of cake from the President of the Chamber, whoever that is. I mentioned in my answer to your question about... you are not even listening to the answer. You're so stuck in your own prepared interruption. You repeat it here. You're so stuck in that. We see a problem with a double nationality. We consider that to be a formal incompatibility...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u127	We are not going to do this debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u128	...with the active and passive right to vote. That's it. I have said that every President, whoever he is, should simply do what follows from a country's laws and regulations. I came out just fine. What you just put in my mouth, I didn't say. I didn't say that. You're lying about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr. Maskuszower...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u130	You're sketching a false picture of me. Unacceptable! It also takes away the great candidacy of our Martin Bosma. That doesn't fit you, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u131	If there's anyone here who's gonna take away Mr. Bosma's great candidacy... he's definitely gonna get ahead of himself. He can coat things through it, too. But what exactly is the lie? I explained to Mrs Van der Plas...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u132	No, no, we're going to ask more questions, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr President, I explained to Mrs van der Plas where my question came from. I expected another answer to that, which apparently was very difficult. What's a lie about that? I think this is really easy. You can say someone's lying, but this is just going public. People need to look it back. Where's that lie?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mrs Leijten, we have had this debate. I'll tell you both, and Mr. Bosma's over there. By the way, I see that the third candidate is no longer in box K. Something's going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u135	That's already a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u136	I would like to continue with Mrs van der Plas' contribution. We're almost at the end of your input. And then we're gonna listen to the answers of the three candidates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u137	Well, Mr. Chairman, what I say and what I think may be disgusting. But when someone says I'm lying, I actually think that someone like that should point out where that's a lie. I explained to Mrs. Van der Plas... you can yell through it, Mr. Markuszower, no problem at all. I'm gonna go check on the Acts. I would also advise Mr Markuszower to do so. If you say "there is a lie," tell me what the lie is, otherwise it will become very empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mrs. Van der Plas, would you have started the same way if you had known what you were going to untie?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u139	Well, I just wanted to remind you of something, but apparently that's a lot of emotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u140	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u141	Yes. I'm not past my time, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u142	No, definitely not. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u143	Good. We are a little surprised at the way people deal with each other in the Chamber. Look, it's okay to be sharp, but we've noticed that here sometimes a certain dedain descends on people. We have the idea that a little bit of stabbing is being given under water. Answers get sniffed out. We get a bit of the feeling that one feels elevated above the other. Well, I've actually seen that a few times in the last week. I wonder how the new President-in-Office will deal with this later. If there are people here who are asking questions and expect an answer to them, then it is not exactly neat to give them some kind of underwater stitch, so to speak of "yes, you could have known that" or "as you could have seen,..." or "I will simply answer the question." That's kind of like bullying behavior. I should therefore like to ask the Presidents of the Chamber how they deal with this bullying behaviour. I'm also curious about the following. There have indeed been new parties and new MPs. We've been thrown into the deep end, literally, because I don't think one MP has ever started like us, in such a huge circus where all kinds of acts were performed. We have not had time in the first few weeks to work very well. We are doing our best, but I am going over time, someone else may be asking the wrong question or not speaking to the President; I wonder how the new President of the Chamber is dealing with the new people. This week I myself noticed a few times that I was only supposed to know everything. Well, we're new and I don't know everything. And yes sorry, I sometimes go over time; I don't do that on purpose. But for the newcomers in this Chamber, which are 69 in total, I would like to know: how will the new President deal with the new people, how will they be supervised? Well, the last time I looked... Everyone has to learn everything. If you take driving lessons, you don't have your driver's license the next day either. And when you're born, you don't walk the next day either. It takes time, and it needs guidance. And that guidance, that's what I'm looking for. I also wonder about the independence of the new President of the Chamber: how will it be secured? I have also seen this, and perhaps I misunderstand that sometimes there is a certain body language or is looked at in a certain way. One questioner is not, the other one is. In my opinion, a President should simply be very independent and in no way, so not with a glance or with drums with fingers... He must respond very independently to every Member of Parliament. I am also curious to see how the future President of the Chamber will do that. 'Cause I also understand that it's kind of hard. I mean, everyone's human. This question has already been asked, but I ask him again: how are you going to balance that power and counterpower? In fact, we would like to have a concrete proposal or a concrete answer. How is the new President of the Chamber going to ensure that those answers are given in the answer by ministers, or at least by someone who has to answer them? In that short time, the two weeks I've been sitting here, I've heard a lot of talk, but very often no concrete answers. I think it is up to the President-in-Office to point out to the members of the cabinet that they are simply replying tightly, and that they really are answering the questions clearly. We also saw how Pieter Ommzigt was treated. Personally, I do not believe that there was or is a safe working environment here. I would like to know from the Presidents of the Chamber: how are you going to ensure that everyone in this Chamber, but also throughout the organisation, is in a safe working environment? What is the new President of the Chamber going to do to restore confidence between citizens and government? We have seen that this breach of confidence has been there for a long time and has been slumbering for a long time, also on various subjects. I think it is important that one President should take the lead, including towards the other Members of Parliament, in order to really restore that confidence. I am curious about concrete actions or a concrete plan for them. What is the new President of the Chamber going to do about the structural exclusion of parties in advance? I think that is also an important point. We also mentioned it to the explorers at the time: we do not think it is a good look to society, because you give the signal that you are allowed to rule out, while we want an inclusive society. I think it is up to the President-in-Office of the Council, who plays an important role in drawing parties' attention to this. Look, if you think "I'm gonna rule them out" -- think it's okay, but radiate it and put it in the media -- it's just a really bad signal from this Chamber towards society. Finally, a personal question. I would like to know from all three Presidents of the Chamber what their strongest point is, so that they can persuade me to vote for one of them. But I would also like to know the weakest point from the Presidents of the Chamber. What would be the point where my vote could not go to you, and what will you do to convince me to vote for you? Well, you will notice: I am not yet out of it myself, but that last question in particular can be decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u144	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Simons from BET1 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You'll just see that I'm having technical problems and so I'm just standing here with a piece of paper. I know... you'll just see. Mr. Chairman. Democracy is based on the principle of equality. Only when everyone hears his voice in an equal way can we say that it works. This requires a President of the Chamber who takes the principle of equality and justice into account in all statements and decisions, a President who guarantees that requested information arrives on time, that it is accurate, that motions adopted are carried out and that every Member of Parliament is able to carry out the audit properly. This room is, as my observation, very often, too often, offended. The position of the Chamber is at stake, because MPs are parked by rulers. In the supplement scandal, information was repeatedly withheld from the Chamber. Directors think themselves untouchable: "No one is going to explain this." That statement shows exactly where it goes wrong. The controlling function of the Chamber is under pressure. One question I have to ask the President-designate is a question you hope you never have to ask, but in the light of what I have just said, I say: you never know these days. How much influence will the composition of the government have on the functioning of these candidates as President? And also: how are the candidates going to improve the information position of the Chamber? What are they going to do to ensure that the Chamber can regain control of the cabinet, so that directors do not get away with the most absurd things and statements over and over again? In this light, Mr Van Baarle asked a number of very legitimate questions about diversity and inclusiveness. I will not repeat them for the sake of my time, but I would like to emphasise that I am very curious about the answers to those questions. Building on that one more question. How are we going to translate the work we do here, the chamber work, into society? It is as if you walk in here and walk into a completely different vacuum, which has little to do with the reality of everyday life, which for so many Dutch people is daily reality. A lot of people are far from politics. In many communities, too many communities, but especially those of people of colour, people with disabilities, refugees and so many other groups that have become marginalized, it is not felt that what is happening here in this house is also about them. How is the future President of the Chamber going to make people at home understand what is meant here, that they feel that it is affecting them and that it is about them, and that they feel involved? Finally. For the form that may be clear, the voice of BET1 is absolutely not going to Mr Bosma. The functioning of democracy is too important to leave to someone who systematically discriminates, especially Muslims, wants to undermine human rights and distributes anti-Jewish conspiracies. BEYOND (S). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u146	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Court's first term contribution. I suspend for an hour so that the three candidates can prepare their response and we can eat a sandwich. So we'll meet again at 1:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u147	Before the candidates respond, I shall draw lots to determine the order in which they will do so. I had suspended until 1:55 p.m., Mr. Van Haga, and was a little late myself, so welcome. First of all, I am drawing Mrs Bergkamp. You may begin. Then Mr Bosma follows, and then there is no surprise, Mrs Arib. I would like to give Mrs Bergkamp the floor for her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u148	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank all my colleagues for their input. I would also like to thank my fellow candidates for sitting here today, so that there is something to choose. Many questions have been asked. This shows a great deal of commitment and also ideas on how Parliament, the House of Representatives, can function better. I will do my best to answer the questions as well as possible and to convince you of my motivation and ability to be your President. I thought Mr Cedar of the Christian Union said it very nicely: to be a partner of democracy. Mr. Chairman. I have some cubes, because there have been a lot of questions asked. First, I deal with my motivation, then with the position of the Chamber, with dualism, then with the composition of the Chamber, in particular with the questions about the small parties, the organisation of the Chamber, the move, the official organisation and a number of other questions. Mr. Chairman. First of all, my motivation. Why Vera Bergkamp? Some questions have been asked about that. As I indicated in my letter, the House of Representatives faces many challenges. We live in a time of covid, which, of course, has a huge effect on our lives and jobs. We are moving, we are made up of 17 parties and we have lessons to learn, including when we look at the premium affair, but also when we look at the report on the implementation organisations. It is precisely at this time that I am running as your President. Let me explain that to you. I've been in the Chamber since September 2012. Of course I have been a Member of Parliament, but I have also done a lot of cross-party aspects of the Chamber work. Think of participating in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Fyra, member of the Bureau and political secretary. I've also been able to do a lot of own-initiative laws. Prior to my membership of the House of Representatives, I did several management management functions, and also did a lot of things in the field of human resource, i.e. personnel policy. I was chairman of the COC and director of the SVB. I would like to use my knowledge and experience as your President of the Chamber. I think, for example, when it comes to the relocation, that my experience comes in handy from the operations. But also when it comes to strengthening the administrative organisation, I can lean on and rely on my experience in the field of personnel policy. To get to know me a little more broadly: about my personality I also indicated in my letter that I am a connecting leader. Now I know a lot of people say that, but I think the people who know me will see that too. I work in the Chamber with a lot of different parties. I also like to do things together and to emphasize what connects people instead of what divides people. I think that in a Chamber with 17 parties, a restless environment, that is an advantage. Other than that, I'm tenacious. I am not a lamb; I may not be a lion either, although my daughter always says that my hair sometimes looks a bit like a lion. I think I'm something in between, but I'm persistent. I think I have shown this on several occasions in your Chamber, for example when we look at Mr Johan van Laarhoven's situation, which I have been working on for years to get more information about. That connection, as well as that persistence, I would like to use to strengthen the position of the Chamber, which is what all the parties have actually said. Some questions have also been asked about what makes me better or perhaps less of my colleagues. I'm not gonna answer that question. That is what I find typical of the House of Representatives to make that comparison and to have an opinion on it. We're different people; we sent a letter. You have a chance to ask questions. I will answer that as well as possible, but that comparison and that choice are ultimately up to you. Mr. Chairman. Some questions have also been asked about how I would fill in the Presidency. I want to do this impartially and independently. I think it's very important when you hold that office that your party politics are color-blind. It shouldn't matter whether you're from the opposition or the coalition. I think that when it comes to the House's information position, we all have discovered that you can and must be in the coalition to get that information, but also from the opposition. As President, you are impartial and independent. I would like to add that I really am a team player. If we look at the challenge we face, I would look forward to sharing several tasks with each other, including within the Bureau. As far as cooperation with the Registrar is concerned, when it comes to strengthening the administrative organisation, I do not think it would be good if I were always sitting in that chair there. I think we really need to divide up the tasks. There are many challenges. I also think the power is a sum of us together. Mr. Chairman. Then a question has also been asked about my experience as President. Well, I don't think I'm ticking the hundred times, like maybe my colleagues. Plenair, of course, I have presided over a number of debates, including with committees, so I know how to chair the Chamber, but I will, of course, have to deal with them, like all the new Presidents. I think that all the Presidents need some time to do so. But before I entered the Chamber, I also presided over a lot of things in all my roles. Different management teams, management teams, all kinds of different teams. When I was president of the COC, I had my own team. So I've done a lot of chairing. I'll just say this as Bergkamp says that this is of course the Champions League, and that's the way it should be. It is an honorable office and it must be done properly. I am, of course, prepared to go as far as I can. Mr. Chairman. Then the second block, the position of the Chamber. I would like to dwell on this a little longer, from dualism, on which a lot of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u149	I think there's a question about the first part. Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u150	About the person Bergkamp, indeed. Mrs Bergkamp specifically refers to "connecting" and "working together." That can be polders for a very long time and not make a decision. I specifically asked: what is an example of a quick and decisive decision taken by Mrs Bergkamp recently? I think that a President should just do that once in a while: put his fist on the table and then continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u151	Sure. I will come to that later, by the way, when it comes to how you deal with 17 parties and how you deal with being President in this constellation. It is indeed a question that my colleague from the VVD has asked. I believe that I have all completed the meetings that I have held within the time available. I think it is very important to monitor the start and end times, but I also think it is important to have some more process direction at the meetings. Especially given the fact that the Chamber is composed of 17 parties, we need to do this a little more. Let me give you an example of a concrete decision. I am Spokesman for Health and have worked with colleagues to ensure that a report on medical specialists in paid employment is ready in time. I have taken the decision, in cooperation with colleagues, and I have sent the report to be dealt with shortly at the procedural meeting. That is one of the examples. Soon I will say a little more about my style of leadership and being President. Then the strengthening of dualism. I liked what Mrs Leijten said: who is power and opposition? I think she said this right. We are the elected representatives. She also asked: what is a representative of the people? Well, that means we're the voice of the people. Of course we do that for all Dutch, but of course we all have our own supporters. That's obvious, too. No one votes for one Member of Parliament; that divides. But we are the voice of the people. I think it is important that more support should be given to the groups on the basis of motions and amendments that have been adopted. I think that's a win. I think that is good, including for the small groups. But there's more to that. We have invested in the groups themselves, but we should also invest in the administrative organisation. That is why I would suggest that the capacity of the Bureau of Legislation and the Department of Analysis and Research should be increased, but that is, of course, a subject for the estimation. I can see everywhere the intention that we should have more time for legislation. This includes more expertise in research and legislation. That would be the second concrete proposal. As President, I would also like to be strict and just when it comes to the information position. Mr Van Haga mentioned the example of the covid debates. I've also noticed that sometimes you get the information late, that it's a lot, that you have to be able to figure it out and that numbers change. As a result, of course, you cannot fully fulfil your role as a representative of the people. So it's important that it gets more. I think that has certainly been taken steps in recent years. I would therefore like to be an ally of the Members of Parliament to strengthen that information position and to address directors. But also my door is always open to Members of Parliament who say: I am not coming out; my questions are not being answered or my motion is not being carried out. I would suggest that this be taken up with the committees. They often have a clear view of what remains to be done. That cooperation would be my third proposal. We have rapporteurs. Those are MPs who have an extra task to go into depth. Why should we not agree that there is a debate between rapporteurs and government officials in the Cabinet on the outcome of their report? As a Member of Parliament, I know that we have a lot of debates, and sometimes you don't see the forest through the trees. There is also an unpredictability in the Chamber agenda. That is why I think it is very good that the Van der Staaij Committee has come up with a number of recommendations for putting more regularity and structure into that agenda. As President, I will also present a mirror in terms of intent. That intention is: more time for legislation and more time for the long term. As a result of the work of the Van der Staaij Committee in the Rules of Procedure, we agreed that there would be an arrangement of work in the committees. So not everything should be placed on the plenary agenda. I'd like to send a lot more on that. But of course, as chairman, you can't jump higher than the pole of the House of Representatives. I believe that Mr Bosma or Mr Elias said this once during such a debate. Of course, you always depend on a majority for that method. But I would like to be much more steering and confronting in that and to hold the mirror. That is also a question from the SGP. It is not just up to the President. It's a culture change, and that's something we have to do with each other. Coalition, opposition, Chamber and Chairman. I am very wary and very driven to grab this point and hold it together with you. I have given a number of concrete examples of how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u152	Thank you for this explanation. I would like to have that last point further worked out. If we are not careful, we are easily stuck with pious wishes: 'we would like this' and 'I intend to' and so on. How do you get the Chamber to use the committees with a piece of self-discipline, for which they are positioned in the Rules of Procedure? How do you place restraint on certain points in the Chamber? How are you going to do that in concrete terms? I agree with you that, of course, you will not be given a dictator position. You're gonna have to bring us as a room. But that is one of the qualities of the President we are looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u153	Sure, and I think that's right, too. I saw the desire to strengthen the information position in another debate four years ago. It's something that's been going on for a long time and the whole Chamber is telling us to do something with this. I think that is an important signal and that on that basis Mrs Leijten's motion was adopted. How am I gonna do that? First of all, I am going to make an appointment with the Registrar, with our own organisation and with the committees how we can fine tune that and how we can better agree on it. I saw it happen this week. There were a lot of debates. I've kept a mirror in front of my own colleagues. I said: boys, we now have a new amendment to the Rules of Procedure; why all these topical and urgent debates? I think it is important that much more cooperation agreements are reached between the committees and in plenary. I think the Van der Staaij committee's proposal to have the regulation at one time is very good. For the votes, we are going to do a pilot to do that on Thursday at 1 p.m., so that the predictability of the agenda is good. I would also like to look at, with the fantastic team that always works to put that puzzle of ours, to keep more space. More air in that legislative agenda and a good look at what we want with each other. Again, that requires discipline. That requires my direction, and that also requires agreements with all of us. I am prepared to have that discussion with all the group chairmen. How are we going to proceed in the coming period, knowing that there is a motion and knowing that this is so clear from this debate; how are we going to give that form and content? I am going to send a message on it, and I have already mentioned a number of specific issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u154	Thank you for this further elaboration. One of the bottlenecks of the past period has been that opposition parties have made a front against the coalition parties. Of course, this cultural change will not succeed if it continues to be permanent. I would like a further reflection on that. How are you going to deal with this, break the pattern between opposition and coalition, which is putting counterpower against the cabinet out of balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u155	I recognize the point. I recognize it from the previous cabinet period, when we were in opposition. I recognize it now, too. It is a point that plays and which you rightly say is a cultural change. I would like to begin by speaking with all the group chairmen. We're in the twilight zone now, because we don't have a new cabinet yet and we don't know who's gonna be in the coalition yet. Perhaps this is a very good time to discuss with the group chairmen, the Bureau and the committees how we are going to do this. I fully agree that at the moment when debates are stopped, this can be done; sometimes there are good reasons for this too. You do not want that committee agenda to be completed. But you certainly do not want the plenary agenda to be full, which is happening very often now. This also happens with 30 member debates, which we all know will never happen again. Of that culture change, I want to be the figurehead, but I can't do it alone. I shall have to do so with the group chairmen, with colleagues, with the Bureau and with the committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u156	Long, long, long ago, when I was in my first period, an emergency debate you requested was held the same or the next day. We had an agenda with space in it. Now we no longer have an adage debate; that has been abolished and that has become the thirty-member debate. But that was always a means of a minority to get something on the agenda in spite of the majority. There's a little opposition coalition in there. If we say now that these 30-member debates are supported but never held, then we are actually back to square one. The minority will no longer be able to determine the agenda. What role does the President have in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u157	I have also looked at the Van der Staaij Committee on this point. I was curious to hear what the committee said about these 30-member debates. They have spoken to many people and they have said they must keep them, but as a solution they have chosen to do so more in committee, in order to relieve the burden on the plenary agenda. I think that's a very important one. But very realistic: when we want a lot, there is no room in committee and there is no place on the plenary agenda. That means postponement and therefore no possibility for an urgent debate. What I would like to do as President is, when a 30-member debate is requested, to ask the questions: can it not be in a committee, is it urgent? I'd like to show the MP a mirror. What I would like to see is really new to this Chamber, which is that there will be an arrangement at committee level. I can't wait to see how that's gonna work. I expect a lot of that. But again, we have to do it together. The way things are going, we're all not happy about it. So it requires responsibility from all of us. I am going to use all the gremia to finally get that movement, because so far we have not succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u158	I'm still looking for something more. There may be an urgent interest of a minority in this Chamber that is blocked by another group. That could be a coalition or another group that just doesn't want to talk about it. Then it is not enough for the President of the Chamber to say: go to a committee. It will be blocked there. What role does the President-in-Office have when something with an urgent interest for a minority is blocked on substantive grounds or on coalition grounds? We all know that if it is blocked here, it will also be blocked in committee. Then what role does the President have to serve that minority? I hope it's more than the trial. And if it is the content, how will the President stand for that minority?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mrs Leijten says: then it will also be stopped in committee. I don't like that. I expect from the regulation and from the committee more than Mrs Leijten means. I do not think that is a good thing and that there should be room on the agenda of the Air Committee for urgent matters, for AOs that are already planned or for new AOs to be planned. But of course I'll take responsibility. At the moment there is a request and I see that it is urgent. It may also be that it is not urgent. But I would prefer to make an agreement with the group chairmen on how to deal with this structure and this broad-based wish from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u160	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u161	It keeps sanding on me a little bit. For years we wanted to talk about socio-economic health differences, but there was simply a taboo on that. In the meantime, it hasn't been, but it's been rejected everywhere. I do not think it would be right for new parties, for example, to put the problem of the farmer's country on the agenda, to say that we do not think that is important, so we do not. It's that feeling. When are you going to refer that to a committee? It really stranded there when it was stopped on substantive grounds here. That profession is really not enough. And, of course, mirrors, that is all very well, but what role does the President have when there is a substantial minority that reaches 30 Members, who really wants to discuss something that is an urgent matter and what is of interest to some of the population? So she says, "Sorry, guys, I'm giving the minority a chance to discuss it now?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u162	I totally get it. But in my view, you are also dependent on the current President and the Presidents for this on the basis of the majority in the House of Representatives. But I do think we have more tools. For example, when it comes to oral Question Time, there is also an opinion to make it more lively. Of course, this is ideally suited to current events. I will do my best, if things are urgent or found urgent, to see what scope we have in the committee and plenary debate. But in the end, I am not a dictator. I can't impose my will. I can steer. I can hold mirrors. I can make sure that the Chamber is better equipped by extending legislation, the service I just indicated. I can bet all that. In the end, we are the culture and we decide by majority. But I will always be aware of the importance of minorities. To determine which debate may or may not take place, there are new tools for that. I hope that this room will really come into being in committee, because I understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u163	I would like to continue on the path that Mrs Leijten walked, but then take a different turn. Bergkamp says several times: we all have to do it together. I take legislation as an example. This should in principle be dealt with in plenary. In the case of a busy agenda, it can sometimes be done in legislative discussions, but in any case speaking time is limited, especially for the small groups. Often, legislation can also be very important for small groups. Then we really want to be able to make our point. But we also want to have the possibility of making motions on that. How does Mrs Bergkamp see this? Because just saying that the majority decides is not enough, is it? Because that means that as a small party you actually end up on the second track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u164	I think that is a fair question. I wanted to answer this question in another block, but because you are now asking the question: I agree with you. I think there should be time for legislation. In that we must be careful, whether you are a big party or a small party. It should not matter whether you do so in a WHO or in a plenary legislative process. I believe that small and large parties should have all the time they need for legislation. That is also a wish of your Chamber. I can feel it. I see it in all parties. Then it's up to me to take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u165	It should not matter, but it does matter at the moment, because speaking time is simply different. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u166	It is true that there is often an end time at a WHO. I think we should look at that again. Maximising everything is not always the solution. I hope that Mr Wassenberg agrees with me. With 17 parties, we must also remain effective and efficient. But this is how I interpret Mr Wassenberg's question about careful legislation. There must be room for that, whether you're a big party or a small party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mr. Van Baarle, do you have a question about something Mrs. Bergkamp has already addressed? 'Cause I think there's gonna be a couple more cubes. Otherwise, I'd like to give her the space to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u168	Mr President, I would like to build on this point. I would like to ask Mrs Bergkamp whether she agrees with me that it is also a cultural issue in this house. So it's about how we deal with each other in this house. Do we feel that something from a minority point of view is such a serious issue that we are giving someone the opportunity to speak on it in plenary? I think that's something important that we should give each other. I was curious to see to what extent Mrs Bergkamp could be useful in changing that culture. How would she see that as President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u169	I think that is a very nice and fair question. In addition to how we take decisions here, as President, I certainly have a role to play in changing that culture. You can't change a culture alone, of course, but you can be a driver. I also used cultural changes in my previous positions, when I was an organizational advisor. As President, you can indeed give direction to this. One of the concrete examples I gave is to discuss this with the group chairmen. That is one step in the process of cultural change, as well as having regard to the minority position. How are we gonna do this? How can we reduce the burden on the plenary agenda? How can we ensure that the committees become more effective? So I totally agree with you, and that's how I see my role, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u170	Perhaps I should first build on the question that has just been asked about this new governance culture and what you can actually do about it, because I had the same question. I am still hearing very much about what we can improve within the existing frameworks in order to strengthen and safeguard that culture. But I'm also curious if you have any innovative ideas, to break that open and really be that driver. What concrete plans would then be to get to work on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u171	You shouldn't renew it to renew it, I'm just saying. It's always very nice to say: I have an innovative idea. I am very pleased that the Van der Staaij Committee has really looked at the Rules of Procedure by Rule at what we can do to improve that agenda, to improve its structure and to increase its predictability. I think it would be good if we were to implement and comply with those recommendations. That is really important in order to achieve this cultural change together, in terms of the regulation, the way of voting, the culture change, which I mentioned just now in response to the colleague of DENK. I would also like to mention the strengthening of the discussion with the group chairmen, committee and plenary. If we are going to do all that, and we are going to hold the mirror as President, then you have really put a lot into that. But I think it is good to measure in the meantime and ask colleagues: how are you doing? How do I do as President? Do I have to look after something? I think it would be very good to receive feedback on this and to see how we achieve this desired culture step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u172	Let's talk about voting. Would you be in favour of digital voting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u173	That is a very interesting point. I hear my colleague laughing in the background. There have been several investigations into this. There are pros and cons. I call the cost versus the speed. I am always open to looking again at the innovative possibilities. This also applies to a digital quorum. The Chamber hasn't chosen that now. If the Chamber chooses to do so, we are going to introduce it as soon as possible and do it in a good way, just like the First Chamber. It is important that there is also a push from the Chamber to do a number of things in it. It is also up to you to give me the opportunity to digitize further with each other. I'm open to it, but it's up to your Chamber to establish that you think that's a good idea. Because I do depend on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u174	Glad to hear it. We will, of course, also make our contribution to ensuring that these kinds of items are included on the agenda. Then I have one other question about dualism. Ever since I've been in this room, it's been a lot of stuff about that. A great deal has been said about it in the debates last week. In your candidacy, that was actually the first thing that came to mind. The chance that D66 will rule is, in my view, quite high at the moment. So I was also wondering: how are you going to ensure, if you are President immediately, that dualism is really going to be restored and strengthened, especially in the light of last week's discussions? What is the image created towards the people who ultimately elected us? So how are you going to make sure that dualism is really going to be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u175	Of course, I'm not going to anticipate any coalition. We just hired an informant yesterday. We have a failed reconnaissance. So that's not easy. As I said, the most important thing is what type of President I want to be. That is an impartial and independent one. As a Member of Parliament, as well as in my previous positions, I have always been aware of minorities. I think justice and equality are very important. So I'm sure I'll be committed to that. If I may be your President, I will also be very careful. Or my party does, but I'm standing here on behalf of, let me just say, the company of the Bergkamp. I'm not standing here on behalf of D66. I think that every President is entitled: whatever comes out of it, it is important that you are President of all 149 Members of Parliament. You're not anymore because of your party. So you really need to be above that. You have to be color-blind as far as party politics is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u176	One last question, Mr. Chairman, and then I'm really done. We have also seen in recent years that government agreements are being boarded up fairly hard. I just asked the question, so I don't know if it's still on the agenda. But there are several parties that are suspected of getting back together. What is your advice to Members of Parliament who are about to implement a government agreement to ensure that they can actually carry out their controlling role?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u177	If I may be your President, my role in the formation process will be that of counsellor. That may be a bit dull to say, but it is not up to me to take political and substantive positions on this. That really is the difference between being President and being MPs who are currently negotiating in the coalition, hopefully forming a coalition agreement. Those are the responsibilities and that is the division between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u178	First of all, thank you for all the answers and the excellent speech. But many of the improvements are, of course, in very small, practical things. I have already indicated in my own contribution that information was often not available or too late or incomplete. Thank you for reminding me of the Corona debate. That information about corona is often so incredibly much. Then you get some kind of information overload. On all four points, I have not fully understood what you are going to do. I think it is very simple agenda shifts, or perhaps it is a bit dictatorial with the people who deliver it, so that at least we get the chance to prepare things normally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u179	What struck me was that there is little time. It's just an example; we could also talk about all kinds of other topics. We could prepare between you and understand the information and the debate. Of course, you are always dependent on the agenda of the directors; that also plays a role. All parties must be able to do so, but I think it would be a good idea to push it and look at it: when can we have the debate? I would like it very much if we could take on this subject in a broader sense with a number of Members of Parliament: how can we improve that? What are practical things? There are a number of things I could do myself, namely when information is not timely, say: we are moving the debate. That's a possibility. You can also think, I think that a little bit is covered by procedural rules to ask the Members of Parliament if all the information is available so that the debate can continue. These are all simple things you can do yourself; I agree with you. But perhaps there are other possibilities, which I do not see for myself at the moment, but which the Members of Parliament themselves have experienced. I would like to include them in a more complete package to improve the information position of the Chamber. I think it is a very nice solution from our current temporary President to allocate an oral question if written questions have not been answered in good time. That works. I can also imagine that I am going to address a govern mentor or that I sometimes have a cabinet asked for the Chamber. If the provision of information on an important subject is not correct, I think that I, as President, have the role of biting my teeth in it and of being your ally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u180	If there will be ministers and secretaries of state in trade union K, at least I hope that you will cut them off a little faster than you are now taking the opportunity, but that aside. I'm happy with the answers, you know; not of that. While I am standing here, I believe that this debate was scheduled from 10.15 a.m. to 12 noon. I am very often surprised that such a short time for debates is planned. I make my own schedule, but I'm always looking at my nose. Everyone's gonna talk. Everyone is going to interrupt; that's what I'm doing now, so I'm guilty of that myself. The people in Vak-K keep movin' around. What are you gonna do about it? It's possible to just stick to the schedule, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u181	I see two things. I see interruptions that are not short and concise, I say. That is not a reproach to you; we are all guilty of it. The Rules of Procedure state that we should ask a question rather than make an introductory statement. That's where it goes wrong. But I also sometimes see the powerlessness of the President to say something about that every time. We therefore have to repeat ourselves with a mirror, such as 'interruptions must be short'. I also see a lot of repetition in debates. I think it is good to say at some point that I hear the same thing now. It happens all the time. I shall therefore intervene in that regard. Mr. Chairman. Then I will move quickly, encouraged by Mr Van Haga, on to the next block. This is about the composition of the Chamber and respect for minority interests. I think I have already indicated enough in the interruption what I think the level playing field is like. How can the President strengthen the position of the small parties? What I have indicated about strengthening the information position of the Chamber is, of course, also true for the smaller groups. In particular, it is important to extend the Bureau of Legislation and the Analysis and Research Service so that they get more tools. I can also imagine that this is also a subject of discussion which could perhaps be extended if a group were to speak on behalf of several political groups. It's just an idea. Furthermore, I believe that the integration of new groups is also important. My colleague from the BBB, Mrs Van der Plas, also indicated this. It seems very good to me if the Registrar, together with an experienced MP, also looks at how we can be even more helpful to new colleagues from smaller parties. My colleague's question on legislation has been answered. Mr President, I will come to the next block, the block on the organisation of the Chamber. I have briefly indicated what I find very valuable in the report by the Van der Staaij Committee. Think of voting at a fixed time and the settlement through the committees. This is not only to make meetings more efficient and effective; it is also to do with the health of Members of Parliament. A number of questions have also been asked, by GroenLinks and D66. There are concerns about MPs getting overworked. Of course, that doesn't just have to do with the work, let me say that, too, but I feel the responsibility, perhaps because of my HR background, to see what else we can do to prevent that. This is partly due to the unpredictability. I also notice this with colleagues who have left the Chamber. One example of this is the roll-call votes, which often take us hostage here until late in the evening. We have said that a Member of Parliament may request a roll-call vote. That's what I stand for. It is a fundamental right of a Member of Parliament to ask for a roll-call vote. It doesn't describe when it should be. A motion of the VVD and other parties has been adopted stating that a roll-call vote may take place at a time to be determined. I would like to monitor and enforce more of that. Of course, the majority of the Chamber can always decide otherwise. Of course, that can always be done, but I do think it is important to ensure much more that the intention laid down by your own Chamber in an adopted motion is implemented. In view of the unpredictability mentioned by some, I think it is important to focus more on regularity and structure. It is important to do so to prevent too much pressure and too much late debates. I always think there's always a day after that. We were talking recently about a debate on youth services in which Mrs Leijten and I took part. It was very late and we were tired. Mrs Leijten also had a special condition. And yet the drive was to go through the night. You shouldn't want that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u182	I was seven months pregnant at the time. It was pushed through. I said it's fine if we keep going, but then I'm going to lie down for an hour, otherwise I can't hold out. At that time, fortunately, they were suspended. Those are exceptional situations. I do not think it is a good example to wait for a roll-call vote, because applying for it is a right of Members of Parliament. You can agree to do this at another time. There are often parties holding their members in, even if there is no motion or perhaps no vote at all. That is also a dynamic of coalition/opposition. I think the workload's somewhere else. It is in the absence of answers, not being able to get your subjects on the agenda. There's a lot of work in that, there's a lot of frustration in that; there's a lot of slacking in that too. I would like to come back to my question just now, because I found the answer unsatisfactory. There is a minority debate that really cannot be put on the agenda in any other way. The committee's rejecting it, so you're gonna have to be in plenary. It'll come to place 150, but it's urgent. What is Mrs Bergkamp doing as President for that minority?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u183	I would like to return to the example of the roll-call vote. I know that this does indeed play a role for some colleagues. But it's an example. There is indeed much more, like you do not get information, which we have just thought about extensively. Mrs Leijten repeats the question about 30 Members' debates. I've been thinking about that in the meantime. A 30-member debate was indeed intended to respond quickly to current events. It is an option to say at that time: 'Okay, if this is a thirty-member debate, what other debate should be allowed? What does the Chamber agenda look like? How can we make room for a debate that has sufficient support for a 30-member debate?" I'm thinking for a second. If there is more room on the plenary agenda, which happens to be some army now, also through covid and the special weeks, I would also like to argue that there is sometimes some emptiness on that agenda. That's okay at all. Then you increase the chance that there will be a little more room for urgent matters for which there is a minority, a thirty-member debate, so that you may be able to bring that forward, provided, of course, that the Chamber thinks that is a good idea with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u184	Actually, I was thinking of something else. I think it would be very sensible if the new President would simply keep a day, an afternoon free for topical and personal events, with the Presidium, in consultation with minorities as well. You can see it's being played away. It is not going to happen that it is said: yes, it is urgent, but it is a minority debate; then sacrifice another debate. We all know this isn't gonna happen. It would be a good thing if we were to use those mirrors and see how that list could be considerably shorter and whether the debate that is being requested should take place in plenary. That is all true, but there are situations where debates will and will remain blocked. Then there is the President, who should serve the minority and be able to serve in the short term. That's more than just a trial. That's content, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u185	Mrs Leijten's suggestion is, I think, a very sensible one. Apart from this debate, I think we should deal with this issue, regardless of which one of us is President. I think it would be good to look again at the Van der Staaij committee, to reflect again on whether that is a solution. I think that is a very serious point. I would point out that it seems to me that there is more room at all on the urgent agenda. It could be added if there was agreement from the Chamber as a whole. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. I have already said a few things about managing 17 parties. The Van der Staaij Committee makes good suggestions. Process control is, I think, an important one. My colleague, Raoul Boucke, has given me the tip of looking at the European Parliament, in which a lot of countries meet very efficiently and effectively. I would like to look at this: fewer repetitions, shorter interruptions. Once again, however, I sometimes see the hard work of the Presidents to lead it. The intention is there and I am fighting to play my part in that if I may be your President. I have indicated that, on the basis of my HR experience, I have also been director of facilities.... would play a good role in the move. I also participated in the preparation from the Bureau. I'm motivated to do that, too. In doing so, it is important to implement the motions adopted by the Chamber to put the interests of users at the heart of the issue, to allow them to participate and to make new governance arrangements. I think it would be very good to do so as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. My next block is about the official organisation and continued professionalisation. I think the colleague of the VVD asked the question: what do you take with you from hr or human resources or personnel policy? From that, I take it that developing your people actually determines the success of your organization. Mrs Leijten also asked: what is the machine, the core, of that? So that is the official organisation, which always gives us good support to our consciences. Just as emancipation is a verb, professionalization is also a verb. You should always see how you can keep getting the organization up to date. This concerns, for example, the provision of family care, or inclusion. That is also very important to me; it seems to me to be an excellent subject to come back to at some point in the estimation. I also think it would be a good idea to strengthen the Registrar's position in this, so that in this case she can sometimes warn the organisation about what can and cannot be done. I think that signal function is also a very important one. I would also like to look at a safe environment, career development and training policy. In the end, the Registrar is of course responsible for this with the management team, but I would like to play a part in it from my experience. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the gap between public and government, between politics and society. We all have a responsibility in that, of course, but the President has a special responsibility in that, because she or he is the head of the Chamber. Accessibility is important. I think it is extremely important that there are deaf interpreters and that Parliament is accessible to people with assistance dogs, people in wheelchairs, blind people and hearing impaired people. Parliament must be as accessible as possible. I think you see it in me; I do not often gesture with my fists, but I think that is very important. In the previous period, much has been done with the UN Convention on People with Disabilities. I think it would be very good if we, as a parliament, were ahead of that. Of course, a lot of steps have been taken, but I think it is very good to bring that forward. The same applies to inclusiveness. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question: how are we seen? Mr Van der Plas also mentioned this. It is always important to look and think from the outside to the inside: how do we do it? What's our language? I also sometimes tend to use some difficult words or abbreviations. That's what you often see in a care debate. But it's good to feel that responsibility in all of that. I think it is very nice what is already happening in this Parliament, because of Corona, that it is now, unfortunately, on hold, for example, the students who come here and the questioning of children. But wouldn't it be nice if we also did technical briefings or hearings on site at an execution organisation? Of course, each party has its own responsibility for working visits, but we could sometimes deal with hearings and round tables a little more resourceful. It is quite institutional now, with a position paper and up to two questions, while you sometimes think: I would need more questions. There is a great deal to be said about this, but I hope that I have answered this question sufficiently in this way, as well as the question of accessibility. We have also been asked: where are your limits as President? What can be said? What about freedom of speech? For me, freedom of speech is a very good thing. The Chamber is about the content. The President can say a few words about the form. That is what the Rules of Procedure offer all kinds of tools for. It is of course up to the President to intervene or not; you cannot cut it with scissors. I honestly think that meeting discipline is a bigger challenge than our use of words in the Chamber. Keeping us on shorter interruptions, letting each other speak, and the effectiveness of the meeting is a bigger challenge for us, I think. JA21 also asked a question about dignity: what is it in? As far as I am concerned, this dignity lies in respecting the rules we have agreed with each other: not screaming, letting each other talk, respecting the corona rules. Everyone I also forget sometimes his mouth cover, but it is so important to speak to each other and not to breathe in each other's faces at 5 centimeters. It's important to do that. After all, we are the example. People are looking at us. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of specific questions that I have already answered a little. Mrs Simons van BET1's question was: does the composition of the coalition affect the functioning of the President? It shouldn't be. If I am your President, that will not happen. I believe that a President should be impartial and independent. If there is feedback on this, there may also be misunderstandings. I hope that my answer is clear. The SGP asked what an ideal plenary agenda looks like. I thought that was a very nice question. I'd like to start on time, 10:15, and end on time, 11:00 p.m., not later, and with the corona rules at 7:00 p.m. There must be sufficient time for legislation and the major issues, and there must be sufficient room, inspired by Mrs Leijten, for current events. That'd be great. It must be a plenary agenda that can contain more the essence, more the major social debates, but also a great deal to be done away with in committees. Furthermore, GroenLinks asked a question about corona, the lessons learned. In any case, I think it would be a good idea to evaluate that with your Chamber. In any case, the government's policy on corona is being evaluated, but I also think it is appropriate for this to be done with our functioning. In any case, it seems to me right to say that this is one point that I should like to make in order to have debates on the main issues, i.e. a debate on the state of education, the state of care. I think it is a good thing that you can at least allow these big issues to continue. I have answered the question about the digital quorum and also the question about private. Then there's the law. Mrs Leijten asked a question about the Tax Plan. I think she has a point there. Every year, it's a struggle of lots of parties. There's not much improvement. It's not easy for people. I would very much like to see how the way the ministry works, if that is realistic, can be more consistent with the way our Chamber operates, for example by having much more phasering in it. I think that is a legitimate subject, and it seems to me very nice to be the first big subject to be dealt with as a Chamber. The Animal Party also asked how we deal with gender issues. I think that's a very nice question, also because I was spokesperson emancipation. Yeah, you're all human. You can always have some kind of blind spot for that, but I think I have an eye for that and should get feedback on that. 'Cause I too have my blind spots in there. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a nice question asked by the BBB, namely: now name your best quality and your less good quality. I think my good trait is that I stand for justice and equality. It's in my gene. It's in my past. It's in my previous functions, and it's in my present. I carry those values with me and I will always try to give them a place in any position. A bad trait is that I'm not very good at names. I remember faces, but in names I really need to be trained and practiced. So that's gonna be a bit of a vote when it comes to that. I'm really gonna practice with that. That's a little bit of the way I look at myself. I am sure there are other qualities, but I found them equally relevant to the role of President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u186	Well, this is Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u187	Yeah, you can wait for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u188	I wanted to say that fortunately we only have one person in the group and not 35; that is a little easier. But thank you for answering the last question. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u189	Thank you. Maybe I can finish by discussing what you said about the non-verbal. I used to have a supervisor, and when people wanted to come into his room, they used to look at his mood first. I hated that. At that time I agreed with myself, and I would also like to do so if your President, Mr Delors, did not have to decide what day it is. Of course, you are a human being, but it is important to make every debate a celebration too, because it is of course extremely honorable to be here at all, in any role. I have a very brief final word, Mr President, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u190	Yes, first the final word; that seems to me to be a good thing. And then the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u191	But then there might be the final word. I hope I've been able to convince you of my motivation and fitness. I also hope that you will all make your own assessment. In any case, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u192	I would like to ask my colleagues to ask a short question, with the emphasis on short. Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u193	I hope I can meet that, Mr President. I was wondering why Mrs Bergkamp wasn't actually withdrawing. Does Mrs Bergkamp want this way, after a secret, secret phone call in the middle of Mrs Kaag's night to Mr Rutte eight hours later, Mrs Bergkamp's candidacy ended up in the chair?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u194	I am glad that this question is being asked. I don't like it. I don't like the suggestion that's being woken up either. But it's good to clarify that. It's a good use in this house to inform each other. That is what Mrs Kaag said in yesterday's debate with Mr Wilders, no more or less. There's no deal. In all the functions I've ever done, I've done so on my own. And now I'm doing it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u195	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u196	At least the image is very different. The fact is that Mrs Kaag called and Mrs Bergkamp only applied after that. It was, of course, a clear signal that Mrs Kaag could deliver. First by a motion of censure. Then Rutte as Kaag of course knows enough: Bergkamp goes on behalf of D66 and the VVD will support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u197	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u198	I would still like to give Mrs Bergkamp: withdraw. This is not the way you should want to end up in the Chair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u199	What I regret at the moment when I answer a question is that there is a reaction to that that is not consistent with the factual explanation I have given. That's exactly the difference. In this way, images are created very quickly; I admit that they do not correspond to reality. Let me say again: I stand here as Vera Bergkamp, not on behalf of D66. Since when is it bad for people to inform each other? I think we have a good use here for informing each other. There are no appointments; I don't need them. I'm standing here on my own. It is ultimately up to your Chamber to make its own choice. This is the story. These are the facts. I don't have anything else to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u200	Thank you in the direction of Mrs Bergkamp for the comprehensive answer to the questions. One point that I raised on behalf of the DENK Group, and on which I also asked a question, was raised by referring to the word 'inclusiveness'. However, I am more curious as to how you would like to deal with this in concrete terms. How will you, as President, if it were you, work for representativeness, diversity and inclusion in the Chambers? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u201	That's a fair question. I have indicated that I think it is a very important subject and that I think it is so important that it should be part of the estimate. Having an exemplary role as Lower House, whether it is about accessibility or inclusiveness, is very important to me. I will make this a very important point and I will make my own efforts, of course together with the House of Representatives. I know a lot of steps have already been taken, so it's not like we're starting from scratch. But it is good to talk about this with each other and to be representative and to have an exemplary role, also looking at society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u202	Finally and very briefly, to be of service to that. I would like to ask Mrs Bergkamp if she can make something more specific about what she sees in this regard. What specific measures would you see in this regard? It is true that steps have been taken over the past period. I don't want to take that off. However, as a group, we believe that additional steps need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u203	A manifesto has been adopted, also by the House of Representatives, to which the Chamber must comply. That manifesto is about inclusivity. It also contains objectives. I would therefore like to continue with that. I think that really is the core of what we stand for. But I agree with you that it would be a good idea to re-examine that and to talk about it at the time of the estimation. Yes, it's an important subject for me, because when it comes to equality and justice, it affects it directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u204	I have one question that hasn't been answered. It doesn't start right. That was the question about the recommendations of the Bosman Committee. I also have another question. I can understand why Mrs Bergkamp wants to save a bit of the cabbage and the goat here and to keep friends on the left, right, small, big, everything and everyone. But in the end that will not be the reality. The reality will be that decisions have to be made. Then I'll come back to my first interruption. Can Mrs Bergkamp give an example of a short and decisive decision that really needs to be made? And I do not mean politically substantive, but simply here in the organisation as secretary of her party or, for example, in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u205	For example, when it comes to my own group, I have proposed to carry out and evaluate employee satisfaction research. I have just proposed to do that again, because new people have been hired. That is something I am discussing with my group and I think it is very good. I think it's important that people can work in a safe environment. That also applies to my own group, so that is an example. I can give you a lot of other examples. Anyway, this may be an example that I hope will also be relevant to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u206	It gives the impression of a lot of polders, a lot of talk and a lot of consultation. I think sometimes you have to make a very strong decision. Especially when it comes to the corona crisis, for example, about how we meet here, sometimes we simply have to make a decision in the very short term. You won't be able to keep everyone a friend. Then you'd have to make a decision. I'm actually looking for that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u207	I agree. I've been voted the most effective Member of Parliament twice. So I'm going for results, only I'm going for cooperation. You called it "poldering" because I believe that you can achieve more. And you're not gonna be an effective MP either. That means you have results through initiative laws and hard work. But indeed, I often choose to do it with each other, because I believe that you will have more support and can achieve more. So I think that's something other than poldering. I always have that goal in mind, and I think that a number of directors have experienced it up close. When it comes to regulating the growing of weed, I'm hanging in there. When it comes to Johan van Laarhoven: I hold on. So ball on the dot, have an eye for that, go for it and achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u208	I listened very carefully to Mrs Bergkamp's answers. She said a few times that she wants MPs to hold a mirror. In itself, that can always be valuable, although I must honestly admit that an average MP, if you know your pappenheimers a little bit, will say: I do look good today and again. What happens then? That is, I think, also the question that Mrs De Vries asked. What's needed in the room? What firm decisions are you prepared to take within the space you have as President? Of course, the majority decides here, but it has to go beyond conducting investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u209	I believe that I have made many different points in relation to the recommendations of the Van der Staaij committee: for example, on Thursday at 1 p.m. a second vote, an arrangement through the committees, to make the debate on inclusiveness an important subject. So I have already made a lot of specific points, but I also think it is important that the bar is high so as not to create the wrong expectation that it is all easy. Nor would I find that fair to you as a Chamber, because this President would have already succeeded in realising all the things we want. So I hope that this debate is in order to get to know me better, so that you know what kind of President I am, what I stand for, looking at my results, my background and my experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u210	I think it is right that the recommendations of the Van der Staaij committee should be accepted, because that is what the Chamber voted for. That is also the task, and that is good, but it is also of course a matter of time and time again, and that is what we have seen in recent years, for example, with the renovations and architects. The previous President has been very hard on this and has not only made friends. Sometimes it's necessary if you want to make a difference here in the Chamber. The same applies to the protection of the minority. Then there is an occasional event where the majority disagrees and asks for it to be removed from the agenda. Mrs Leijten has asked about this six times, and I agree with that. My question is: where do you draw your line and what do you really want to push through when it gets difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u211	I am very wary when it comes to strengthening the Chamber's information position. That's an assignment from you as a room. We have not succeeded in this in recent years. It's very important. I have also said that I am an ally of you as a Chamber and as a Member of Parliament to always leave the door open to work with you to answer those questions and to carry out the motions. I have said a number of concrete things about cultural change together with the group chairmen. I said myself: rapporteurs in the Chamber, debate with this cabinet, address directors and even the cabinet as a whole. I have indicated when it comes to tax legislation to see how the approach of the Chamber can be leading with regard to the approach of a ministry. I have mentioned a lot of concrete things about this, but of course it can always be more. You have ideas; I am open to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u212	I realize a lot of questions have been asked. I had three important points. What's the engine room look like? Is that okay? That's been addressed a little bit. Mrs Bergkamp spoke about legislation and the question of power, opposition and what is a representative of the people. Thanks for that, but I also had another important question. That is my position: an attack on one is an attack on all. How do the President-in-Office view this? We've just seen it with "position Verzigt, function elsewhere." We can see it in the future. How are we gonna get along? What role does a President-in-Office have in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u213	That's a fair question. Let's talk about the machine. I think of them as the official organization. Sometimes that's what I'm worried about. We are under a magnifying glass, but also the Chamber of Representatives. The pressure is sometimes high, from security guards to messengers. I think that we should be aware of this and see how they can work in a safe, stimulating environment. Then about "an attack on one is an attack on others." I liked to see it, but it was too late for the Chamber to care. I believe that everyone, from coalition to opposition, has expressed disgust, and I think that is right. I believe that a President has the role of protecting Members of Parliament, if they are threatened, at a time when they are not allowed to travel to a particular country, when they do not get their information. I'd like to be one of those presidents. I think it is right for you to draw attention to this in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u214	There is one final question, Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u215	Well, I guess I'll just hang in there. I asked for a response to the recommendations of the Bosman Committee. We think that report is important. It also has implications for the Chamber. How does the President-in-Office view that? I'm curious about the reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u216	Totally. This is an important report, in which a number of important recommendations are made. I don't think it's important to take them all off for a while, but one of the recommendations is to talk to the implementation organisations. I think that's very good. I myself suggested that hearings and technical briefings should also be held on site. Let's talk to implementation organisations and let's apply the tools we have a little more creatively. But strengthening the information position is part of that, too, to get signals. It also says: give more appreciation and control to professionals. I think it is important that the report has made us realize that sometimes it cracks and squeaks there. It is important that the Chamber takes sufficient time for legislation and keeps in close contact with important implementation organisations that do such important work. I'm an executive myself; that's my background. I could say a lot more about that, but I hope that Mrs, er, De Vries, I have already said it: names...; but well, this one was kind enough to say that I was happy with this answer. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u217	Thank you for your comprehensive reply. I would like to give the floor to Mr Bosma, but first we need to clean the chair. I give you the floor, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u218	Madam President, thank you for turning on my microphone, which is appreciated by Members of the application committee. Every movie knows its deep shit moment. It's the moment in the story where everything seems to be lost, when everything is against it. The hero is down and out, alone and deserted, or he's surrounded and shot from all sides. In the Titanic, of course, that's the moment the ship sinks. In Soldier van Oranje, Erik Hazelhoff is alone on the beach, with Germans everywhere. In Turkish Fruit, that's when Olga, or Monique van de Ven, breaks up with Erik, or Rutger Hauer. It's a cinematic law. Each scenario knows its deep shit moment. In the feature film called Staten-General, whose first scene was recorded in 1464, our beautiful parliament reached its own deep shit moment last Friday morning. Have we ever fallen deeper? Were we ever deeper into trouble than last Friday morning, 3:15? Have we ever been more humiliated, have we ever been more confronted with our own powerlessness? The insults flew all over us by the foot. What we actually suspected was confirmed by, among other things, the paper that explorer Ollongren unwittingly showed to the people and all the information that came after it. The now proverbial "function elsewhere," or "you have to do something with Pieter Omtzigt," or "will we just make him President of the Chamber?"': That's how the cabinet apparently feels about the elected parliament. The humiliation is complete. And we thought that our deep shit moment had been reached before, namely when the surcharge scandal was unfolding, the unprecedented injustice. And then we could look back, not only at the damage done to civilians, but also the damage done to the integrity of the House of Representatives. Lacking away, withholding information, systematically throwing away elected representatives, the talks in the Council of Ministers about how to keep a critical MP on the line... It all hurt our eyes. And actually, that was just a slot apotheosis of a series of developments that over the past few years or so. It's been going on for decades. For a long time we have been sitting on a train in the House of Representatives towards irrelevantness. I don't want to go back too far in time, but the Marijn cabinet introduced the coalition agreement. Today, a government agreement has the size of a five-year plan in the Soviet Union. But at the same time, the text can easily be summarized with the slogan: "Dear House of Representatives, in the coming years you will have nothing more to say. Greetings, the cabinet." Over the last few years we have had a flood of agreements: the social agreement, pension agreement, social rental agreement, nitrogen agreement, you name it. The cabinet made a deal with the polder, and the Chamber then checked. More and more laws come from Brussels; we adopt them for notification. There's the proliferation of AMvBs, general governance measures; the Chamber doesn't even see them. And we see a judiciary that sometimes takes political decisions; see Urgenda. Meanwhile, the orbital speed of MPs has become so high that much knowledge constantly flies out the door. Many MPs quickly become mayor; even though not a challenge to bite in the hand that nourishes. And a lot of room debates have become plays. In advance, the Minister sometimes knows what the Member of Parliament is going to say, because the Member of Parliament has given the text of the speech to the political assistant. All the ruler has to do is to spoon up the prepared text. It could have been done by e-mail. In the meantime, we have to note that Article 68 of the Constitution, the duty, is: duty! In practice, it is very little to offer information to the people's representatives. And that is painful, because for the Chamber this is the most fundamental, the most crucial constitutional article. Without reliable information, we simply can't do anything at all; then we talk in the air. The Ruttedoctrine is only the effect of that. We're moving to the building we call "B67" this summer. Perhaps we should chisel the text of Rule 68 in the wall there. More has been painted away than just texts in documents surrounding the supplement scandal; we are a bit painted away. We were very proud of ourselves that we removed the formation from the King; we were all going to do it ourselves. We looked in the mirror and were impressed by our own muscles. But the practice is very different: the cabinet forms itself; ministers and senior officials arrange it all. We are only here for the photo moment and the rental of a room; the cabinet takes its own officials. Parliament is rarely the place where the people speak to the government; it is the place where the government speaks to the people. And the question that arises is: are we a parliament, or are we playing a parliament? In many places you have theme parks. You don't even have the Archeon that far from here. There are people out there in Roman army uniforms, and they're speaking to you in Latin. Are those real Romans? No, they're playing it. Are we real parliamentarians or are we playing it? Are we a parliament or a theme park, or are we on our way there? Where dualism should prevail, there is monism: Chamber and cabinet are intertwined. Mr Ceder mentioned the book by Anne Vondeling, which is often cited in this type of debate. Vondeling was President of the Chamber in the 1970s, his book was called "Second Chamber: Lion or Lamb?'. It is clear what the answer is: we are a lamb. And not only that, but we're also on the menu as lamb. Every Friday afternoon in the Trêveszaal, where the cabinet meets, a lamb poured with monistic sauce in a bed of beaten irrelevantness with an apple in our mouth. Afterwards, the ministers leave a little peasant, and they say, "Mark, what's on the menu next week, not lamb again?" It was lacking that the scout's papers said: "Hire building as caravan storage." Well, why not? Mr President, it is no longer possible to do so. I can only do so today with one goal: the complete rehabilitation of the parliament. If we don't, we don't use this deep shit moment to turn the steps 180 degrees, then we just become redundant and we really become a theme park and we're like the people who play the Romans: fun for the tourists but relevant to no one. We can also say: up to here and no further. And with that last message, I stand before you today. Anyone who thinks the Chamber is powerless is mistaken. The Chamber is supreme, not only on paper but also in practice. We simply have the nuclear option at our disposal. Without a Chamber that approves the laws, the cabinet is completely powerless. They need us, not the other way around. The wheels will stand still if our powerful arm will. The first thing we need to do is to make it clear to the cabinet or the cabinet in the prime paint that government agreements of hundreds of pages of paper really cannot be done anymore. My commitment to the negotiations when your President starts with two A4s. Actually, I think that's enough. After that we can always admit and then we end up at five A4's. We secretly enlarge the font. The Prime Minister announced that he would come forward with radical proposals on his race bike on Sunday. Wonderful, there's momentum. He will be very happy with this. And then we have to deliver the fight from home to home, from street to street to get Article 68 Constitution back on track. And there, too, we have the nuclear option. I'm sure we'll figure it out soon. Our power is enormous. It is now the case that it is the minority, because it is not the coalition, which demands compliance with Article 68. So there is no majority in favour and so the President must protect that minority and stand up for it. It's not about one thing, it's not about a detail, but it's about the reason we're on earth. It is also so strange that the General Court has stronger powers of information than the House of Representatives, such as asking for the content of officials and consulting all relevant documents. That is remarkable and that must change. What can't be said, Mr Sneller and Mr Wassenberg, is that a lot of administrators have a hand in presenting their plans, ideas or balloons first in the press and then informing the Chamber. That is a total affront of us and that belongs in the theme park that we do not want to be. Then too, we must speak harsh words and, if necessary, draw the nuclear option. As a Chamber, we must again take a leading role in the nominations for High Colleges of State. The fact that the Chief of the Council of State is appointed in a meeting with the Minister of the Interior and that the House of Representatives is then told in a question, is too crazy for words. I suggest hearing, hearings, just like in America. Go ahead and see those candidates. Counterpower is needed. Everyone seems to agree on that. What then, unfortunately, is not possible is that the Chamber is led by the power party par excellence, D66, or someone from the party of the informant, the Labour Party. Whoever preaches against power immediately chooses business as usual again by not doing it all. This proves that all good intentions were for the public gallery. That sounds like flat and vulgar populism. We all have to stay away from that. The scout's documents show that my party, I quote, is "detached." I don't know what that means by state law, but it sounds like "condemned to the opposition." Dualism will have to emerge first and foremost from that opposition. So someone from the opposition has to be President of the Chamber. I can't make it any more logical than that. Because that is the best chance of keeping a maximum distance from the cabinet. The government is absolutely not our enemy, but it is our opponent. Whether we like it or not, we just have a different role in the law of the state, and that resistance to roll is in everyone's best interest. Just accept that! Mr. Chairman. It is no secret that I am particularly fond of Mrs Arib. The contact between the Vice-Presidents and the President is always intensive and regularly I devote more time to the House of Representatives than to my own group. The most pleasant part of the working week for me is the only time I get to ride with her in the service car, especially if Mr Öztürk takes pictures of it. I like Mrs Arib very much, but as far as scouting gate is concerned, I think she skated too far, given her reaction to Mrs Ollongren's faux pass, which was: yes, an annoying day and it does not deserve the beauty prize; but well, we have to move on. I did not see a President fighting like a lion for Parliament in the next few days in the debate. I was very sorry to hear that. But knowing her, she will undoubtedly learn from this and will not do so again. Mr. Chairman. Questions about: how should I lead the meetings? Well, that's pretty simple. The way I've been doing it for ten years, in my own way. So whistling at the game, making everyone come to their sense, making sure all the sounds are heard. Do not be too difficult about the rules if a nice attack is carried out and then apply the benefit rule. At the same time, keep things tight. Don't let debates take unnecessarily long. Mrs Bromet and Mr Haga talked about night debates. Van Haga, recovery; thank you, Madam President. Yes, night debates are terrible; we must avoid them. It is very simple; that also applies to debates that start in the morning. When the egg is laid, the egg is laid; then we quickly end it. Then I just cut everyone off and then we can go home quickly and then we can read to the kids or just eat at home again. Some of us also have a life after politics. And so we remain healthy; that is immediately an answer to Mrs Kuik and Mrs Bromet. I don't talk unnecessarily through speakers, unless they just keep popping through. Yes, politicians do; they like to hear themselves talk. There are many unnecessary debates, says Mr Van Haga. Yes, I am, but I would like to quote Mr Nijboer, with whom I am happy to sit at the Bureau. He always says: "It's quite simple in the House of Representatives; we just do what the majority wants." The majority is crying out for all kinds of debates, so the agenda is full. And the majority sometimes also wants debates that other people find unnecessary. That is the reality. Is that gonna change? I don't think so, because we all think our own subject is the most important one. It is being complained that we now have 17 groups. I think the problem is not so bad. In the previous period we had 15 groups and groups. I started with the Wilders Group myself. We were a one-man group. Yeah, that's annoying; there's not much you can do. I do not see a very big problem, unless you have a plenary debate with 17 speakers and everyone has four minutes. And then my group leader is going to say: 'Can that be six minutes?' Yeah, then you start at 10:15 in the morning and you won't be home until 7:00 in the evening. That's just the bitter reality. I would say: enjoy it for a while, because if we get splits, it will be a complete disaster. But there's nothing to do about it. This is what it is; these are just the rules and we all want to talk. The same applies to the so-called dignity, as it was called, and the forms of behaviour. Mrs Den Haan made a point of that. I have to say, I don't see any deterioration in the manners. In the twenties of the last century we had Boer Braat, a distant predecessor of Mrs Van der Plas. Yeah, it just tore up legislative proposals for the ministers' eyes, called them names, and then ran madly out of the Old Hall. So it's of all times. I am happy to do something about it, because I think that debates should be formal. So indulgence and that sort of thing, no, absolutely not! Of all the debates, 99.99% are very formal, not to say boring. First the debate, the Chamber makes its say, we listen patiently to each other. Then there is a 15 minute break, we drink coffee and talk about our holiday plans and exchange news about the political business. After that, the Minister will speak. If that's Hugo the Young, it'll take forever. Then the second term and then home. Sometimes we're decent, ordinary people, and there's never a word that's unbearable. Some people who are members of the House of Representatives for three days have gotten a bit crazy from us, but it's not that bad! In practice, the number of collisions is very limited. And sometimes it's actually a bit brighter, because we're just here to represent our constituents and we're here to make our sound sound. So I'm against swearing and violence, but I think it's okay to taste each other's kidneys hard. I find it very often too complacent. Some Members seem to object to parts of my party's electoral programme. Well, that's gonna hit my group hard. For starters, I'm not a member of the PVV. I've never been; I keep them at a distance myself. I live at Groucho Marx's adage, who said, "I would never join a club that would accept me as a member." But it doesn't matter which group I'm here for, because you'll never notice when I'm President. Then I'll just be there on behalf of the entire Chamber. My example in this area is Mrs Arib, who has been exemplary neutral in recent years. And it is also simply a tradition of Presidents. Mrs Verbeet of the Labour Party I was allowed to serve her for two periods as Vice-President of the Labour Party at a congress of the Labour Party that she was behind, far beyond the range of the cameras, because she wanted to keep that all apart. That's neat. That's how it goes. That's our tradition. That's the way it's supposed to be. No one has ever been able to catch me in any partiality in the ten years I have been here in the House of Representatives. That must be your honor as President. The same goes for behind the scenes. I had a bond at the Bureau with Ronald van Raak, who unfortunately left us. We had one sensitivity, namely if in the Presidium someone said'my group finds this and that'. Then we immediately cut that off and screamed that person in the neck: you are not here on behalf of a group; you are here for the general interest of the House of Representatives. So I'm as roomier as the Pope. How do I deal with things I don't like? Mrs De Vries asked a question about the move. I hate that move, yeah. I've done a lot to stop them. We're gonna regret it, too. Mrs Van Tellegen can briefly summarize how this has gone in recent years in the Bureau and in the Construction Guidance Committee. But we're gonna do it. As Vice-President, I often do things that I do not support at all. The most recent example is the College of Integrity Members. My group is against this. We have had a fierce debate. We believe that this is wrong for all kinds of constitutional reasons. The Chamber decided by majority vote that this college should be established. In the two weeks around the elections, while colleagues were working on leaflets on the streets, Mrs Van Tellegen, Mrs Arib and I were sitting in the oxygenless First Chamber of the House of Representatives to reduce 144 CVs to three candidates. We worked really hard on that. Sometimes I'd say, "We have to do it again." We've been working on it for days, weeks. A great three-piece has come out, just great candidates. When I'm actually against it. That's what you do when the majority of the Chamber wants something. Then you're just gonna do it loyally. That's the way it's supposed to be. Someone from the spheres of DENK once came up with a nice case: what, Martin, when the House of Representatives decides that a mosque should be built in the House of Representatives? Well, we're moving to what we call B67, so there's two more floors free. So there's plenty of room, I'd say. Well, it's very simple: then DENK simply has to come up with a proposal. If the House of Representatives votes in favour and the proposal is adopted by a majority, because everything goes through the majority, I will make sure that that mosque gets there and if necessary I will open it as well. Mrs Leijten has invented a nice case in which I have to have a constitutional discussion with a 8-year-old boy. It is quite simple: every President is there for the whole Chamber. All kinds of groups have positions. Suppose we have a Chairman of the Labour Party and he ends up somewhere in the business community during a work visit or something. There is a director who, according to the party programme of the Labour Party, actually has to give up salary. Then the President will answer questions on behalf of the Chamber. Let's say there's a D66 president. He comes into a nursing home and gets the question: "You all have things about the end of life, don't you? I think that's very dangerous." Well, then that D66 president will answer on behalf of the entire Chamber. To Yessin I will explain what is going on in the Netherlands and I will tell him the general story. That's all. Mrs. Leijten thinks I should iron him through the hair, too. Well, I'll do that on this one. If she comes with a motion to force me to do so, I say: Mr President, I am happy to look forward to it. As President, Madam President, I will be so neutral that it hurts the eyes. Having said that, I would like to bring something out of history. We had a female president once. That was Mrs Jeltje van Nieuwenhoven. That was rightly seen and presented as a breakthrough in the emancipation of women. We got a great President of Moroccan-Dutch origin and that was just as rightly seen as a breakthrough in the emancipation of the Moroccan population. I see my candidacy today as a contribution from my population: the 15% to 20% of the population that is being put away as tokkies, populists, or underclass. People whose Interior Minister says they have no culture or civilisation and therefore should never enter the government; otherwise the Republic of Amsterdam must be declared. Recently she parked us in the corner of the Nazis. It's probably called "connection." That's not a detail. In the end, it's a mortal sin. It is at odds with any democratic feeling. It's just a call to apartheid. For only one population in the Netherlands there is a de facto occupational ban, always by people who preach diversity and inclusion. Put PVV, or Forum, or perhaps JA21 on your resume and apply to the Public Prosecutor's Office, a university, the NPO or the government. You can save the e-mail. You cannot put that population outside the political system forever and say: you may pay taxes, but democracy is not for you; there is no place for you in the inn. In America, a revolution started under the slogan "no taxation without representation." If I become President, that also means that we as a population group, my people, will have a place at the table for once. That would be justified, especially as a member of the most stable fraction of this house. Look at the top twelve of longest-sitting MPs. They're all PVV guys. We must only tolerate Mrs Arib between us and Mr Van der Staaij. We are investing in this Parliament, whereas other groups see this as a transit house or a stepping stone to "something better." A few more questions. Mrs De Haan said that the same questions are always being asked in debates. That's right, but that's because we're all making movies these days. So we're all gonna be outraged at the interrupting microphone and that's on Twitter. The fact that the subject has already been raised six times does not matter. I wish it were different, but I would not know how to change that as President. Mr Bishop asks how we stay away from the delusion of the day. The delusion of the day is our own. We consider ourselves important and our point is the most important point we can think of. We want a debate in the Chamber on this and not tomorrow, but today. That is the reality; try to change it. Mrs Bromet asks how debates can be well followed by citizens. This can be done by forcing participants to simply speak Dutch. No abbreviations, no jargon. I get to run the Treasury a lot. Then the multi currency default swaps fly you around the ears. No one knows what it's about; it's some kind of cult. But you have to try to make sure that they speak Dutch again that Henk and Ingrid can understand. Mr Dassen asked for an opinion for MPs trapped in a government agreement. Fight away, be a man, be a rebel! Be a Pieter Overzigt! It's possible; anyone can do it! Mr Sneller is still angry at my group leader's statement on the fake parliament. That statement is from Hans van Mierlo if I have to believe the Volkskrant's opinion page. You may be shocked by a word, but I'm a lot more afraid of the practice. Mrs. Ollongren's papers scare me. I am afraid of the documentary in which Mrs Kaag sits and answers parliamentary questions. What you see there is the firm Kleitje in the reeds. That scares me. We are being made a fake parliament and my proposal is that we put an end to it from today on. Finally, Mr President. I would like to thank Mrs Arib for the last five years. She's done great with dignity, charm and her motherly and grandmotherly skills. If I do not fall in the prices, I will be happy to serve her if she needs me as Vice-President. The links between my group and the President have always been excellent. This recently appeared in that disgusting article by RTL News cited by Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Baarle. That was character murder, low on the ground and a knife in the back. I am particularly proud that it was my group leader, who was the first to speak out against it in words that were not misunderstood, whereas he is normally very nuanced. Now he went hard on it. I was very proud of it and I was happy about it. I think he was one of the few. There is a deal. Mrs. Kaag and Mr. Rutte have an agreement, namely that it should be the best. That's me. I promise you, Mrs Arib, when I become President, you can always ride in the service car. You're always welcome in the backseat with me. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u219	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u220	Mr Bosma knows the PVV as a dualist group. Hence a critical question. I sense a fairly unacceptable position from Mr Bosma. Should there be a majority in this house that wants to open a mosque in this building or in the new building, then Mr.Bosma would carry out that mission and even open the mosque. But Mr Bosma must agree with me that Islam represents everything that is not democratic. How can someone with such a great heart for democracy want to open a mosque, in the theoretical case, which is the symbol of anti-democracy? There are also key principles for Mr Bosma, isn't there? Otherwise, certainly for our group where we will not support Mr Bosma's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u221	This is called, I believe, "fall into your own sword": you make a plea for dualism here and then you get it done. The point I wanted to make is very simple: the majority decides and I implement it, whatever it is. Everyone should. I'd like to give that wisdom to anyone who sits here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u222	Thank you. There's one more question, so you're gonna stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u223	It was a special plea, but that also fits Mr Bosma. I had one more question. You say, "Don't let a brat send you in the reeds." I don't want to do that either. I had asked a very specific question about the House of Representatives. I think that's the organization's engine block and how we can operate here. It is also one of the important roles of the Chamber. You didn't say anything about that in your letter. I would like to ask you, through the President, what is needed there and what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u224	I am very happy about that, because everyone always thinks that the President of the Chamber has only one thing to do, and that is a little hammering. But it's not. The President of the Chamber directs the Registrar and directs our engine room, as Mrs Leijten mentioned today. There are 800 people working for us. So it's a really big organization. I'm very happy with how it works. A few years ago, we set something in motion in the Bureau, the ABD process, because the official organisation was incredibly dusted and destroyed. The official organisation has been brought up to date and strengthened. There has also been a reasonable degree of turnover and people are in new places. I'm very, very satisfied with the way it works, taken by the bank. I also hear from new people that they are very satisfied with the service, especially with new groups, which is always difficult. I note that the parliamentary surveys are perfectly supervised by the officials. I find that really unbelievable, because those are very, very heavy jobs. I think the welcome of the new Members is going very well. The same goes for the restaurants, the Registry and FEZ, which ensures that we get our money every month. But it applies to the entire organization. I'm actually very happy about that. What always has to be done, but I think that goes well, too, are things like career development, ensuring that there is a perspective for people, that people have regular conversations with executives, that they can flow through, et cetera. I think it's going very well, but it needs to be closely monitored. We have a huge responsibility with 800 people, but mostly Modo is doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u225	Mr Bosma made a clear statement. I'm just missing an answer to my last question. You may not want to answer it at all, and you may. "No" is also an answer. But if you still want me to, I'd like an answer to that. Otherwise, I'd like the answer "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u226	I did not answer it because Mrs van der Plas said that if I answered there, she might vote for me. If I were to go along with that, that would be populism. If my party's against something, it is. But I'd be happy to answer that. It was about a good and a bad trait?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u227	A strong point and a weak point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u228	My strong point is that I'm always cheerful. In doing so, I ensure that every debate is relaxed, because there is enough misery in the world. Sometimes we talk about very serious things, but it can also be a bit loose. My worst trait is that I'm naturally quite chaotic, but with 800 employees behind me that's gonna be pretty good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u230	But do I have your vote now? You're an agricultural party, so if we're gonna do the cow business, I want to know, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u231	I walk back to my chair extra slowly to think a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u232	To keep it exciting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u233	However, I would like to say a few words about the interruption just now about the mosque which Mr Bosma was going to open on behalf of the House of Representatives. His answer to that was: the majority decided. I did sit down, but I'll come back anyway, because I think that's too easy an answer. We used to have Mr Donner in this Chamber. He said: if the majority of the House of Representatives wants to introduce Sharia, which is very antidemocratic legislation, as Mr Bosma is sure to do, I will do so. We are looking for someone who has principles in a President. I have, of course, recommended and supported Mr Bosma in my speech. It's gonna stay that way. However, on this point I would ask Mr Bosma to rediscover his backbone, keep his back straight and not import anti-democratic elements into our home of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u234	The answer is the same as just that the President speaks on behalf of the entire House of Representatives. That goes by majority. Then I'll do what the majority want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u235	I also asked Mrs Bergkamp, who said: the majority decides, I accept, and I will do so independently and impartially. But what if a minority has a relevant request, a request for a debate and a majority blocking it, including through all the new ways that have now been agreed? What role does a President have to play to make that sound of society sound here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u236	That is a very relevant question, because I just heard a lot of desires in Mrs Bergkamp's period. We all want 30 member debates. We also want a cube right now. We also say that there must be more time for legislation. That's what Mr. Wassenberg said. Mrs Bergkamp said that we need to plan it more broadly. At the same time we say: we do not want night debates, you know. So it's getting scarcer and scarcer. We all have new colleagues who are full of enthusiasm. So somewhere, it's gonna go wrong. The President has a discretionary power, let me put it this way, to get things right, because he has one-on-one contact with the Registry. He has to make sure that something comes out that at least does justice to the minorities. Look, if I am President later, I will ensure that DENK and BET1, who have already indicated that they will not vote for me, they will regret it very much. You owe it to your honor to do it this way. A comparison is made with oral Question Time. That's a black box. There's going to be 30, 40 applications, and there's going to be more and more applications. There's two or three coming out of that. This is done by the President and the Registrar and a number of other people. A number of things are weighed up, for example topicality. But if there are some less topical issues, then it is also simply 'that group should get some again' or 'that MP has something'. That kind of thing's all in on it. That is where the President has a certain ability to steer. A good President will bring that kind of minority noise to the fore. It's unmathematical. But you have to have a culture to ensure that, for example, an agricultural party gets the chance to speak, gets a debate, etc. So my story of dualism is always about the minority. Because what we now have, for example with the right to information, is that a majority can say: we do like the answers. But I think that a minority should be served by a President on such subjects. That will of course be very exciting; then you must have the courage to fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u237	I fully agree with that, but I am still not quite sure how Mr Bosma intends to do that. He wants to weigh it. He wants to make all the noises heard. Yeah, I bet you do. Take, for example, those laws, because Mr Bosma actually said it exactly as I said it in my term: if we do not deal with laws and do not adopt them, then we have the power. But Mr Bosma also knows that at the moment when the Tax Plan is flickered over the fence on Princess's Day, it was already agreed by the Chamber in March of that year how it will be handled. That's kind of weird. We don't even know what we're getting, but we already know how to treat it. So process is basically about content. How can we break that? Because whatever time we're in and whatever culture we're in, if the policy of ministries remains that they flicker it over the fence and think that the Chamber will cut it off, whether it can handle it or not, then I don't think we'll ever become a parliament with teeth or even the slightest claw.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u238	Yeah, exactly. No, that Tax Plan is an interesting example. I was allowed to preside over that. That's about what is it? Oh, yeah. 350 billion. That's about kilos of paper. Our spokesperson, Mr Van Dijck, whom I see sitting here now, is sitting in his office and there are piles and piles. That's what one spokesperson is for. Sometimes someone still has a good policy officer, but that's it! There are attempts from the Committee on Finance, but Mrs Leijten is a member of it and I am not a member of it to cut it to pieces at least, to ensure that it remains somewhat manageable and that you can also use it politically. That you can't just say "what does box 2 mean for group X?', But you can also do politics and say "the money flows there and there." I would say that this is something in which the committee should play a leading role; it should simply ring the bell and say that this is no longer feasible. And a President must have an eye for that. A President must say: this simply cannot be done, and he must then call the bell and take action. It must go to the Minister with the Finance Committee or whatever. He'll have to take action. It's not just a thing. The Tax Plan is an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u239	I do not think it is surprising that Mr Bosma is not aware of this, but this is what the Finance Committee has tried to do together: talk to the Minister about it; we do not want to do it anymore; commitments; motions; registrars. But I can't. You just said, if I'm gonna sit at the table at that formation, it's gonna have to be two, up to five pieces of paper. I can go a long way with that. The less boarded up, the more space there is for us as a whole Room. But shouldn't we just say, as far as I am concerned, 'Dear Ministries', 'Whichever President of the Chamber is going to be present', that your process should be adapted so that the representatives of the people can handle it properly'? Shouldn't we turn it around?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u240	Mrs Leijten is already going towards the method, but it is clear what the outcome should be. The outcome has to be that it's manageable. I have to think about the piles of papers that then lie in Mr Van Dijck's study. Then I feel sorry for him. The outcome must be that it is feasible and, above all, that we can have democratic control over it. It's about the whole rich budget. It's about billions and billions and billions that have incredible effects on ordinary citizens. We pretend to have democratic control over this. In practice, that's kind of skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u241	I have had the pleasure of taking part in a number of debates that Mr Bosma chaired. The same applies to Mrs Arib, Mrs Bergkamp and to you, Mrs Tellegen, so I do not yet have my papers checked, as some of us sometimes do. But I do have a question about Mr Bosma's letter and plea. He hopes to work on making the Chamber a lion again. That's what he said in his story. We have talked about the information position of the Chamber, about the leaks that were consistently and often discussed in succession and about withholding information. How does Mr. Bosma intend to show his teeth? How does he intend to stop that? After all, Mrs Arib has had a lot of work to do over the last four years. What can Mr Bosma actually do? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u242	To begin with: that I use the metaphor of lion and lamb is, of course, to bring in the voices of the Party for Animals. I think I've fairly indicated how to do that. That's a mentality. Then you just have to fight. I told you about the nuclear option, but that's actually the last resort. But you can just do that. You can just say it. Take the Tax Plan, which, of course, is a great example. I was allowed to preside over that. Let us say that this simply falls short of what we are doing, and we in the Chamber think that this is clearly being widely shared and that we do not have a good parliamentary survey. The President then has to go to the Finance Committee, or the President writes a letter to the Cabinet, or the President calls the Prime Minister. There are so many possibilities in the consultations before you throw atomic bombs. You just have to make it clear that if we don't turn things around, if we in the House of Representatives don't turn 180 degrees, we won't have any relevance at all. Then we can interrupt each other here and pretend we're a parliament, but we're not anymore. We just have to fight there. This means that you have to confront the cabinet very hard about these essential questions. Article 68 is the most important article in the Constitution for us as Second Chamber. To quote the Talmud: the rest is commentary. Article 68 is about everything, namely: what information do we get? We just have to fight for that. It's a very boring and tough fight, but we have to do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u243	I get that. Mr Bosma's words also sound like music to me, but at the same time that is the theory. If you look at the practice, the Prime Minister or any other minister will be bitten and say "sorry, sorry, sorry, it will never happen again," but three weeks later it's time again. At some point we stood here in the Chamber almost weekly at the interrupt microphone to expose this, but it didn't change. Why does Mr Bosma think he can change it? I hope so, and I also want to cooperate. We will have to do it together, but what is the precise role of Mr Bosma? How can he change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u244	The role is therefore simply to enter into consultation with all these gremia and to say: it is no longer possible; this is about the right of existence of the Second Chamber of the States-General. So you're gonna have to hit the drum all the time. I thought Mr Wassenberg also mentioned it in his contribution: many ministers have a hand in bringing all kinds of things to the fore. Then there are people in some television programme with reactions, so that has been invested for days by information departments, and then on Friday evening we get the documents from the Ministry: those new laws, those 87 pages that a spokesperson can read again, which are then 6-0 behind. In publicity, too, you are a fool as a Member of Parliament, because you do not know what it is about. But in publicity, it's been dumped a long time, and then you have to get that out of your mailbox at night, when you happen to be awake, and suddenly give a response for the Saturday newspapers, which have already been printed. I mean, that's totally unfair! That is a total insult to us as the Second Chamber of the States-General. You just have to fight that. I could mention the ministers who had a hand with that. You just have to get down there and say, "My friend, this is happening for the second time and by the way "You just have to apply mafia practices." You're gonna have another law coming from you soon, huh? You just have to play hardball, 'cause they're playing hardball with us, too. Take everything that happened in that scout's gate. I mean, all those things in Ollongren's pieces show that they have total, but also total disrespect for the House of Representatives and that they just say "I do know what; we just make him President of the Chamber" or "there's something else that has to happen to that Omtzigt." It's total, total, total disrespect to us. We simply have to put Mafia practices against that. Is that a nice closure, Mr. Chairman, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u245	I think so. Thank you very much, Mr Bosma. The request is to suspend the sitting for two minutes before we listen to Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u246	I give the floor to Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all colleagues for their contributions and their questions. I don't have any long introductions, and I don't have any cubes. I'll start by saying something that's really close to my heart. Then I'll go into the questions you've asked. Someone asked me yesterday in the hallway: 'You have worked as President here for five years. You've done very well. There's satisfaction and so on. But it's a long letter. How is that possible? Couldn't it have been shorter?" I have to tell you that I have done so knowingly, because I consider the presidency to be a very special and honorable post. Even though you've done well, I think you should just earn it. You have to get the Chamber into your plans and your ideas, but you also have to convince her that you can be the best President of the Chamber and that it is not natural that if you do it well, you should also succeed next time. I can also tell you that I haven't called anyone, not even my own group chairman. That's how I've always done it. I did so on my own and sometimes against the advice of my own group not to do so. History also shows that the best Presidents of the Chamber are the Presidents of the Chamber who are a bit difficult, independent and autonomous, and who are going to stand in front of the Chamber. These are the Presidents of the Chamber who are not going to stand in front of a party and are not an extension of anything. The presidency should never, ever, be part of any formation negotiations, whether I am or not. Having said that, I would like to stress that you are the one who decides today who your President may be. Mrs van der Plas has already appointed it: it is a great good and great achievement that the Chamber elects someone from among itself. When we talk about dualism, I hope that will become clear today when it comes to the Presidency. Fortunately, all MPs can vote anonymously in writing without burden. This process of free choice must not be allowed to be taken away from the Chamber. I also got the question: why do you want it again, if you've already done it with verve and so on? I have, of course, thought very carefully about this. I reported again because I have also seen the progress of MPs over the past period. There are few long-term MPs. The collective memory hasn't improved. We have seen that after the elections we have 17 political groups, with ten new group chairmen. Last week, fortunately in a beautiful and dignified way, we were able to say goodbye to 69 colleagues. We also have new MPs. I feel it as a responsibility and duty to use the experiences I have for the new Chamber. These are turbulent times and people are insecure. The corona crisis has many consequences for our voters. Everything we do here is seen by civilians. Everything's being followed. A good President of the Chamber, whoever it becomes, is crucial for the standing of the Chamber, for confidence in politics. We cannot afford mistakes and experiments. That is why I believe that the Chamber should elect the best President, who contributes to the prestige of and confidence in politics. In my letter I wrote a number of things about the information position of the Chamber, which I also mentioned last time. Mr Bishop asked for this too. The information position of the Chamber is a great concern of all of us, in the previous period, before and now. I do not agree with everyone who says that the Chamber is weak. I think we have a strong parliament. I also compare it with other parliaments, where I often went to work for Corona. That even applies to the House of Commons, which everyone is looking at. I believe that we are much and much better equipped and that the Constitution gives Members of Parliament a lot of rights. We must not lose sight of that. Despite the fact that everyone regards the provision of information to the Chamber as crucial, that the Cabinet believes that it is included in the Constitution, that it is included in the Parliamentary Survey Act and that even Wob requests can be allowed, the Chamber does not always receive correct, complete and timely information. That's a big problem. Mr Van Baarle has asked what I have done about this. I can imagine him asking that. I've been working so hard to do that. I have done so publicly, so in interviews, but also in sharp letters, annoying letters, vicious letters. That's what I did in talks with the Prime Minister. That's what I've done with the executives involved. In fact, it has sometimes happened that in the late evening a ruler was told what the plans are while the Chamber does not know them. I really picked up the phone early in the morning to say that this cannot be done and that the Chamber should be the first to be informed. I'll keep doing that. I can do a great deal about it if the cabinet fails to provide information to the Chamber. I have, and I will continue to do so. In the end, only the Chamber can sanction that, not the President. I can never tell the cabinet "I don't think you're working; you have to go home" or whatever. That sanction can only be applied by the Court. It is up to the Chamber to impose a penalty on that. What I do, of course, do is say that I have discussed this with Members of Parliament a number of times: if a piece is too late and there is a general consultation, then you simply should not have that general consultation, because you need time to prepare your documents properly. But that too is difficult, because a lot of citizens see that it is planned and that there will be a debate, and everyone wants to follow that debate. As has already been mentioned by my colleagues, I have also said to Members of Parliament: if, for example, they do not answer written questions without explanation within the deadlines, they simply come to oral Question Time and then they have to explain. I do that every time I ask the oral questions. If there are unanswered questions, Members of Parliament will have the opportunity to report them to the oral questions. So I'm doing everything I can. If there are any more things you think the President should do something extra there, I will do it with love.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u248	Thank you for the answer given by Mrs Arib on this point. With appreciation for all the steps you have mentioned, you are talking about vicious letters and vicious conversations, sometimes in the direction of the government, and I also believe that you have done so, without prejudice to the fact that this point has, of course, remained a frustration over the past period. A lot of things are late, sometimes even a few moments for a debate. So I am just looking for what facts, agreements or improvements in this area you, as President, can take into account. What do you say: on these points have I really been able to improve the information position of the Chamber vis-à-vis the cabinet, has there been progress and have we been able to make agreements? Perhaps you could make that more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u249	Those letters did not affect all directors, but they did affect some of them. They have also really called a few times and apologized in the debate for the fact that it was too late or not complete. Now that it is formally settled and the Chamber makes a point of this every time, it would be very good to make agreements with the next cabinet, to make it really clear that the Chamber wants and enforces an important role in it. If I may be your President, I would like the informant, I do not know which informant we have; it is now Tjeenk Willink, but it may also be someone else who is also sending a letter on behalf of the Chamber in which the position of the Chamber is enshrined in the negotiations, including in the coalition agreement. Then I will also come to the next point, which you have asked a lot of questions about. But otherwise we will remain... You were not in the Chamber at the time, but I know how Mr Omtzigt, but also Mr Azarkan, Mrs Leijten and other colleagues in the scheme asked for information every time. The Constitution states that MPs are entitled to information, and not only when they request it; the government must actively inform the Chamber. We just need to agree on that, preferably in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u250	There were indeed many Members of Parliament who had concerns in this area, and you are quite right to point that out. Once again, I appreciate the efforts you have made. But that is without prejudice to the fact that things continued to go wrong. I am a little looking for an answer to the question: how could it be that, despite so many Members of Parliament and also you in the direction of the government 'this is going wrong', things continued to go wrong? What was that all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u251	The Chamber is ultimately the one that says: we do not accept it if you send a plan to the Chamber that is insufficient or too late. In the end, that's up to the Chamber, to the majority. The President does not have the power to send a minister home or anything. That is what the majority really does; that is how it works in democracy. In fact, I have seen lately, last week, but also... that the Chamber has increased together against the way in which the Chamber has been informed, but also against the way in which it has dealt with Mr Omtzigt. Well, those are steps that I think the cabinet cannot just ignore, no matter what cabinet it becomes. But maybe you have an idea how I should do it. You can say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u252	Do you really have a supplementary question on this? Otherwise, I would like Mrs Arib to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u253	Finally, on this point. When it comes to the suggestions, of course I do have them. But, of course, it is primarily about what you would consider desirable as a candidate. Let us leave the past in that sense: you are a candidate for a new period and you indicate that you consider it desirable that a letter should be sent from the Chamber and from you to make agreements with the government on this matter. Can I ask you, then, if you could specify more specifically what these agreements should include as far as you are concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u254	There's a lot of ways to do that. The example of corona has been mentioned, in my opinion by Mr Van Haga, but also by other colleagues. That's what I've often been worried about behind the scenes. I said the pieces should be in the Chamber. It must be clear to new rulers that sending documents to the Chamber in good time should simply be heard. It must be clear that it is about correct and complete information, not half-information in a letter, which says that there will be another letter, which will then contain an announcement of a subsequent letter, while there is simply a debate planned. Then you will have plenty of time to prepare for that and you will have all the pieces. For example, we also have examples of painting away. In the case of confidential documents, it is also a problem that there is information, but that it becomes confidential and the sender ultimately determines it. That is a problem for many Members of Parliament: what is confidential and what is not confidential? And if you get something confidential to access, you can't do anything with it. But that, too, is something that I think the Chamber itself is ultimately about. Of course, I want to fight for that with you. I'll take it on board too, because it's important that you're as President-in-Office of the Council. A question from Mrs Aukje de Vries was also: do you dare to fight? That's what I showed you. I'm not always grateful for that. You mentioned a few articles that are also related to this. It means you just have to stand in front of the Chamber, you can't always make friends and some don't like you. But that's part of the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u255	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u256	That part is about my good side, but I'll let it come back at the end. What is also connected with this, of course, is dualism. Mr Wassenberg and almost all other colleagues have appointed how important that is. The example of the careful handling of legislation was also mentioned. I fully agree with that. We have also been able to see this or let me put it this way: it is not always aware that there are all kinds of laws... For we have dealt with many laws relating to corona that had to go through the Chamber with steam and boiling water, because there is simply a crisis situation. However, I do find it worrying that less and less attention should be paid to legislation. With seventeen groups, it is incredibly important to make room for that. We are auditors, but we also have co-legislative tasks. When it comes to legislation, citizens' laws are crucial. If a citizen is not satisfied with something and goes to court, then the judge looks not only at the law, but also at the Acts. All the political groups must contribute to these acts from their electorate. I note that small groups have been less involved in legislation lately. That also has to do with the delusion of the day. If there is a debate that has a lot of media attention, I have sixteen speakers, but if it is legislation, then there are four or five. So I sympathise with Mr Wassenberg. If it were up to me, that is also in line with the Van der Staaij working group, which gives the committees an important role, which I think is very good, because these debates are equal and fully-fledged, we should make much more room for legislation here. And of course we do. Legislation is always a priority, legislation belongs here. It is also true what Mr Wassenberg says: when a law is dealt with in a committee, you have limited speaking time. Anyway, that's also a majority in the end. If that's what the majority want with each other, we can do it. That brings me to Mrs Van der Plas' question, which is my ideal week. Well, I don't know what to say about what my ideal week should be under the current circumstances. Legislation is very important, but it is also important to make room for topical issues that concern citizens. Of course, I know that there are differences of opinion. For example, we wiped the agenda once a day in connection with the bankruptcy of a hospital. Then Mr Bishop was allowed to replace me. He's been sitting in that chair all day. That was an important subject that everyone was talking about. Then it is also important for Parliament to give its opinion. So there must also be room for a topical subject that concerns everyone. The Chamber should also make room for that. Then it is also about how dualistic we must be. The role of MPs is also important. I think it is incredibly important that we have seen this with our colleague, Mr Omtzigt, that there should be room for Members of Parliament within their own groups, even if one is in the coalition. I'm not saying you have to distance yourself, because I know exactly how that works as a PvdA we've been in the coalition too, but there has to be a little room to be critical of what coalition parties are doing. Mr Voordewind kept a story here last time about how difficult it was for him, for example, when he was working incredibly hard for the children's pardon. That was agreed upon and it was quite difficult for him. I recognize that, too. I think that in view of Mr Bosman's report on unprecedented injustice and his report and the fact that many Members of Parliament are complaining about it, it is very important that there should be room for that within the political groups. Dualism is also important if MPs would be less inclined to regard membership as a kind of political internship to a subsequent post. A lot of Members of Parliament do their job and want to be recognizable to their supporters, but we also see that the pressure is enormous to leave after a period, for example. There are even MPs who left in the first period. That is why it is incredibly important to take Parliament's membership seriously. Mr Eerdmans and Mr Van Haga also said that it is important to stop after two periods, as is the case in business. I am not in favour of that. I have never made it a secret that MPs should have the space to develop, to grow in their role as MPs, as representatives of the people. I see that with MPs who are here a little longer. For example, Mr Omtzigt is here for 16 years. I would also like to mention Mr Leijten and Mr Azarkan, who has not been here for a very long time, but who has also been active in this. It is important, however, that colleagues have so much experience, that they are very independent and critical and that they record for their supporters. That's not easy. That's what you need to learn. It just takes time. So I've really gotten into this, and I've also made it public, and I've been annoyed by the fact that MPs have to move forward after four years or eight years, for the next generation. That kind of management in the public sector, I'm not in favour of that. And I also notice that it is incredibly important to know procedures, to know rules. And I know you've all been given the Rules of Procedure, but I know what that was like for me as a Member of Parliament: that I forgot it again as I read it. Until, for example, I asked oral questions myself. Then they said, yes, but there are three waiting for you. Then I thought, "How does that work?" That's how you remember it. And that goes with time; that's not something you can take at once. And then the new groups also have a problem, because they have nothing to fall back on. For example, at the PvdA or the VVD they have employees who have been with us for a long time, there are always two or three older colleagues who can help. But as a new group you don't have that, so you also need support for that, but also time to learn it. So if Members of Parliament are in the Chamber a little longer, I consider that to be a positive thing, so I say. Let me see if I've said anything. I see Mr Eerdmans. I'll take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u257	I hear Mrs Arib say a number of things about what the groups can do differently, about what Members of Parliament can do differently. I asked you the question: what else would you do? Over the past five years, are there things you say: I would actually do differently; I have learned from that and I have to do so in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u258	At this point or in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u259	Actually, just in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u260	Yes, of course. Look, I think Mrs Van der Plas has also said that colleagues sometimes feel that they are being cut off. The order of business is important. You should just keep an eye on them, too. I see Mr Eerdmans recognizes that. That's what you chose me for. My predecessor, Gerdi Verbeet, has always given me the advice, and I keep repeating that: as President you need three things: the clock, the Rules of Procedure and a good mood. And with the latter, it's not always good - let's leave it at that. But if you want to be liked by everyone as President, you have a problem. So, one time, I'm on the hook with Mr Baudet, the other time with Gijs van Dijk. And yes, Mrs. Kuik complains about it, too, that's true. You can't be with everyone... And you have to be honest, even in terms of time. And that is... Maybe I should try to hide that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u261	I can very well imagine that it is very difficult to deal with that. Sometimes you have to put that away, too. Just the anonymous, the anonymous sources. That was before our time, before we were here. That sounds really annoying to me, which actually seems very annoying to me. This has been said on various sides, even by fellow candidate Bosma. But how do you deal with that? I haven't been able to verify that myself. Have you tried to reach those people, or those group chairmen, for where these sources come from, in case it is not outside the Chamber? I assume you want something with that. Or do you say, no, those are anonymous sources, which I leave beside me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u262	You did indeed ask that question, and that was because of the RTL article. I would just like to say one thing, namely that for me 150 Members of Parliament are equal. And not just for me, but in the Constitution. The Constitution actually makes everyone equal, and it does. I often consult with the group chairmen, for example for support during Corona, which, incidentally, has not always been a success. So I do that for the sake of acceptance and because I can't call everyone. However, I am never going to discuss matters such as: gosh, there are 100 thirty Members' debates and do you not think that some should be deleted? No, that's up to the MPs. Then I will approach those Members of Parliament, with the request: you have about eight debates, think again, because the agenda is full. Then there's the question about RTL. That was just a terrible piece. A number of colleagues have also asked how to ensure that the House of Representatives becomes a safe environment. Yes, I would also like it to be a safe environment for me, for you, for all of us. Unfortunately, that is not always the case and there is still anonymous gossip. I've been really annoyed by that, too. It's anonymous, which is really bad, because sometimes you start to think: which of those people I'm meeting with could that be? I'm just saying, honestly, that's not nice. That's what I think it's all about. I have to make a lot of calls. The move has already been mentioned. I'm standing up for the room. If the Chamber has to move and the conditions are not met for Members of Parliament to be able to do their work there safely and in the same way as here, then I am going to protest. I'm not gonna do that on my own. The Presidium has always supported me. So that's what I'm doing on behalf of the Bureau. It is only the President who has to deal with them if there are any blows. Well, so did I. Eventually, it's up to the Chamber. The Chamber has now said we're moving. Then that's what we're gonna do. We are now working on the preparations, thanks to the official organisation that is working incredibly hard on them, but I shall come back to that in a moment. As far as this unsafe environment is concerned, we also see that it is often used as a means of damaging colleagues. We also saw it with colleague Omtzigt. That was the case with me before. Fortunately, colleagues of mine have also distanced themselves from it and have recorded it for me. The best thing we can do is not to go along with that. One time it is me, the other time it is Mr Omtzigt and another time it is Mrs Bromet or someone else. So we need to be on our own alert. When it comes to recording for MPs, I have recently been incredibly committed to the physical safety of colleagues who are threatened, who are visited at home and so on. I also remind you of what happened at the Square where people just sit on you and yell at you. I have also been hard on this and put it into question. I have appealed to the Mayor of The Hague and made it clear to him: it is your role to ensure public order and security, including towards us. I'm gonna keep doing that. This concerns Mr Sjoerdsma, who has been put on the list of persona non grata by China. This applies not only to Dutch parliamentarians but also to European parliamentarians. I was the first to write a letter about it and later other colleagues followed. Then we wrote a letter together. So I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. Then I would like to move on to the issue of workload, a real and recurring problem, the combination of work and private life. I know it and I also speak to many colleagues about it. I have been asked how I can protect colleagues from this. I'll just say that we're doing it to ourselves a little bit. You have also been able to see yesterday in the order of business that colleagues simply want to debate, ask questions and table motions, preferably the same day. That pressure on Members of Parliament is very high, also on the outside, for example on Twitter: look at it, it has tabled that motion and the other is against it, so next time the other one will table another motion. The pressure is also high because of the lists that had to be compiled, because of the candidate committees who wanted to know what you've done. So we're gonna drive each other a little crazy. I hope and believe that the proposals put forward by Mr Van der Staaij and the other members of that working group will enable us to find the balance. It has to go in order in committee meetings. When a report comes out, such a report should be on the committee's agenda. There should be a response to that and only then will there be a debate. We should not ask for a debate here every day in response to every report. With the new method proposed by the Van der Staaij Committee and supported by the whole Chamber, we can start with this in the hope that we can find the balance. I think it's going well with the curfew. Since its introduction, Members of Parliament, apart from Thursday last week, are going home on time. Otherwise, you'll all have to have an employer's statement. That is also because we know that we must, of course, set a good example. Apart from last week, it's been fine all this time. I think it's very good to be a little careful with ourselves. It's up to me, too. Of course, I would also prefer that we should end at 11 p.m. It is even stated in the Rules of Procedure, but almost no one abides by it. I'm glad to see that the new Chamber is different in this. I hope it works. Then I'll come to the official organization. It is incredibly nice that the new colleagues are complimenting the officials. That's something we should be proud of. The new MPs are well escorted. Experienced clerks gave them a bit of guidance in the procedures and in what they should all do here. Mrs Den Haan indicated that she was satisfied with that. It's my experience that people work here with great pleasure. They're incredibly loyal and involved. They work hard, too. We ask a lot of our employees, so I can tell you, and they are always ready for us. It's just incredibly special to be supported that way. I'm incredibly proud of that. However, the organisation has been asked to be professionalised. In particular, D66 is on the line of professionalizing. We are. There is a motion tabled by Mrs Neppérus at the time of the estimation. The estimate will always cover the functioning of the official organisation. In the motion, Mrs Neppérus asks for a professional civil service organisation. It's kind of a family business here. Everyone here feels at home. Professionalisation is very important, but we should not lose this feeling either. How do you make sure it's professional, when it's not a ministry here? We don't work with hierarchical lines, we don't have sgs and dgs and policy departments. Anyone can call a commission clerk or anyone else. We keep that accessibility and low-threshold in it. All services have been recalibrated. It's a strange word, but it stands for reorganized. The services have all been involved in this. They have all indicated without any difficulty what their good sides are, what else could be. That's very good to see. Everything's actually finished. A few weeks ago, the last Bureau of Legislation or the Registry Plenair was evaluated. Again, there has always been excellent cooperation. There has been talk of enlargement. When I became President last time, I felt the same way. The Registry Plenair Bureau of Legislation has been extended. I find it difficult to say as President that the Analysis and Research Service should have more official support or that another service should have more. It is very important to always do enlargement when it is on the agenda, but then we really should discuss what is needed in the assessment. Then we'll do it. I have never resisted extending the support of the Chamber. I was critical at one point. I believe that the enlargement that will then take place should benefit individual support for Members of Parliament. Enlargement should not be used for other purposes. That's what I said at the time, but I never resisted enlargement. In fact, I think it is very important that Members of Parliament are well supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u263	Following the Öztürk motion, it was then a Bureau recommendation to investigate it. At that time, the Bureau's reply, indeed expressed by the President, was that we would advise against the motion, because it was looked at in the Bishop's motion; it was not necessary. But now it is true, for example, the Analysis and Research Service. It has already been recalled that there are a number of different parliamentary surveys which also require external hiring. But then Mrs Arib says that it should be discussed at the time of the estimate. This means that the Bureau, or you as President, does not take that initiative, but says that it must come from the Chamber. That is why I would like to hear a little more about Mrs Arib's role regarding the President's attitude to this sort of thing. It is the Remkes State Commission, it is the AWTI. There are so many different opinions that say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u264	No, that's definitely the case. DAO has come under my Presidency. It is about supporting Members of Parliament in the field of research and analysis. It was called KVKO. The point was that, for Members of Parliament, within a short period of time, for example, if there was a note about energy, people in the house would be ready. They'll be there for the committee. I still think so. There's 44 people working at DAO and they're doing great. I'm not saying I can't. I'm just saying it's okay to look at DAO. It may also be that more is needed, for example for the Justice Committee. Then we can indeed look at, for example, more support for DAO. If it is, then I'm happy to hear it and I'm happy to hear it. If it's on another property, I'll do it. I can tell you that democracy can also cost money. So that's not the problem I'm talking about. If it's true, we'll do it. I also said that it will be dealt with in the assessment. Here's what I'm worried about. This was also said with regard to transit, career guidance and so on. What struck me lately is that people who work here for a very long time do that because they are good and love the Chamber, but not because they make good money. The salaries are actually the maximum of what they can get, while the salaries in other places are different. That goes for the messengers. They get very low salaries, I tell you. That goes for security. I would say, therefore, that we are once again looking at whether these salaries are in line with the demands we make to the people. I've talked to the Warrior before, but I just left it, because of course you don't have to do it on your own. You have to examine that carefully and then you have to make a decision as a Presidium. Let's see what questions are left. Knowing you guys, you guys go to the microphone when I forget something. Then there is Mrs van der Plas' question. It was a good quality, wasn't it? That was the question? I've given it a lot of thought. My good trait is that I'm kind of forgiving after all. Sometimes the most weird things happen. It's no secret either, because everything I do here is visible. I must tell you that I said goodbye to Mr Öztürk in a very nice way. That was very pleasant. I don't have any resentment for that either. I thanked his wife and said she could take him. I told him I took good care of him for four years. If he calls me to ask me if I'm coming to Limburg for a cup of coffee or whatever, I'll do it with love. I've already talked about my less fine qualities. I'm a little impatient sometimes. You said that a President should not show anything at all. I can tell you that I cannot do that, and I will not promise it, because you can see from my face whether or not I am happy with something. If there are any questions I haven't answered, I'll let you know. I see Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u265	I would like to add one more good feature that I saw with you today. You can also be vulnerable, and I would like to compliment you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u266	That's sweet, thank you. There is a question from Mrs Simons and Mr Van Baarle about diversity. You shouldn't talk too much about diversity, I think, but you should just do that. If there's a vacancy, we'll see who needs it. Diversity in the Chamber is not only about women, men, ethnic origin or whatever, but also about education, background and life experience. A person with little education but a lot of life experience can also make important contributions to the Chamber. I call Remi Poppe "He was a port worker who made a huge contribution to our parliamentary history. Diversity is therefore wider, but certainly on the agenda when it comes to minorities, regardless of whether they are women, men or homosexuals. The Chamber is a reflection of society, and it certainly will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u267	Mr Van Baarle is not in space for a while, but I can imagine that he is just like Mrs Bergkamp... Ah, there he is again. Every time I think about him, he's behind me. I can imagine, Mr Van Baarle, that, as with Mrs Bergkamp, you are looking forward to the concrete implementation. I think that "diversity must be done and that regulates itself" in this Chamber is getting better, but inclusiveness is a different concept. This is, among other things, about how safe people are, how accessible a room or a meeting like this is, and I would like to have a little more clarification from Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u268	That certainly matters. By inclusivity, you may also mean people who are disabled. Fortunately, colleagues have also drawn attention to this. Otwin van Dijk was in a wheelchair and thanks to him we have such a walk there and the microphone is set up in a different way. The button on the doors is also there thanks to him, because those doors are almost impossible to open. With a button, we can open it now. I have made sure that we have gestures in the Chamber during important debates. That's really great. Every now and then I'm gonna check on them and see how they're doing when we have a big debate. We are. The building is not always accessible. There are monumental pieces in it that are hard to reach with an elevator. Other entrances are provided so that this building remains accessible. Now with the move and the renovation it is now or never to include that in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u269	I would like to thank Mrs Arib for this answer. I also had a question about something I raised myself. How do we translate what is happening here in such a way that it is not only possible for people at home, regardless of their level of education and background, to follow but also to be felt and thus also part of their reality and their involvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u270	I think it is incredibly important that Members of Parliament who have been elected should be able to represent their electorate and that as President I should give full room for that. Everyone has been chosen and people want to be able to recognize themselves in it. Giving space... what exactly did you mean by your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u271	I'll put my question a little better. I said that much of what is happening here, including the language used here, is not always accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u272	Yeah, exactly. That has changed incredibly, apart from the website, but of course there is something to notice. Debate Direct is a really great invention. That's what our people in the Stenographic Service do, but also other services. That's exceptional. Not all parliaments have that. I also said last time that I think we should involve a lot more people from outside in what we are doing. That's what committees do. They sometimes ask for ideas through social media. Mrs. Bromet started it. She asked if people had any questions for the President of the Chamber. There was also the question: who is your mother, who is your father? The committees are supported in this. Corona has left a few things lying around. We've got the child questioning. That's the most beautiful thing I'm allowed to chair. All rulers, the Prime Minister and everyone, are happy to come to Question Time. If there are oral questions, they say, "Do you have to?" They'd have a problem with that. But as soon as Question Time starts, they're all here, even though you didn't invite them, and Box K is completely full. I also organized a Saturday outside child questioning for which anyone could register. That's when civilians were sitting here. We had a really great day with a tour and a debate. I believe that this should be done much better, through access to the media and our means of communication, but also through groups. Parliament belongs to all of us. I hope we can pick that up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u273	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we support the call for diversity and representativeness to be understood in a broad sense, thus respecting all the elements of representativeness and diversity. I would like to ask how Mrs Arib looks back on her past term as President and what achievements she can provide us with in terms of promoting that representativeness and diversity. I am really looking for concrete results, such as representation in the Chambers, not only as we would say in the catering and security sector, but in the broadest sense. Could you give me some results on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u274	Yeah, that's definitely the case. I don't have them now. Every time the estimate is made, it is responsible for what our personnel policy looks like. I think we've got 43% women. I'll take a look, something like that. It's more like "in executive positions." It's true what you're saying, and that's what I said myself. We know that security and cleaning are sectors where people with different ethnic backgrounds are overrepresented. In executives, that's less, but we did start it. I hope that in my opinion I have already sent all the figures to the Chamber. It's not a reflection. As far as women are concerned, but if you're referring to ethnic origin, that's what we started with, but it's not the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u275	With emphasis on the fact that we really think it should be in width. Zooming in on that point about ethnicity and migration background: can you be more concrete about what the results have been then? How many different influxes has there been when it comes to the more leading positions in the organisation of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u276	This has certainly been done in the management positions, but I do not want to mention certain services and people's names. In the end, it is important that we reflect. It shouldn't matter where you come from, what your color is, and so on. That's my basic attitude. The same goes for the Chamber. We shouldn't all be alike either. I do not think that is right, not even for decision-making, because you need ideas, visions and experiences from different angles. Only then do you have a good decision, because there are many angles. The same applies to the official organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u277	Very briefly. I'd like to go to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u278	Mr President, very briefly. Just to make it clear, I wasn't looking for specific names or anything like that. I also understand very well that you can't give it to me. But perhaps there is a time when we could get further percentages or figures on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u279	Yeah, it's fine. I think we've committed to that. So that's definitely gonna be on the estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u280	Mrs. Arib just indicated she's standing in front of the MPs. I would like to say, personally, that I have missed that a little bit in the time when we all had to travel here before the quorum. From the area where I live, where there were relatively few infections, I had to travel to an area where there were a lot of infections. I don't think that's a good thing. You have to set an example anyway, but besides that you were also put away as someone who was too lazy to come here. That was absolutely not the case, because you could also do a lot of work at home. I do not want to look back on that too much, but I am curious to see what Mrs Arib has learned from it, also towards the future. I believe that in these situations too, a President should stand before the Members of Parliament, because it also has a lot of consequences for your private situation if you have to travel to areas with high levels of contamination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u281	This is on my list of things I wanted to say about. Corona hit us all, especially the MPs. I know that at the beginning, when that outbreak occurred, particularly in Brabant, we said that we should make agreements between ourselves about pairing. Fortunately, everyone has been involved in this. With all the limitations due to corona, we have nevertheless created the opportunity to continue to control the government and to allow the parliament to function. Not under the same conditions as before; there was a lot of discussion about that too. I'll be right back to the digital quorum. You can remember that I asked the cabinet: we are dealing with corona now, you indicate which legislative proposals should be dealt with as a matter of urgency, so that we can take this into account in the planning process. I remember when we were given a list of 83 legislative proposals, all of which had to be dealt with by June of last year. There were six so-called urgent proposals, but they had not even been tabled. Then I had to say again to the cabinet: no, it is really about what is already ready, and you must also indicate which proposals are urgent. That too was a fight with the cabinet. Then the digital quorum. I know that decision was very annoying. Of course we can learn a lot from that. This is not only true of the digital quorum. Your colleague, Mr Van Gent, tabled a motion in the course of the debate on Mr Van der Staaij's report calling for a look back and for lessons to be learned. Our Rules of Procedure give us enough opportunities to respond to such situations, but the digital quorum was discussed with the Upper House. The speed at which that was done was the most necessary, because there was a kind of state of emergency. If we do it, it has to be done carefully. A state of emergency is not something that we, me and the First Chamber, decide, but something that we, as Chambers, decide or agree with the government. In a state of emergency you go to some kind of emergency facility and corona was a problem, but not in the sense that as a parliament you had to call for a state of emergency. That was just a difference of opinion and ultimately it's up to the Chamber. I know that the Chamber, at least part of the Chamber, wanted a digital quorum. I also find it incredibly important to find out, because there is also state law... I mean, I can find all kinds of things, but there are state lawyers who say that it is impossible, because the Constitution says that MPs should be present because of those 76 and because of the individual rights of MPs to request a roll-call vote. Again, it doesn't deserve a beauty prize. Let me put it this way, but there's a lot we can learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u282	Mrs Arib thinks I am entirely on her side when it comes to making parliamentary work continue. You have to! But it is striking that it is possible at the First Chamber. I think that Mrs Arib is rather easy to ignore the private consequences that this can have for people, also for what they can ultimately do. After all, they have to drive to a fireplace, just to provide a quorum. It's really not that people are too lazy, but it also means something for whom you can see afterwards. I think it is too easy to put that aside and I find it inexplicable that it can be done in the First Chamber and not in the Second Chamber. I would like Mrs Arib to reflect on this towards the future and that she does consider that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u283	I just said it's incredibly important to look back at how that went. Everything I decided then was decided in consultation with the Chamber. I don't decide on my own whether the parliament should continue or stop. In the end, this decision was taken together with the chairmen of the political groups in the Bureau. That debate took place here. It was an annoying debate, and I understand exactly what you mean. But it is incredibly important, because can we decide on a digital quorum if there is no crisis or an overcrowded situation? You'll get something like this incredibly politicized. That's also the environment we're in. We need to look at this in a good way, including state law. At some point it is indeed... Mr Dassen also spoke about digital voting, which is in line with this. We even have a Digital Affairs Committee, and I think you can't avoid thinking about how we deal with digitisation. And then it's really incredibly important to include that point in that. But I never meant to say that it doesn't matter and you're too lazy or whatever if you don't come to the Chamber right now. I have never said anything about this in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u284	This is a lot about the rights and inconveniences of Members of Parliament, but I have just started my term with what I have called the'machine room'. Those are the people behind us. Mrs Arib has already described that there has been a huge reorganisation. I myself was talking about the move that is coming and about the two parliamentary surveys that are going to run. There's even a third coming. How are we doing? Is that okay? I have tried to ask the others a little, but you are, of course, the current President. What's your look on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u285	I'm incredibly happy. It's going incredibly well. I find it incredibly extraordinary that our official organisation and our staff, whether it's our messengers you see running to clean everything, our security guards or our clerks are so flexible and always willing to help us. Of course, if there really is a problem somewhere... you are the ones dealing daily with commissioners or, for example, in committees of inquiry, with our staff. If there's a signal somewhere that they're overworked... I know we've had a survey on homework... that people are incredibly missing the building. People have indicated that they find it very strange to work remotely. These are things that the Registrar and the other member of the board are working on incredibly hard. But I'm just proud of our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u286	I think we share that pride. Members of parliament who have been sworn in again will have that, too. New MPs are going to experience it or have already experienced it. I can say that the report of unprecedented injustice never came without our support. We got information keilate and it had to be delivered very quickly. That's really been a lot of work. It's really amazing what's going on out there. But I sometimes see it sanding too. Of course, it's hard to talk about it in public, but that's why I did it a little meta. How are we doing? I am referring to the reorganisation we have had, to the challenge we face, to the move, to the additional pressure from parliamentary surveys and to the new Chamber with many people whom we must also help on the way? Is it a 7? Is it an 8? Then I'm not talking about the individual people. They're loyal and serviced. They're our bike. We're passers-by. We have to make sure that engine works when we get out of here. Is that engine running? Does that engine need lubrication? How does the President, the former President, possibly see the future President... Yes, how do you say that? I'm a little confused, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u287	Doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u288	It's complicated, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u289	How exactly does Mrs Arib see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u290	We demand a lot from our people. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's It has never been the case that, in my opinion, there are two surveys coming up. It'll seize all our clerks. Surveys should be supported by top lawyers and top executives; we are all top. But we'll just clear it. It also costs a lot of money. We will. The Warrior spends an incredible amount of time in that. If clerks are removed from committees, they will simply be replaced. Sometimes we ask people to come and work with us temporarily. We'd like to keep them, too. That's what we do. You ask me what grade I give. It may not be entirely objective, but I'm just giving you an A. Maybe I should go round up. Finally, I would like to say to the new groups that it is incredibly important to work together. Of course, everyone has their own political opinion and, of course, it is important for parties to distinguish themselves from each other, but sometimes you can just work together at committee level, for example by asking factual questions together. As MP I did a train with Agnes Kant, another colleague of GroenLinks and Eveline Herfkens: if one started and was no longer allowed to interrupt, then the other went on. A question has also been asked about directors, about training on interruptions. It is incredibly important that the questions are clear and that the directors are speaking. I am sometimes not only unkind to you, but very often also to the rulers. That's something that belongs to the presidency. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am doing my best. I did my best. With your support, I can move mountains, but it's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u291	Cold chills.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u292	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u293	Cold chills!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u294	Thank you. Thank you to the three candidates for their answer. I know that there are two Members, two political groups, who have prepared a motion which they would like to table in second term. I would suggest that we allow that. It is Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Baarle. With your agreement, I would now like to invite these two Members to table their motion. Then we will vote on these two motions directly by group. Then we have had that and we can proceed to the vote ourselves. Mr Van Haga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u295	Mr. Chairman. I only have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that power and counterpower must be in balance in parliamentary democracy;]] [[invites the Chamber to elect preferably a President of the Chamber from one of the opposition parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35777-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u296	I do not need to ask you any more whether the submission is supported, but Mr Markuszower is still old school and was already sitting with his hand up. Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A word of thanks to the candidates for the comprehensive answer and the long sitting. There were a lot of questions; I heard there were 250. So thank you for the answers. I hope that Mr Bosma has now managed to deal with the disappointment that we will not support him. I can see that's half that. Good luck with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u298	I'd like to ask you to file your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u299	That's what I'm gonna do. But I thought it was appropriate to say a word of thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u300	Yeah, but I... well, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u301	Mr. Chairman. I'll take my motion right away. One task that we would like to give to the President is about diversity. On this motion, which was co-signed by Mr Sneller of D66 and Mrs Simons on behalf of BET1. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the House of Representatives of all and everyone should be representative of the various societies;]] [[declares that the President shall take further steps in promoting inclusiveness, diversity and representativeness of the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle, Mr Sneller, Mr Simons and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35777-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u302	Thank you. It is a motion that could also be tabled at the time of the estimation, but we are putting it to the vote now, so we have just had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u303	I shall suspend for a few moments and then we can put these two motions to the vote.
