ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Shopping Time Act concerning the protection of shopkeepers from unilateral changes in opening hours. It concerns legislation. So you might think, "Well, then we'll go all out tonight," but I'll also look at the clock. It is 20.10 a.m. and there are nine spokesmen who have all signed up for more than two or three minutes. So as far as the management of expectations tonight is concerned, I'll give you two interruptions, but you don't have to use them if you don't feel an enormous urge to do so. I think it makes sense to introduce a little self-discipline tonight, because otherwise we will be sitting here really late tonight and I do not think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u2	So I would like to give Mr Aartsen of the VVD the floor as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u3	Mr President, I will promise you that I will not break loose today, but I would like to start with a wonderful documentary from a few months ago at NPO when he appreciated the Other Times programme. That was a documentary on the reform of the Shopping Times Act in the 1990s. It was introduced in 1996. I promised you I wouldn't tell you how old I was then, but at least I was young enough not to remember what was going on then. I was not only surprised by the images of a very young Annemarie Jorritsma who also emerged in them, but especially about the other images I saw there. I saw people rushing down from work under a rack to be able to go into a grocery store just before six o'clock to get something to eat soon for that evening, because the supermarkets then closed their doors at six o'clock. I also saw the footage of traffic jams from supermarket carts on Saturday afternoons. Because if you didn't get your groceries on Saturday and you had to work through the week, that was also the period when more and more ladies started working. Otherwise, you wouldn't have any food that week. That also shows me that shopping time is moving along with the changes in society, this time because more and more women started working and they found out that if you both work it is very difficult to do groceries. If by law it is decided that the place should remain closed, it is quite annoying. That was an extremely heavy subject at the time. I hope that the proposal now before us is a little less loaded. I think that is the case. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, entrepreneurs must decide whether or not to open them. That is a liberal freedom. I think that's what this law is still trying to do. Municipalities have the possibility in the Shopping Times Act to allow entrepreneurs to open up on Sundays and public holidays as well as after the times set out in the Shopping Times Act, but that only allows them to open up. As far as we are concerned, it is up to entrepreneurs themselves to decide whether they are opening up. Mr. Chairman. This will get us to the core of the law. We think it's a wise decision that you decide for yourself whether to open. Furthermore, I would like to mention the freedom of entrepreneurs to determine between themselves. One important point here is mutual agreement on whether or not they want to make collective agreements with each other on when they open up. I think that often also strengthens a neighbourhood center or a shopping street. But once again, the starting point for these agreements is that there is freedom of contract and that there is mutual consent. We know of a number of cases in which one of the parties can unilaterally choose to adjust the agreements, forcing shopkeepers to open the doors at a time when they do not want to. That is what this proposal is based on. As far as we are concerned, that is an undesirable situation. I think it is wise that this law should take care of that now. Mr. Chairman. This situation does not, of course, apply when a new agreement is concluded between the two parties. Then they are two entrepreneurs who, in freedom of contract, decide to accept or not to accept many of the conditions they have agreed with each other on the basis of mutual consent. I think that is a very important point. I do have a specific concern about this. The SME test shows that, in particular, small retailers and self-employed people fear that there will soon be A locations, especially in the larger cities, where it is likely to be explicitly included in the rental contracts in order to open or not open at certain times. This is often difficult for entrepreneurs. This threatens to create the risk that small retailers will no longer be able to establish themselves in an A location, because they have to agree to certain conditions. I'd like to express that concern. The Secretary of State states that she is confident that this is not going to happen, because diversification is important. But I think this is so important that I want to keep my finger on the wrist here. Again, my concern is that this will make shopping streets a kind of unitary sausage with large chains instead of having smaller family businesses or a specialty shop. As far as we are concerned, this is also part of a lively and liveable shopping street. That is why we have tabled an amendment to ask the Cabinet to evaluate this and to look specifically at these issues and how we can ensure that our shopping streets remain vibrant, lively and diverse in the future. Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u4	Thank you. Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u5	An evaluation is always nice, but if Mr Aartsen's concern, which I think is well founded, can be taken away by making the law better, wouldn't that be the right option to use today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u6	No, because if you want to solve this, you're gonna have to ban these mutual agreements. At least you'll have to create the opportunity to stop making it. And then it can shoot the other way. I am talking about A-locations in large cities, but if you look at shopping centres in neighbouring and rural municipalities, for example, you will say: if we make agreements that do not open one store on one Sunday and the other store on another Sunday, if we manage to pool it through collective agreements and make it very clear on which Sunday in the month all shops are open and on which Sundays they are all closed, then we will get stronger with each other. I think that should be the freedom of entrepreneurs. That's the balance, I think, that's over there right now. We will then opt for this freedom of contract, but I would like to express my concern that this may pose a problem in specific locations. That's why I think it's okay to keep the finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u7	I am always sympathetic to an evaluation, but if you are already seriously concerned about this, I think that Mr Aartsen is right to say that this is awaiting us, and you must analyse whether this bill is the right instrument for the problem that we are identifying. I am very fond of the Stoffer amendment, as I will say later. I had that in preparation myself when I found out that it had already been submitted; that's how things sometimes go. Shouldn't we just stand by the shopkeeper's side and say, "You can always decide to be closed without getting a fine?" That can be because of Sunday rest because of a conviction or because you want to have time for your family. It may also have to do with other reasons, that you just have to close for a week because you have to do something else. Just for that little shopkeeper, that would be very nice. Then, according to our analysis, this bill is not the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u8	That freedom exists in this bill, so that freedom is there. Also for existing shopkeepers in existing places, in combination with rental protection and the good offer according to the legal definition, that freedom exists at the moment. The moment you enter into new agreements, I think it is a core for both entrepreneurs... so I do not think it is so polar that we say: we are either in front of the shopkeepers or the rest. No, it's a joint agreement with mutual consent. I am open to a solution for the A-locations, as long as it does not affect, for example, the neighbourhood centres and the neighbourhoods, where they become stronger from such a mutual agreement. If there are other suggestions for that... It is in general my passion to see how you can make up for it in shopping streets, but I also see disadvantages of specifically banning it. That's why I won't go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u9	I am going to go through with this, because I sense a certain... Fear is not the right word, but at least I sense a concern from Mr Aartsen: what kind of oil stain would it be if we were to do what Mrs Leijten proposes? When I see the law, it's about a few percent of the entrepreneurs. Mr Aartsen says that you can never force existing cases and so on, but let's say that there will be a new furniture boulevard. There's an entrepreneur who says he likes it, but the contract says you have to be open on Sundays. The entrepreneur says, "I can't match that with my conscience." If I go through Mr Aartsen's line, it is impossible for such an entrepreneur to participate in it. From my background, I find that very difficult, because then you cannot participate in a certain part of society. As a liberal, you should not want that either, I ask Mr Aartsen. Shouldn't you want that freedom and guarantee it? I am going to amend the amendment I tabled, because I am going to table it with Mrs Leijten. I'm not forcing her to do that right now; that's what we agreed on together. If we take that amendment for that small percentage, we'll solve it. Whether you are a reformator, a socialist or a liberal, it offers a certain guarantee of freedom for everyone. My question is how Mr Aartsen looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u10	I believe that the freedom of choice to make joint agreements with common sense, once again, is also a core of freedom. I find it difficult to say as a government: that freedom to make an appointment together, you are not allowed on a number of parts. Let us of course say: you mention this example, but there are many different kinds of agreements we make with each other. The balance "I'm going to sit there or not" consists of a number of different elements. I find it difficult, once again, to act as a government and say: you are allowed to make agreements on this part and not on this part. I would say, please, leave that to those two entrepreneurs, with mutual agreement. If someone really doesn't want to, he doesn't have to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u11	We agree with each other on that last point. I could imagine you saying that it would be difficult if it applied to three quarters of society, but it is a few percent, 7% of the total number of entrepreneurs. That's also in the explanatory memorandum to the law somewhere. I therefore ask Mr Aartsen once again. If you look at that, also from liberal ideas, you would still have that freedom... It is not a whole furniture boulevard, but perhaps one store in it, and at such an A-location for one shop, in an extreme case two. That doesn't hurt the whole concept and it does give every entrepreneur in this country the opportunity to participate and participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u12	Mr Stoffer put forward the argument that this is a small number of entrepreneurs. I can make the same argument that it is very strange for me as a liberal that as a government you are going to say to such a very small group of entrepreneurs: we are banning entrepreneurs from making mutual agreements. I think that's a step too far. Again, it's up to both of them to make appointments. Any entrepreneur can say with his full mind before signing a contract that he does or does not do things. This applies to the opening of Sundays, which applies to the colour of the canopy, which applies to the rental prices and to the periods of notice. Such a contract consists of many different parameters on which agreements are made. Let us leave that with the entrepreneurs, please, and let us not interfere in this as a government and as MPs. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u13	Thank you. I call Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a small, hardworking entrepreneur, you will get a fine after fine on the mat because on Sunday you prefer to keep the doors of your shop closed, for personal reasons or because it is too big a task to have to be open seven days a week. It happened to Martin Haijkens, owner of a bicycle shop, and René Bolhuis, florist, both based in shopping center Paddepoel in Groningen. Martin and René and many other shopkeepers in the country ended up in the Sunday shopping war. They were faced with a forced adjustment of their opening hours. They had to open on Sundays or were fined otherwise. Mr. Chairman. This is not the fair economy advocated by the CDA, in which small entrepreneurs, or the middle class, as we call them, are protected with a vulnerable position against the power of the large chains or large real estate parties. René Segers-Hoogendoorn, council member Rotterdam, expressed it strikingly in an opinion in the AD. "Shoppers must already fight against webshops and against the big chains. The pressure to be almost always open also pushes them into the defensive." He's right. Our 24-hour economy is triggering a rat race that the small entrepreneur, the independent shopkeeper, is the victim of. The image of the shopkeeper who turns the sign "open" to "closed" between noon to do an errand, to eat with the family or to keep a siesta, threatens to disappear from our society, because for that you could just get a fine. A fine for taking a break or rest day. Mr. Chairman. Is that where we want to end up, making the human size smaller and smaller? The CDA doesn't think so. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State has come up with this bill, which strengthens the position of independent shopkeepers and does not require a shopkeeper to open or close his shop at times when he has not expressly agreed to it. The CDA therefore wholeheartedly supports this bill and hopes that it will enter into force soon, rather yesterday than today. Does the Secretary of State have any idea when it will take place? In the written round, we asked for attention to be paid to the risk of massive opening hours including penalty provisions being imposed prior to the entry into force of the bill. The Secretary of State writes that he does not have any signals, nor does he say that he expects this to happen. Is this image still the same? The bill has no retroactive effect. Can the Secretary of State explain again why a limited retroactive effect is not chosen, for example for one year? Mr. Chairman. Behind this bill lies another issue: the viability of the shopping areas in our villages and cities. It's partly under pressure from the corona crisis. Collaboration between entrepreneurs and coordination of opening hours is a way of increasing the attractiveness of shopping areas and preventing long-term vacancy, but fortunately not the only way, as we read in the answers of the Secretary of State. With the Palmand/Amhaouch motion from September last year, an amount of 100 million has been activated for the restructuring of shopping areas. Recently we received a contour letter from the Secretary of State on how these resources are used. As a CDA, we support the main thrust of that letter, but we do wonder why the amount is divided over four years, while the problems are quite urgent today. The question to the Secretary of State is: should we not look at the content of these projects and should we not stick too strictly to those four years? Is the Secretary of State prepared to think with us about that? Finally, Mr President. This bill is for Martin, René and all the other SME entrepreneurs that keep our economy going day in day out. As far as I'm concerned, we're dedicating the bill to them. It is for an honest economy, in which you as an entrepreneur may be open but not open if you do not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u15	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group has always stood for more local freedom for shopkeepers to open their shop and for wider opportunities regarding opening hours, also because that fits in with what many people want. Mr Aartsen just described the examples from my childhood. If I look back at that now and tell my daughter that, she thinks I'm talking about a whole different era where you couldn't do an errand at night or at weekends. Mr. Chairman. It is not for nothing that the 1969 Shopping Times Act, as far as my group is concerned, is a purple crown jewel. It is significant, because for the first time the name "Shopping Time Act" was introduced. Before that, it was called the "Shopping Closing Act." I think that shows exactly the difference in approach. In 2013, the Shopping Times Act was extended by an initiative law of my colleague Kees Verhoeven and Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks, which allows shops to open on Sundays if they want to or at least get that space from municipalities. That is good, but "if they want to" is of course the core. The story becomes different when others decide unilaterally that you have to open up, because then freedom stops and then it becomes coercion. Previously, motions from SGP and D66 were adopted, which were generally opposed to each other on this dossier, but found each other at this point. This was a unilateral agreement. The Secretary of State has begun to do so. Then it is indeed about a mall where something is changed in the terms and conditions and you as an entrepreneur suddenly have to open up, which was not before. You didn't sign up for that, but you don't have an option. I understand the bill in such a way that, if that has happened to you in the past, you will get that freedom back from this law. In this sense, this is also a degree of retroactivity, I say to Mr Amhaouch. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, the Secretary of State says that you have to find a balance and that you want to leave room for entrepreneurs to make mutual agreements. I think that's a sensible starting point. This is precisely in the interest of our shopping malls and shopping streets to remain an attractive shopping area. Many entrepreneurs are already struggling enough with, for example, the big competition with web stores. They can make arrangements together to be as attractive a shopping area as possible. That freedom is important to me, too. Mr Aartsen also said this in a small debate on interruption. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions. The basic attitude is that I think what the Secretary of State is doing is a sensible balance. It does something about the one-sided compulsion and at the same time leaves room for parties to sign agreements with their full consciousness. But it can no longer be the case that with changing agreements from, for example, the shopkeepers' association, you are still forced to a one-sided adjustment that you do not want. I have three specific questions. The first concerns the extent of this problem. I keep looking a little bit, even when I read the documents, how often this problem, which I think is as undesirable as colleagues, actually occurs. I never really like to change a law when you don't have a bit of a feeling about the problem. But it's a real problem. Think of the examples mentioned by Mr Amhaouch and of a number of entrepreneurs who have been affected. So I'm okay with us doing it, but I'm gonna keep looking at the size. I also think it is important to be able to say something about such an evaluation that Mr Aartsen proposes. Then you know what the starting point is. So can there still be any mention of that? Then the second question: do I understand correctly that this bill is symmetrical? Is it about an adjustment? That could be forced opening, but that could also be forced closure? Have I understood the law technique correctly? Do I understand correctly that this is a symmetrical piece of law? At least that's how I judged the bill. I'd like a response. Finally. Does it ever occur to me that I do not have any indications of this, but I do think that it is a good time to check that an entrepreneur who would be allowed to open the rules of the municipality should close because of an appointment of, for example, a shopping center? That's actually the reverse of the situation. I'd find that undesirable, too. I think that this bill would, if I understand it correctly, provide a solution to that. But does this happen at all? I would therefore like to ask the same question. I have just seen the amendment on markets. I have read the answer, which stresses that it is a very different matter. I hope that the Secretary of State will go into the amendment quite extensively. In fact, I am curious about that, so that we can at least make it even clearer. I am not saying that I am in favour of it by definition, but that distinction between these two still needs to be clarified for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u17	There is a question from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u18	Yes. At least I had the impression that Mr Van Weyenberg was at the end of his speech, but of course I am not entirely sure. But I'm standing here now. In November 2018, colleague Verhoeven was there. In the meantime he has unfortunately left us in this Chamber; he is of course still here, but not here. On his initiative, we actually tabled a motion together in the context of this legislative proposal with the following operative part: 'calls on the government to ensure in the bill that shopkeepers are free to keep their shops closed on Sundays, regardless of their motive, both in the event of a new contract and in the event of an extension.' Look, we agree on this extension, I think: that's really well secured in this law. But this motion didn't just come about. We really did have a day on this to agree exactly on that text. And that new contract was very explicit for both of us a part that also belonged in it. That's exactly what I'm talking about. My question to Mr Van Weyenberg is whether he has the impression that this is now well secured in the legislative proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u19	By the way, the key word in that motion is "forced." That's the key word, that you're being imposed something you don't want. What is good about the bill as it is now, in my view, is that you can always choose to sign a contract or not. At the same time, you can decide not to sign a contract like this. Then you're not forced. But it can't be that you're getting all jammed up. In that sense, I think that what is now there is really looking for a good balance and putting an end to a situation where you can be confronted against your will with something that you can't really go. I know that you moved and so did my colleague Kees Verhoeven. It is also about the examples mentioned by Mr Amhaouch. What happened in Paddepoel in Groningen, I think, was the reason for the debate at which the motions were tabled. Does it also guarantee in practice the balance that we all aim to achieve? I also find the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Aartsen interesting, but I believe that the Secretary of State has found the right balance here, bearing in mind the motion's appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u20	So you can see that you can write the same lyrics, but still have different thoughts. Paddepoel and such examples also played a lot. There have been debates on this, even before my time in the Chamber. But there is also a very specific example from Amersfoort, I believe. In a new shopping mall a number of young entrepreneurs wanted to participate in the furniture industry. That didn't work, because the condition was that they had to open on Sundays. That's what they had to sign the contract for, so they could actually make the choice not to, but yes. I think Mr Van Weyenberg is right to ask how many cases there are. I don't think so much. It could just be more, but I don't think this is going to be very big in the Netherlands. So wouldn't we for that part of the entrepreneurs... It's not gonna be big, so there's not gonna be a huge oil spill. Would it not be a good thing if Mr Van Weyenberg were to think again and say: on that very little bit of that motion perhaps we did not ask each other very well, but I actually think it belongs in it? So my question is: give plenty of room to this motion and please support the amendment that Mrs Leijten and I have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u21	As for Mr Stoffer's appeal to think again: I always do that with love; I would not dare to say no to that. But in all honesty: I think that the coercion in this bill is well addressed. At a new mall, for example, I also think you can talk to each other. If it's one person, I think there's really something to talk about in a mall when they think about it: we really want that entrepreneur. You can do that in front. I would also say that restricting the freedom of the parties to agree on this would go a long way, as Mr Aartsen said. There are also risks for attractive shopping areas. So I think a good balance has now been found. Of course, I am going to listen with interest to the answers of the Secretary of State and to the response to your amendment, but I also have genuine concerns. It's hard enough to keep the physical shopping areas attractive, so I'm also a little worried about what you open differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u22	What, according to Mr Van Weyenberg, is the definition of an attractive shopping area? Maybe we can draw the next parallel? If you take the election of the most attractive shopping street or the most attractive shopping center, what are the elements on which it is won?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u23	I don't see... I think that's the core of it. There's no single winning formula here. It's different everywhere. That is also the essence of my answer to Mr Stoffer. I would like to leave that to shopkeepers among themselves, of course within the rules that the municipality has laid down, and not dictate from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u24	From the point of view of the shopkeeper, that is diversity: not just the same shopping street everywhere that moves you from any city to any municipality that we have everywhere with the big chains. Big chains that people can deploy and always be open. It's important that between that massive violence of mass and cash register you have small but fine, that's what's important. If small but fine indicates "we suffer from that mass and cash register prescribes the law for us," is Mr Van Weyenberg not to wake up: we do not want mass and cash register to determine what our shopping centers look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u25	I don't think mass and cash register are at all attractive shopping concepts. I see a lot of small and fine people who want to make agreements with each other at this time, with all the competition from, for example, the very large-scale web stores, by opening hours, to remain an attractive shopping area. You are now pretending to make room for openings to make it attractive is a choice for large chains. Yes, something would indeed go wrong in practice. But I just think that a lot of small and fine... We all know them. In our minds we now have exactly the shops in our own neighborhoods to which we are attached. I think they might also find it important to make sure that their shopping street remains attractive in their neighborhood. This really isn't the wish of a couple of big boys. It is precisely in the interest of a large number of small retailers, whether or not with a number of staff, to ensure that the shopping street in which they sit remains intact in the struggle with the big web stores. So I do not see Mrs Leijten's contradiction to that extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u26	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u27	I think this is about power and opposition: how do you stay up? Sometimes you just stay up as a small shopkeeper by saying: I'll close the appointments in my shop anyway and I have that freedom. If you are then faced with fines or with clauses, it is either swallowing and going under or leaving. So you also come to situations where diversity just disappears. In my view, the Stoffer amendment, which will soon become Stoffer/Leijten with a new number, is precisely that lock on that door: that you will not be covered by those fines and still be forced to leave. The freedom of choice that is laid down here is not actually choosing that balance of power that has gone out of control. I'm sorry to hear that, because the story of D66 is true. Only then you have to take the next step and say: that freedom is thus there without being fined, even though it is agreements you once said yes to, but you cannot keep up with when you have to implement them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u28	But here is the idea that basically these kinds of agreements are in the interest of large chains at the expense of small entrepreneurs. We have seen the examples in which it is done unilaterally. I am against that, and that is why I think this is a good bill. But I see a lot of small shopkeepers in shopkeeper's associations making sure that their mall, their neighborhood, that uniqueness stays intact. In a lot of the shopping streets where I come from, the big question now is how we can keep on taking the chances after corona that hopefully people will start to appreciate that store again close to those times and that they will stay open, just because we as a customer hopefully appreciate it and not automatically just, nothing to the effect that they also add something, go through the webstore for a little less and then just look at that local shopkeeper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u29	Thank you. Mr Stoffer of the SGP. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u30	Mr. Chairman. It's about forced opening of shops tonight. You'd rub your eyes out and you'd say, "That's the last thing we have to worry about when the time when shops were forced to close is just behind us." Shopkeepers were eager to receive customers again and to open their business further. At the SGP, we are very pleased that this can be done again, and I think that every colleague is. Is this now the time to take action against compulsory opening of shops? As far as I'm concerned, yes. Because it's corona time that has taught a lot of people lessons. People who calmed down because of the crisis found that better coordination between work and home is quite good. And people who had extra work due to the crisis think of people at the grocery store, think of the florist told me that it wasn't so good for themselves or their families to go on for seven times 24 hours. No one's gonna be able to keep that up. And once the temporary crisis restrictions have completely disappeared, there is a risk that the problem of forced opening will be fully restored. Let us therefore ensure that the lessons of corona do not fade away. Let us use these lessons to make the legislation as it is now a little bit better than it already is. Let's make sure that shopkeepers aren't fined or excluded anymore if they just want the usual day of rest in the week. Mr. Chairman. In order to assess this bill, it is good to review the system of the law. For the legislator, for social reasons, prohibits in principle the opening up of shops at certain times and on certain days. Take, for example, the time between 10:00 and 06:00. Then you don't have the problems Mr. Aartsen saw in his youth. With us in Elspeet that was a bit less. I think the shops can still close at 6:00 p.m. in the evening, but we don't, you know. But I think that between 10:00 and 6:00 p.m. there are few people who really need to go to the store again to combine that with their work. It is just a good thing that the starting point is that the shops are closed. The same applies to Sundays and national holidays. Of course, that means violating the freedom of entrepreneurs. But for society as a whole, we believe that it is a sensible choice. There is a need for order and protection of workers. Moreover, moments of rest must be arranged together, otherwise you will lose them. Is the government underlining this point of departure? And how has this principle of the law been taken into account when drafting the bill? In practice, municipalities have the freedom to make exceptions to the prohibition on opening shops. I guess you can look at that politically differently. And the effects in municipalities also show all kinds of differences. However, the SGP hopes that parties will at least find each other in the exclusion of coercion that may arise from the granting of exemptions by the government itself. Does the Secretary of State also consider that there is a particular responsibility for the employer here? Surely it is inconceivable that the exemption from the government which gives freedom to certain citizens is the cause of coercion on other citizens? The SGP believes that the legislative proposal can address this problem more clearly than it is now. I note that the broadly supported motion of SGP and D66 is not clearly reflected in the present legislative proposal. With what is now the Stoffer/Leijten amendment, we are proposing that this risk of coercion should be ruled out more effectively. At those days and times which are particularly protected by the legislator, coercion should be excluded. Mr. Chairman. The SGP wonders whether this bill will not lead to a new division and unequal treatment. In fact, the draft law protects shopkeepers with existing contracts from one-sided changes in opening hours. But shopkeepers or other entrepreneurs who want to get a spot in a shopping street, shopping center or furniture boulevard, can get it difficult. Can the government explain why this is a justified form of unequal treatment? And does it also promote the healthy development of the economy? The government writes that the negotiating position of shopkeepers in agreements on opening hours is outside the scope of the bill. But it is not satisfactory to pretend that this problem does not exist when the government recognises that the problem is there? Mr Aartsen has tabled an amendment which concerns the position of small retailers in A locations. Let me be clear: the SGP shares that concern, and it is certainly good to look into it in the evaluation. I'm very curious how the government looks at that. I am also curious whether the author, perhaps in the second term, and the government can already say something about the direction of what should happen if the evaluation indicates that it is indeed a problem. Perhaps even better is what Mrs Leijten suggested, to solve that right now. Isn't it much better to rule out this risk in advance in order to prevent landlords from closing their contracts further? Because the problem's been dragging for years. The first and only motion of my party colleague, Senator Holdijk, may well be that some of you remember him; he was sometimes called the most powerful man in the Netherlands ten years ago about exploring the possibilities to protect shopkeepers from coercion. That was in 2013. We do not want to run the risk that we will be years away again if we find that the bill did not offer sufficient protection. Let us adopt the amendment and then consider in the evaluation whether there is any reason to change things. Mr. Chairman. Finally, why are we working so hard? That's not a question I came up with, I might have done it, but it's the title of an essay by Govert Buijs on the economy in our Western world. In his view, this is an unhealthy economy that often focuses exclusively on money and profit, while people can add much more value to each other. Buijs therefore advocates an 'economic of joy'. That is a beautiful term and also an appealing thought. It also fits the biblical idea that the rest day saves us for all kinds of slavery, also in a modern jacket. True joy arises when we know ourselves depending on our good creator and take some rest with each other. This economy of joy also does justice to employers and workers, to large and small businesses, to humans and animals, to society as a whole, I dare say. Of course, as a government you cannot and should not want to fully enforce that, but we can draw some basic lines. That is why I say: let us use this bill to work on that economy of joy, in my view, a more sustainable economy than an economy that focuses only on money and profit. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u31	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u32	I have a question for Mr Stoffer. I get some apps from a best gentleman from Elburg every now and then and he calls himself the "Sunday Warrior." He wants the shops to open on Sundays. Of course that lies with the municipality itself, but today we have the debate about coercion. We don't want people forced to open up. How does Mr Stoffer look at it as coercion works the other way, so that you also do not oblige people to close? How do you see that towards the future? We're not gonna solve that today with this bill, but can you reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u33	Yes. I know Elburg pretty well. My ancestors, from a distant past, come from them, and I live in the neighboring municipality of Nunspeet. The couleur locale is there mostly that shops are closed on Sundays. That is also local competence in such areas. I imagine a single entrepreneur has a problem with that. I can very well imagine that he is also doing his best to fight for that. But yes, you can imagine that from my point of view I say: I like to live according to the ten commandments, as we see them in the Bible. There is also an explicit mention of Sunday. On the one hand as a day of God, but on the other hand also as a woman, I have mentioned it myself in an entrepreneurial circle, the most beautiful gift that God has given us. We can have the first day of the week off and only have to work for six days afterwards. I think that's good for everyone. So that piece of protection, that everyone has a nice quiet Sunday and also has the opportunity to go to church, is from my point of view something you should not only do in Elburg. I think you should do that all over the world!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u34	I agree with Mr Stoffer that we should not pursue the twenty-four seven economy. That's why we're in favour of this bill. But I can also imagine that there are entrepreneurs who, on a Sunday, especially in an area where recreation is high, can turn more revenue and then take a break on Friday or on a Saturday. Then the pursuit is still the same: the rest, from the rat race, but choose when you are not forced to close. But we're gonna set up a tree about that some other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u35	Thank you. Mr Graus also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u36	It's a bit of an extension. In Heerlen you have the Pancratius Church, the church of my city. There the churchgoers are always very happy when the cafés and shops are open, because after that they go shopping. Maybe Catholics are a little more generous and freer in that and enjoy it a little more. But I do think that Mr Amhaouch really has a point. There are, of course, people who work in whole dead environments during the week. They're glad they can go shopping on Sundays. They also consider that to be a hobby with their families. Some people don't want to be stuck with their families all Sunday. So I think you should be able to give those people the joy of being able to shop. So I totally agree with you, but people who want to go to church don't have to go to those shops either. You don't have to. Surely all that can exist side by side at this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u37	I do not think it is a problem in the Netherlands. Sls you want to shop, I think you have more places and cities where you can do that than you can do that. My ideal would be for everyone to think from their inner conviction: how wonderful it is not to have to work on Sundays, to be allowed to relax and go to church. I know that's not what everyone thinks. Those who don't think that yet, I can recommend it to them, including you, Mr. Graus, I think they have enough opportunity to go shopping anywhere in the Netherlands or have a drink and so on. But my ideal is elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u38	I don't even need it. I'm telling you that honestly. So I like that serene Sunday rest. I hope to live in such a village in my old age where none of that is, but I am not speaking on my own behalf. We are speaking on behalf of a large part of the population. I find the compulsion to open what you say, even to people in your constituency, shameful. You can't do that. I support you in that, too. I'll keep doing that. I've been doing that all along. You shouldn't force people, as you said, to open the store, but you shouldn't force consumers not to be able to shop. You're more or less going to forbid them from doing that. That's kind of a compulsion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u39	No, I believe that a problem is now being put on the table which does not exist at all and which we are not talking about at the moment. We are talking here about the situation in which almost everything is open and we are looking for the individual to see whether they cannot be forced to do so. If you're talking about my ideal, I'd like to see it differently. But it's not. That's also something that's in a democracy. So if you say that there is still a problem in a single municipality, Elburg, Nunspeet and so on, it will be solved in a lot of municipalities from your point of view, but in my view it is always getting worse. But it's a matter of local democracy. So I would say: if anyone has anything to do with that, go to the city council in Elburg or Nunspeet or anywhere else and convince those people. You can talk to me whatever you want, but I'm not going over it. My ideal is different. I don't think it's a problem at the moment either, because anyone can do anything they want anywhere, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u40	Your answer has led to more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u41	Yes, I apologize, Mr. Chairman! I'd been a little limited in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u42	They even got up at the same time! I don't know who to give the floor to first either. Look at each other. Mr Van Weyenberg is excited. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u43	Mr Stoffer and I sometimes subdue from a different angle. Only, I always make a call and always have a great deal of faith in Mr Stoffer's consistency. I was just having a little trouble with that. We now have a bill on something that doesn't exist. I don't think it's a jiffy or a sledgehammer either, but it happens every now and then. Although it only happens occasionally, the Secretary of State says: "I don't know how often it occurs, but I just find it undesirable. So I solve that, because I don't want an urge." My group and, in my view, the whole Chamber say: yes, that is sensible. Then there are questions from Mr Amhaouch about urge in the other direction. Then I hear those people have to go shopping somewhere else. But I didn't just say that the gentleman who has a problem in Paddepoel has to find another mall. I said, no, that's urge, and I'm against it. I would have expected some balance from Mr Stoffer in the reasoning. It's slightly selective, you might think. Does Mr Stoffer understand that that impression has arisen with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u44	I get it. My ideal cannot be seen in the Netherlands, but this is a problem that is being created. It's like I'm a councilman in Elburg. I haven't and never have been. So I would say: I know that there is a lot of discussion going on there, so go there. But my ideal would be to keep that Sunday empty, to go to church, to walk for a while, to spend with the family. Yeah, there are people who say, "I'd rather not. Well, of course you're not obliged to spend your time with the family, but I can understand why Mr Van Weyenberg says that's a little inconsistent. I can't get it all together either. Heaven on earth is not here, not for me, and I do not think for you, but we are not looking for what Mr Amhaouch put forward in this legislative proposal. But the problem I see is completely on the other side of society. I kind of like interrupting, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u45	I see it, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u46	... but I think it's a problem that doesn't exist at all, at least not widely in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u47	I think it is very fair that Mr Stoffer simply admits that he is inconsistent. That's what's good for him. Only, I find this really complicated, because for a lot of people shopping on Sundays or in the evenings... Consider it if we hadn't extended the Shopping Times Act in '96. I know your party was against that at the time, and she wasn't the only one. Suppose we were still in that world Mr. Aartsen described. But if we are talking about urge and compulsion and you are asking for our support, and you are quite right to do so for the one-sided approach of shopkeepers who cannot sign and yet are forced by an adjustment of the shopkeeper's association, for example, then I still find it complicated that on other people's argument that they are being restricted is your answer: go shopping somewhere else. We are not going to agree on this, but I am still particularly pleased with that law from '96 and the initiative law from 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u48	Mr Aartsen also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u49	At the same point, because that consistency slipped through at some point. I was a councilman myself, although not in Elburg, but somewhere else. Now I'm sitting here in the Chamber, and the beauty of being a people's representative is that on behalf of the collective, you get the responsibility to meet things up. Do I really understand Mr Stoffer that he finds it difficult for him to meet collectively in this case, in this case, a smaller collective of shopkeepers who need to be open at certain times, and that he thinks it is desirable for the collective to agree that other people should not be open? Isn't that a very special argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u50	Well, I think this is something that plays in local politics, but I would like to point out to Mr Aartsen that the same inconsistency is present within the VVD. In 2010 we had elections in Nunspeet. Then in the local newspaper the headline was: VVD wants the shops open on Sundays. It was a young, new, fresh VVD. He jumped out of his skin because he didn't want to. Turns out it wasn't about Nunspeet, it was about Harderwijk. That was another VVD. But his supporters in Nunspeet also said: we like it; if we want something, we will look in Zwolle, but in Nunspeet we prefer to keep the place closed. That was the VVD, too. So that inconsistency is even in the VVD. I'm just gonna praise them for that. But I understand the dilemma that is being put down here, both from D66 and from the PVV as well as from the VVD. As far as I am concerned, I have also admitted that it is quite something which, if you put it all together objectively, is a bit of a twist, but I think we should stick to the problem before us today, namely that everything can be opened up and that you should avoid forcing people to do that last bit. If there is a problem in Elburg or another place, that some municipality where the shops are still closed, which by the way are not really shopping areas but more areas where you shop...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u51	Mr. Stoffer, you're hitting all over the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u52	Am I too tall?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u53	Yeah, kind of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u54	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah! I thought I'd take my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u55	Yeah, I can tell. Mr. Aartsen...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u56	You want to go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u57	Oh, no. Absolutely not, but there are still a lot of speakers who would also like to say something sensible on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u58	Let me then express the vain hope that once Mr Stoffer and his passion for collective regulation, in the sense that people are not forced by the collective to open up, I may receive a proposal to collectively arrange for everyone to be allowed to open up whenever he or she so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u59	I think Mr Aartsen should have some dreams tonight, because I estimate that in my life period, especially in my political period, it will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u60	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I remember quite well the handling of the laws on closing down times. That was in 1996. I was sitting in the back of the room then, not as a Member of Parliament, but as an associate. Then it indeed had the character of a... I would not say of a "school struggle," but it was one of the iconic issues in our political culture between the confessional part of the Chamber and the somewhat liberal part of the Chamber. Later on, there was also the dimension of whether or not you are in favour of consumerism. Well well, that has eventually led to a proper adjustment and an approach where you take much more account of the context you are talking about and which therefore assumes that you should not settle this in the same way for the whole of the Netherlands. This approach has actually gained in importance in recent years. I am speaking on behalf of the Labour Party, by the way. Mr Gijs van Dijk has asked me to speak on behalf of the Labour Party as well. That's what I'm gonna say. The context in which retailers operate has become increasingly diverse in the Netherlands. What may not have been sufficiently appointed, and I am going to do so today, is that the retail mode is in a particularly bad position. That was already true for corona. The really large real estate parties investing in retail areas in the Netherlands saw only twelve cities that were interesting enough to invest in at all, because they had an area of sufficient size, with sufficient A-locations. This was before Corona. Because of corona, but also because of the even stronger efforts of online shopping, that position has only deteriorated further. This means that we must be careful with regulations that are imposed on the whole of the Netherlands. That is why I believe that the balance that has been sought in the legislative proposal, which has our support and that of the Labour Party, is right. I do have some hesitation about Mr Stoffer's amendment. I understand his position very well. I can see why he is taking that step, but I think that there are a number of risks to this, which tends to worsen the position of several retailers in the Netherlands. That happens at a time when they need each other more than ever to fight the digital 24/7 consumerism we have in the Netherlands. That is the real struggle. Of course, there is also a battle between the large retail chains and the smaller retail chains, but together they also have an interest. That is why we believe that mutual agreements should be possible. It then goes a long way to excluding certain things from it in advance. However, we do believe that this should not lead to coercion, fines and such things if you have not chosen to do so. That's what this law does. I have sympathy, also for Mr Stoffer's final words, with regard to his view that life is about much more than money, consumerism, market and that there are quite different values, such as broad prosperity. But also there we see that for many people who enjoy their free time, it is part of enjoying going to a boulevard with each other on weekends. It's not my preference, I'll admit that immediately, but there's a lot of people who do that. That whole concept often revolves around being open on the weekends because it attracts most people. Unfortunately, you can also see this in the shrinking shopping areas and the A-locations we still have. Ultimately, the question is how many people visit these places and then the question of which store sits there and gets customers. That is also a common interest. I understand the value of Sunday rest, and I understand the value of people who don't want something from their conscience, but it can't be that we let it go in every way. There are other interests in society as well. The collective interest of the retail sector is also at stake. It's gonna take more than this bill. I also think that we should not only look from an economic perspective, but that we should look at our inner cities at all. We have a huge housing shortage. Some of the existing square meters of shopping locations will still have to be converted to residential locations because that volume of retail unfortunately no longer fits into the society we now have. Anyway, those are questions for another debate. In short, I don't have a lot of questions. I am convinced of the usefulness of this law. We're gonna support the law, too. I understand that others still have questions about how big the problem is. I do not think that is so relevant, because there is a problem. It happened, and it shouldn't be able to happen that way anymore. That's what this law does. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u62	Thank you. I call the Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u63	Thank you, Mr President. The Shopping Times Act is there to protect the shopkeeper from the ink staining of the sometimes unstoppable 24-hour economy. My group stands for an economy that works for people, an economy that works for people, indeed for people who work for the economy, for economic growth, for even higher bonuses for managers in the top and for an even higher position of an owner who might be in the Quote 500. However, we are unable to bring the economy that works for people closer. Everything and everyone seems to be increasingly, always and everywhere, at the service of restless consumers and hunted managers; 24/7 on, without rest and without space. Freedom, you say? You mean a slave economy: an economy with less and less respect for peace and rest. How else can it be explained that, after a losing corona year for their employees in the collective agreement negotiations, supermarkets not only want to meet half the wage requirement, but also want to have the irregularity bonus completed, because Sunday has become a day like all other days for them? Of course, it's up to the supermarkets and the trade unions to get out, but I do have an opinion on this. I therefore call on the supermarkets to conduct the negotiations with respect for their employees and for the Shopping Time Act. Does the Secretary of State agree to this call? After all, the Shopping Times Act protects not only the shopkeepers, but also the hardworking shop employees. The Shopping Times Act puts a protective fence around the night hours, the holidays and the Sunday. It protects the space for rest. The change in the law that's going on here makes that protection better, especially for the little shopkeeper. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to our unsavory merchants. After the debate on fiberglass in committee, this is again the second subject on which I, supported by experience from the city council, address the debate with the State Secretary. What does the case want? The Hague City Council once intended to open the Hague Market on Sundays. That was very sensitive and divided on the market. A large part of the entrepreneurs did not want to open the booth on Sunday, their only day off in the week. But that would be at the expense of their so-called count days, or in other words, of their holiday days. Now this very not very good plan finally went into the trash, because of objections from the neighborhood. But still: this case alone shows that our merchants deserve protection. However, this change of law is aimed at shopkeepers, but not at merchants. The Christian Union does not think that is right. Markets with a fixed place of employment do fall within the scope of the Shopping Time Act. Then why are they not covered by this particular legislative amendment? The note following the report shows that this is the case, according to the State Secretary, because the relationship between market operator and municipality is different from the relationship between shopkeeper and landlord or franchiser. My question is whether it is. I see something else in practice. A penalty for not opening because of a unilateral change in opening hours by a property owner is not quite different from the deduction of counting days due to a unilateral change in opening hours by a municipality? I have therefore tabled an amendment along with Mr Leijten on this point. Mr. Chairman. The fact that this legislative amendment is not an unnecessary luxury was mentioned by previous speakers. The "Paddpoel-motie" is now a concept, and not without reason. After all, we are talking about unequal negotiating positions. This inequality has allowed a unilateral adjustment of opening hours to be enforced. This affects the freedom of entrepreneurs. The Christian Union attaches importance to that freedom, because it offers the peace and space for entrepreneurs to undertake in a way that suits them. The corona crisis has once again exposed this precarious negotiating position for the shopkeeper. The government explicitly called on landlords to handle the rent of shopping premises fairly and fairly. That didn't always go well. For example, there are landlords who have used a bankruptcy application as a means of coercion to make rent payments. This shows that there can indeed be disproportionate compulsion or urge. The Christian Union is afraid that this can also happen in order to secure agreement with shopping times. This will put pressure on the freedom of entrepreneurs. The Secretary of State writes that the Civil Code provides sufficient protection against coercion or urge. At the same time, the corona crisis sheds new light on the negotiating position of retailers. My questions to the Secretary of State are: does she still think that the Civil Code provides adequate protection and does she have an insight into unequal negotiating positions and their consequences? And if she doesn't, does she see a way to get a look at that? Mr. Chairman. The core we are talking about today is the space for rest in our mad 24-hour economy; sometimes insane. Is collective rest still sufficiently guaranteed? In collective bargaining, irregularities and Sunday allowances are increasingly a topic of discussion. Collective moments of rest are no longer sacred, but can suddenly be used as change. The Christian Union is concerned about this. Two weeks ago, the CNV concluded that more than one in five workers are facing a burn-out and that 36% of workers are facing an increasing workload. In October of last year, that was only 29%: 36% compared with 29% less than a year ago. Mr. Chairman. Look at the government's advice in corona time. These were given on the unsavory site of the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America. If you're hungry, have a carrot. Walk around in the evening. Make something with lentils for once. Put a fish through the pasta. Just a selection of VWS tips to stay healthy. But what wasn't in between: do you have stress, have a rest day, turn off your mail notifications outside of work time and put your phone aside? How does the Secretary of State look at protecting the value of rest for entrepreneurs, for workers and for citizens? If the government watches over a fish through the pasta and something with lentils, why not about moments, days of rest in a 24-hour economy? Mr. Chairman. I don't want to send a command to rest here. However, I am in favour of the value of rest, for resting points in the jolly rhythm of society and economy. The wise Preacher said it already: better is one hand filled with rest than both fists full of whining and chasing wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u64	These words lead to a question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u65	First of all, I would like to express my appreciation of this. At the same time, I want to show him and ourselves a mirror. Because like no other, we are here as co-legislators about rules and the protection of people's health. But if we look at our own behavior, the way in which we are constantly in the battle with each other and with rulers, then there is little to be seen in practice. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u66	That is a simple question, but the answer is not simple. But Mr Van der Lee, my colleague, is right that I was the first to preach against myself in that sense. And second of all, that actually requires a good conversation with each other at the bar. I cannot just give the answer to this, except that, of course, we are going to debate something in the newspaper, because of profiling drive, control drive, regulation drive. So in short, we're also in the middle of chasing each other. So, yes, there's something in our human nature that's pushing us further and further, and that's exactly why I've made a plea here for the value of peace, for government, as legislator, to put that value of rest in the old trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u67	That seems a nice and sufficient answer. I call Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u68	Mr. Chairman. We have to work to live, and we don't live to work. Of course, it's a truth like a cow. But that's something we have to remember a lot. And at the same time, we don't live to consume. We're not a gay economist, and we're not a gay consumer either. As a human being, we are all we have to be. And we also need rest. And I would like to say to Mr Van der Lee: the problem of burn-outs here in the House of Representatives is not necessarily in motions that we submit or debates that we have, but perhaps in recognition and answers to parliamentary questions that we have been asking for for a long time. In any case, what is recognised here, in this debate, is the power and counterpower already under way by the entrepreneurs from Paddepoel, who acted with local city council members, including the SP, and certainly from home from Christian parties. And not because we say "the rest day must by definition be Sunday rest day," but because we know that we are more than someone who lives to work; so that we do not live to work, but work to live. And that we are also more than just people who have to chase it, that consume even more. That there is more than the economy and economic prosperity. And that the slight liberality about it, of "oh, ooh, now everything is open, and we have achieved freedom" is clapping back in our face, now that we see that our society is indeed going to burn-outs, to people who are under stress of everything, because finding peace is becoming so much more difficult. This bill only does a tiny bit in restoring power and counterpower in the sense of being able to undertake or be lived by consumers who, supposedly, would want anything. It's okay to question the 24-hour economy. It's definitely not conservative either. Everything that was said that the 24-hour economy would bring us, and certainly also the flexibility of the labour market, we now come back to that. All possible achievements are now also seen as something in which we can end up dead. And that has nothing to do with religion. That has to do with humanism, with human measure. And I am sorry that we are discussing a bill here today that does not restore that power and counterpower. The large-scale retailer, not only but certainly also real estate, especially in the A-locations, forces smaller entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs who simply think in principle that there is or should be a rest day, for whatever reason, to adapt. And about the voluntary meeting with the shopkeeper's association: if there are two big chains in that shopkeeper's association that keep the rest on the ropes, because they say "if you don't go with our terms, we're gone and this whole shopping area is gone," then you have to swallow or choke. And this isn't theoretical. This happens, even in a semi-large city like Haarlem. That is why my warm recommendations for the amendments I have co-tabled, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No I think it is a good idea to properly formulate the position of the shopkeeper and the market merchant, because we see that these 24-hour economy and the interests that are involved in it are setting up a kind of rat trap for all possible players, while the big profit-makers are free to participate in it. In the meantime, as humans, we are actually ground. And that the purpose of this bill is to formulate that position properly. In my view, the amendments make this even better. Mr President, that is what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u69	Thank you, Mrs Leijten. I call Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Between 2010 and 2012 we were tolerant partners. Then we in the First Chamber needed the support of the men's brothers of the SGP. For four years I had argued for the entrepreneur's right to self-determination, but then suddenly I had to turn. I remember my then colleague from D66, Boris van der Ham, stood up with a smile, because of course he went to the interrupting microphone to ask what was going on with me. Then I honestly explained that because of the support of the men's brothers we had to run in the First Chamber. I'm glad you don't have to now. I will certainly advise my group to vote in favour of both amendments, and certainly also in favour of the legislative proposal. We have actually made much more timely requests in this direction, but there was simply no support in the Chamber for it. I remember very well that even Mr Aptroot, who was sitting on behalf of the VVD in the blue seats, was really in favour of municipalities deciding that. We were already strongly opposed to this, because as an entrepreneur you will only end up in an SGP municipality and want to open up. Then you're just the scarf. It shouldn't be possible. We are really in favour of the right to self-determination, that is to say, for no compulsion, not even a compulsion for consumers not to be able to shop. We are truly in favour of absolute freedom. The amendments are also in line with that, so it is all in the right direction, including the legislative proposal. In any case, I am going to advise my group to vote in favour of all three... Excuse me? I can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u71	Mr Graus is having a little chat with the Secretary of State, a sort of souffleuse. I don't know what's being exchanged here, but Mrs. Leijten probably knows, so help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u72	Mr President, I was wondering: what is going on here? We know that the subjects at the back are generally the consultative subjects for the political groups. This is the professional cabinet, and not necessarily the advisory area for...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u73	State law is very exciting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u74	Exactly. Mrs Keijzer was also a member of the Chamber, but she is not part of the debate today. So I'm curious what was changed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u75	Now the Secretary of State has something to say. So I'm not going to allow that, because then the chaos is complete. Mr. Graus, you have the kind request to take the floor and finish, or whatever you were doing. But keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u76	I'm very curious about what the Secretary of State wanted to tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u77	No, you'll hear about that later!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u78	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u79	Were you finishing up, or was this a short intermezzo?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u80	No, I'll pass the stick on to the Honourable Member of the FarmerCitizen's Movement and I'll go back to my basket. A blessed evening, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u81	Thank you. I call Mrs van der Plas from BBB. Maybe you'd like to get some advice from Vak-K first, too? It's possible. It's all possible tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u82	No, I'm not...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u83	Or do you have your own contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u84	I've been watching this whole situation with a lot of entertainment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u85	You can finish tonight in first installment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u86	And thank you, of course, for the introduction of Mr Graus. I haven't seen that before, that a Member of Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u87	...that's how it was announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u88	So have a nice evening in every way! Economics or economists? Do we always have to want everything? Do we always have to be able to go anywhere? Should we join the 24-hour economy rat race? Black Friday, Cyber Monday, King's Day, Christmas Day, Easter Day, Pentecost Day, Ascension Day, every Sunday and nowadays even Christmas Day, Easter Day and Pentecost Day. Buy, buy, buy. Pay, pay, pay. Some people will say yes. But a lot of people will also say, "No." It is important for Dutch people in the countryside and in the city that they have moments to relax, moments for each other, for themselves and to enjoy their surroundings. We, consumers/citizens, can choose to do this. We don't want to do fun-shopping sometime? Fine, then we'll sit in the garden. But many, especially small entrepreneurs and their staff, cannot choose this. Actually, this is weird. Moments of rest also belong to entrepreneurs, without hanging in a cord or having to open because of contracts or no voting rights in large shopping centres because you have just too few square meters. This right to rest is under pressure because of the current implementation of the Shopping Times Act, especially for small and local entrepreneurs: the baker, the butcher, the vegetable farmer, the hairdresser around the corner, that little nice shop with all the nice brocantes stuff. And yes, that is the charm of our country, which can co-exist large and small. However, these small SMEs, often family businesses, feel the 24-hour economy breathing down their necks and cannot negotiate on an equal footing with landlords and others who want to set rules for shop opening hours. The time when the government kept shops closed against the will of shopkeepers, fortunately, lies in the past. These choices now lie with local communities. In particular, let us not allow these old restrictions to be replaced by a system that goes the other way. It is no improvement if government restrictions are replaced by semi-imposed openings due to landlords and shopkeepers' associations. Shopkeepers have to be able to choose for themselves. If shopkeepers can choose for themselves, we avoid situations such as in Paddepoel, Groningen, where a local shopkeeper did not want to open up and because of his contract was forced, under penalty of tens of thousands of euro's fine. Or shopkeepers got a fine because they had their shop closed for a moment to eat a sandwich in peace. In order to strike more balance in the relationship between shopkeepers and landlord, it is therefore self-evident for BBB to support this change of law. I am going to look at the amendments. I can't say anything about that right now. Finally. I would like to appeal to the Chamber and the Cabinet: please, let us first map out the possible consequences of new policies in the future. I find jobs and repairs a real horror personally. Besides, I can't. I'm left-handed and I have two left-handed hands. If we have to repair here, in the room, we're really putting the horse behind the cart. I have said it in my conversations with the informant, and I have said it here before: there are often policies that we do not see, or at least do not map, the consequences of which we do not see. I think that, if we are to make policy in the future, we are to talk about workload, as we have been reminded, we can foresee this kind of thing and we should, in fact, anchor it first. That's my last call. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u89	Thank you to Mrs Van der Plas. We have come to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend for 15 minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u90	I'll check the clock before I give the Secretary of State the floor. It's our agreement to stop here at 11:00. We have just seen again, together, how important it is that we leave each other a bit whole and not too long and that there is peace and quiet, sleep. So I would like to try to really finish this debate, including a second deadline. So that requires some self-discipline and quick, but not careless treatment from all of us. We'll see how far we get. In the worst case scenario, I will stop after the first term of office of the Secretary of State and we will have to finish at another time, but let's try to complete it completely. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That would be worth a sweet thing to me, by the way. It's not a very big bill, it actually fits on a page, but for the entrepreneurs affected by this situation it's a very important bill. And what am I talking about? I am talking about a situation where there is a forced opening of shops without an entrepreneur's consent. This concerns the Shopping Times Act, which was last amended in 2013. That law was about when stores are allowed to open. This treatment is about another situation, as has just been said. It does feel strange to talk about forced opening when we have just come from a time when shops were forced to close because of COOVID-19. It has been a very difficult period for the sector, for the entrepreneurs concerned, but, fortunately, the end of the crisis is beckoning. I very much appreciate that your Chamber has managed to find the time to deal with this bill. Mr. Chairman. What kind of situations am I talking about? For example, a situation in which a shopkeeper's association decides on the opening hours of all members. Small retailers in particular will then be able to be over-voted in a meeting and face different opening hours than those they have ever agreed to. The amendment of the Shopping Times Act in 2013 contributed to the emergence of these situations by the fact that many municipalities have adapted their local opening hours to that time. Although the evaluation shows that this system worked well, on the part of shopkeepers it has had undesirable effects in the agreements made between themselves and with landlords. I think it is important for entrepreneurs themselves to be able to consider changing their own opening hours. Some of your members rightly referred to the fact that shopkeepers are, of course, just people with families and needing rest. The compulsory opening of shops should therefore be avoided as far as possible in order to protect shopkeepers from this. That's why I filed this bill. It's a long run, but now it's on the table. This bill regulates that improvement for shopkeepers compared to current situations. What does this bill do? This bill therefore protects shopkeepers from one-sided changes in their opening hours. They must now expressly agree to a change in opening hours, otherwise it will be null and void. What exactly is such a one-sided change? Those are all times when opening hours are changed and the shopkeeper has not agreed. As I said before, a large part of the agreements on opening hours are made in retail associations. In that case, a majority decision can be taken on these opening hours. Thus, a counter-voting shopkeeper may be confronted with opening hours that he or she does not want. There are also contracts in which landlords or franchisees have agreed to be able to change one-sided opening hours, i.e. without the consent of the individual shopkeeper. The case Paddepoel has also been explicitly mentioned. I have also personally met these entrepreneurs and seen what it has meant to them. They were faced with fines from the shopkeepers' association because these shopkeepers did not want to handle the extended opening hours. That is why it is good to guarantee this legal right now and thereby strengthen shopkeepers in their position. In its previous composition, the Chamber asked whether this proposal would also provide a solution for shopkeepers who faced a unilateral change before the entry into force of this bill. That's the case. Such changes from the past, i.e. changes to which the shopkeeper has not expressly agreed, will be null and void even after the entry into force of this bill. Towards the CDA Group: assuming that the First Chamber can handle this bill smoothly, that date is 1 January 2022. Mr. Chairman. Thus, this bill prevents a person other than the shopkeeper, such as a landlord, a shopkeeper's association, a franchiser or a real estate owner, from unilaterally deciding on the opening hours of the individual shopkeeper. Some of you have asked whether this is a very big problem. Both in the explanatory statement and in the note on the report, you have been able to read about this. Then it's not a very large percentage you're talking about. The conclusion is therefore that one can assume that the parties mentioned in most situations deal with each other in a proper manner. So it often goes well in the sector. Nevertheless, we know of situations where this was not the case, and that has made this legislative proposal possible. Mr. Chairman. It was quite a puzzle to come to this bill. A number of Members of Parliament have said that this bill can also be seen as a balance between different interests. These are the interests of individual shopkeepers, of the collective of shopkeepers, and thus the interests of individual shopkeepers and of consumers. I've seen those different sides. I've listened to it, too. But through all those sounds, I think this bill is balanced. I have heard some of your words of agreement. I have heard that they are voting in favour of this proposal. I would like to thank you for that. A number of questions have been put to me and I have three amendments. The first amendment lays down that agreements on shopping time should be prohibited outside national opening limits. In other words, the Sundays and public holidays mentioned in the law and between 10 p.m. and 6 p.m. I must advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u92	I'm sorry to interrupt. What number are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u93	I believe that this is the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u94	Yeah, exactly. Which now includes Mrs Leijten's name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u95	Yes. I must advise against that amendment. The system of the Shopping Times Act is precisely that the municipalities can make their own assessment of opening hours and that they can deviate from national boundaries. So it's local and not national. That system works well. Therefore, it is undesirable to limit agreements between entrepreneurs to those national borders. The retail sector is not in favour of this option either, as it should be possible to make arrangements for times outside national borders. How else can you shape precisely the coordination that is needed in the shopping areas and the clarity for the consumer? Finally, you have to ask yourself whether this amendment cannot be a pyrrhus victory for the small shopkeeper. Let's say we're going to ban these agreements and say that a landlord then makes the trade-off to offer only large chains a place, because he can assume that there's a good chance they'll open up on this kind of day. I was listening to an interrupting debate in which those different interests came back well, whether they were religiously or humanely inspired. On the one hand, you have the need for peace of mind and the freedom of contract to decide for yourself what to meet with a business partner, but on the other hand, you also have the need for coordination. Especially now that things are going badly, not everywhere with parts of the retail trade, this coordination, that attractiveness of shopping areas, is of the utmost importance. In doing so, I also answered the question of whether it is the legislator's responsibility to ensure that shopkeepers are not forced to be open outside the national boundaries of the Shopping Time Act. I shall now turn to the amendment tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Leijten. 9. This amendment aims to ensure that the regime currently contained in the legislative proposal applies to merchants with a permanent place of employment. That is the purpose of this amendment, but because of the system of the Shopping Times Act, this amendment sees more than just the fixed places of employment. All sales in direct contact with private individuals are covered by the Shopping Time Act, such as events or a temporary market. I simply do not see the effect that this amendment would have on this situation. I have spoken briefly with the industry about this and I have no signs that this is going structurally wrong. I understand the purpose, but at the same time... I echo the words of Mrs Van der Plas, although she talked about policy. We must think together before we intervene in the Shopping Time Act by means of an amendment with the market people with a fixed place of employment as their goal, while there is much more to the law than just them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u96	I would first like to give the floor to the author of the amendment, Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u97	This amendment has been made with the help of legislative lawyers, so I will look again at the framework of market merchants with a permanent place of employment, so that at least that is technically okay. Then the point. I have also spoken with people from the merchants' sector, and this is certainly a recognizable point for them, which they want to have regulated, at least a number of them. The point is: the rest of the law sees both shopkeepers and market merchants with a permanent place of employment, among others. Why not include the "equal monks, equal hoods" approach in this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u98	I have just said that the amendment only sees this, at least that is what I read in the explanatory statement on merchants with a fixed place of employment. I understand that Mr Grinwis has made a strong commitment to this in the past. The law is wider than just that, so that's a reason not to, but this law is about private law agreements and the freedom to conclude contracts. The situation of merchants is different. They are granted a place of work permit under the general local regulation, which is once again subject to the Municipal Law. So you are also intervening in the decentralised unitary state that we are. By this I would like to say that municipalities are about their own location policy, not the state government. So I'm not saying that if you're gonna take a good look at it, you might have to do something for this, too. I haven't even gotten there yet. But I am saying that at the moment, at the end of a legal process, I would like to have a more careful process of getting to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u99	As I have already said, I am going to look again with the legislative lawyers to see if this is the most orderly wording. But the point is that the fact that a municipality is a public body with its own local democracy does not alter the fact that municipalities can unilaterally extend market times. A system of counting days is often linked to this: if market merchants do not show up on a second holiday, for example, this will be at the expense of their count days. That is what is at issue here, for example, in the Hague Market. Then they just have less free time. This is also a unilateral measure, which is not always enforced by the municipalities with the agreement of all market buyers. This law is designed to protect shopkeepers. My plea is: if you do so, do so for those merchants. Apart from the legal point we still have to look at, I would ask whether the Secretary of State agrees with me that those merchants deserve the same protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u100	In my opinion, it was even Mr Grinwis who asked me whether I also think employees should be protected by the Shopping Time Act. I don't want to go that far. The bill that is on the table here is to ensure that shopkeepers are not forced to open if they have not agreed to it. That's what this bill is about. I have just said what I said about the amendment tabled by Mr Grinwis. I'm not going to repeat myself, given your question at the beginning of my term, Mr. President. So I'd like to stick with that. Can I imagine the situation I have seen with my own eyes and its impact on entrepreneurs? I wanted to mention Martin and René, but that sounds so popular. I just lost the last names of both gentlemen. I know Bolhuis, but I can't reproduce the other one right now. But yes: I know that, I saw that. I can imagine that the same applies to merchants. However, for reasons I have just mentioned, I think this amendment is too late in this legal process. That's why I have to advise against it. I simply cannot see how this also interferes with the general local regulations and the powers of municipalities in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u101	I am going to support my colleague Grinwis here, because I did feel some sympathy for his story. Moreover, as regards the remark that this amendment is too late in the legislative process: I would not know when you should have done it as a Chamber earlier. It is only now that we are in the House of Representatives, so I think it is an orderly process that my colleague is going through. I would ask the Secretary of State to look again at the amendment, because the examples she cites are about events and weekly markets. But these are events where an event permit has been issued or on the basis of an APV. There's a start and end time in there. So there is no question of a situation such as Mr Grinwis's. If it is a weekly market on Friday morning from 09.00 to 13.00 hours, then there can be no forced opening outside moments prescribed by the Shopping Times Act, namely before 6.00 hours, after 10 p.m. or on Sundays and public holidays. So that situation doesn't go away. My question to the Secretary of State is: is she prepared, whether or not with a letter, to come back to that? 'Cause I think what my colleague says here is pretty good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u102	This amendment in part No. 9 inserts after "shop": "the person exercising a business other than in a shop." With this you may go beyond just the market merchants with a fixed place of business. I just can't see over that. That's one. Two. I've been in touch with the industry organization. They have indicated that they have had no signals from the industry or from individual market buyers that something is structurally going wrong in terms of forced opening. I also had contact with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and asked: do you recognize this? I simply find it undesirable to settle something if there is no problem and the sector itself did not say: fantastic idea! In addition, you intervene in the jurisdiction of municipalities. This is municipal policy and if this is in a municipality, this is something that local councils should discuss with their college of mayor and aldermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u103	That last point is special in any case. Municipal legislation must also comply with national legislation. If market buyers are covered by the Shopping Times Act, then this law is also about that situation. So I don't think that's imfrage. The second point, I think, is that of the Chamber, and on the first point, I think that the Secretary of State has a point. Then my question to the Secretary of State would be: can she make a suggestion to the Chamber, saying: if you use this and this and this, and this, technically... The organization of the Secretary of State is a little better equipped than the forces we have here. They are also good, but of course there is an affair. Again, is the Secretary of State prepared to make a written suggestion on how to frame it better, so that the problem that Mr Grinwis is raising can be addressed with the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u104	The tricky thing is that this will significantly delay the bill. Then I'll have to consult with the Central Association for Ambulant Trade. I'm gonna have to talk to the VNG. I will have to talk to BZK, because I do intervene in the decentralised unitary state we have with each other; in the competence, the autonomy of municipalities. I therefore reject this amendment, I say to your Chamber. But we're still gonna talk about the duration of permits for out-of-town trade. I've been investigating how long placement permits can last. I think it would be a good idea to discuss this issue with each other. The example given by Mr Grinwis also showed that the problem was finally resolved. Then I think to myself: why do we take care of something very quickly that intervenes in all those different facets that I just outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u105	I believe that the Secretary of State gives a clear and convincing explanation. I also read it in such a way that anyzzp'er can now appeal to it, if it is formulated as follows: anyone who does a business other than in a shop. That's 1.7 million companies, I think. But my question is actually about the other point. The amendment is indeed about the role of municipalities, while the law, if I understand it correctly, intervenes in private law, in the agreements that private parties make with each other. Is it not true that the purpose of the explanatory memorandum cannot be achieved by an agreement between private parties? This is a public body, namely a municipality, which uses a certain way of licensing markets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u106	This aspect has also been raised for a while. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u107	I was given this amendment quite late, of course, so it is very difficult for me to answer all these questions on the spot, for which we normally have a legislative preparation, an opinion from the Council of State and a note on the report, because I can imagine more questions. It is true that this bill is about the private agreements between two private parties. Pitch holders do so on the basis of a permit based on a general local regulation. That is a public-law relationship, so that makes a difference, and hence my remark that you also intervene in the autonomy of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u108	On a point of order, it is up to us to table amendments in the debate. The cabinet can respond to that. If the Secretary of State says she can't do that now in two hours, I can understand that. But I would like a more detailed written response, otherwise we will not be able to shape our right of amendment here. That's the thing before. Then on the content. I actually hear two objections. The first concerns the definition of the group. This is about the fact that this wording is much broader than the specific point that Mr Grinwis announced in his speech. I am curious about Mr Grinwis' response. I get that. The second is a more generic point about competences. If the point of demarcation is in order, will the fundamental point remain about the powers of municipalities? I also sympathise with what the Secretary of State says, but I think it would be a good idea to peel that off and understand that, because we still have some time to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u109	Then I would suggest that we return to this in writing, as has already been suggested. The Secretary of State has now said what can be said about it. I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u110	I am very prepared to inform the Chamber of what I am now saying in greater detail before the votes. I am also willing to ask the trade association and the Association of Dutch Municipalities a little more about what they think of this, because solving something that is not a problem, while it intervenes in this way, I also find one thing. But it's a fine proposal and I'll make sure you get another supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u111	That was all about the amendment to item No. 9. Then we have the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u112	Yes, I still have the amendment to item No. 8. That's gonna get judgment, Room. Good idea; as such, I have already promised this in the note on the basis of the report. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few more questions to answer. Is my image around the fine clause still the same? The bill does not have full retroactive effect. With this bill, you are already heavily concerned with existing legal relationships, which, for example, protects a shopkeeper who is faced with changed opening hours in 2016 if he has not agreed to these changed opening hours five years later. So that's pretty much an operation. With the lifting of fines for the past, we as legislators must be cautious, as this leads to a loss of legal certainty. So my image is still the same. Mr. Chairman. I have already said a few things about the scale of the problem. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been asked about consumerism, Sunday rest, burn-outs and so on. Of course, I have an opinion on that. The question is whether it is government policy. In any case, with this legislative proposal, we have ensured that an entrepreneur himself can make his or her own assessment that fits his or her life. In general, I think it's very wise to take your rest regularly. That goes for everyone. Mr. Chairman. Then the question as to whether this leads to a division of shopkeepers, whereby landlords will in future exclude small shopkeepers. That's what the evaluation's looking at. Also for this reason, large retail chains and large real estate rental companies should realize that, if you can arrange things online, this is often the only reason to go shopping. So they could be a little bit economical, and most of them are also called "the little shopkeeper," who just gave the sheu to that shopping street in a village or city. Mr. Chairman. Does this law apply if you suddenly face a change that means you have to close despite previous agreements you made? The answer to that is yes. I don't have to go on about that anymore. That also answers the question. Mr. Chairman. I've only got three folders left, so it's fast. Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union asked: does the Secretary of State still think that the Civil Code provides adequate protection against coercion and urge when concluding an agreement? Yes. The Civil Code sets limits on what contracting parties may or may not do under circumstances. Threat, deceit and abuse of circumstances are prohibited at all times. The parties shall behave towards each other in accordance with the requirements of reasonableness and fairness. They must also respect the standards of benevolence. A legal act shall be null and void where it has been created by threat, deception or misuse of circumstances. Mr. Chairman. Should workers be protected from night and Sunday work by wider opening hours in the 24-hour economy? Oh, yeah. This involves a wide range of laws and regulations, including collective agreements, which are established between employers and employees. Mr. Chairman. On the question of whether the future of the shopping streets will be included in the evaluation, I have already said a few things. So I can be brief about that too. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question from the CDA Group about how to restructure shopping areas: why is it spread over four years? Restructuring is complex. There are many parties involved. A good area-oriented and integrated project just takes time. You also have to deal with a local political lead. Municipal council members are right to find a few things of this kind. Not every municipality has experience in restructuring. By opting for a four-year period for the budget secured for this restructuring, I am referring to that 100 million ECU, which is also possible for the municipalities that are still developing their plans to respond. If a lot of good quality projects are offered, much more than honoured, I am of course prepared to discuss with your Chamber any acceleration or intensification of the approach. This brings me to the end of my first-term response, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u113	Thank you. That was very fast indeed. Mr Amhaouch has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u114	Yeah, about that last point. I think I can agree with that if there are good plans. Quite a lot of provinces and municipalities were already busy. The CDA thinks you should be able to do it yourself if there are any good plans. The urgency is high. It shouldn't necessarily be four years. So the faster, the better, but always assess the quality of the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u115	I see the Secretary of State nodding in agreement. She agrees with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u116	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Of course within budget, but that goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u117	I see Mr Amhaouch nodding that again. We shall proceed to the second term of office. Is there anyone who still needs it? No? Then it can happen very quickly at once. Yes, Mr Grinwis, dot number one. It could just be about the now infamous amendment. You called in a helpline? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u118	Mr President, thank you. Thanks to the Secretary of State for the reaction. Let me turn to the amendment. One. Of course, I've taken advice. It also came to the Ministry's legal lawyers and there was no comment on it. Now we're gonna look again at whether we can do better legally. There may be a more detailed definition and an adjustment. Then we will at least make it legally correct, so that that objection does not exist anymore, before the vote. I'd also like to clear up a misunderstanding. It's not just about every randomzzp'er. It is always about the relationship to sales to individuals. The Shopping Times Act is not about everything and everyone. So that provision is not as undetermined as the Secretary of State just said during the debate. That's what I wanted to say. So there may indeed be a revision of the amendment before the vote. I will try to submit it as soon as possible so that there is no confusion and the Secretary of State can respond to the right amendment. And now I see there's a lot of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u119	Now everyone wakes up all at once, so we continue the debate. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u120	I do not want to reopen the debate, because I sincerely do not yet know whether I am in favour or against the spirit of the amendment. But we have had a debate over the last few weeks on the need to focus more on legislation as a Chamber, to do so carefully and not to follow the delusions of the day and so on. I kind of hit the next one. I believe that Mr Grinwis has addressed a problem here and is trying to find a solution to it with all the capacity we have in this house. There comes a time when we have to rattle this off in the evening and then do it for Tuesday. I do not think that is entirely in line with the discussion we have had over the last few weeks. The Secretary of State just indicated that there's a timetable. Maybe it's good to know when that is. Then I would prefer to take a few more weeks so that there is a good amendment on which we can decide whether we are going to vote for it or against it. That is a political assessment, but there is no fuss about the care of legislation. Let us at least take that as a lesson from the past few weeks, in a debate that has only been discussed in peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u121	I believe that everyone agrees on that. But Mr Grinwis, who is the author of this amendment, has just indicated that he has consulted with the legislative lawyers in this house and that he is going to try to improve the amendment. Let's see how far we get and then see how things go, otherwise we're going to take an advance on something that might not be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u122	I am curious about the amended amendment. Moreover, Mr Grinwis has the full right to table his amendment at any time until one minute before the vote. You can't do that, Mr. Chairman, just a few hours in advance. That's how it works. That's important. I'd appreciate it if we could work out a timeline. If we have to vote a little later, that can also be a week, I do not think that is insurmountable. Then the Secretary of State can respond to the amended amendment. Then I have an opinion on that amendment and I can form my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u123	That's exactly the point. The Secretary of State will respond to the modified amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u124	Exactly. It won't happen again tonight, but I'll do everything in my power to file it tomorrow. We then have a debate all day on the support package, so all the time to improve an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u125	This is also the case with the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs that this is done in consultation with BZK's directors. It may well be that this bill has been looked at and that you can broaden the workings of this bill to a certain group if you want, but it is not said that the issue mentioned in the explanatory memorandum is addressed in relation to municipal decisions. I wonder whether the lawyers consulted by Mr Grinwis have looked so far. I would like to make that clear, because otherwise, perhaps at a late stage, we are going to upset something that we really shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u126	It seems to me that this aspect is being taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u127	That's what they're looking at. Of course, I'm going to do that again carefully, but it's been looked at. There is no difference in principle, although it is indeed often local authorities that deal with these markets, but that does not matter legally. The Shopping Times Act sees on both groups anyway. Therefore, the argument is still valid that it is logical to apply this change of law for both groups, both shopkeepers and market merchants with a fixed place of employment. But I will make sure that that is tested flawlessly and is properly regulated in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u128	Mrs Leijten, co-author of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u129	I have a procedural comment, also a little in response to Mr Aartsen. He does not mean that the Chamber should no longer table amendments and not take its co-legislative role seriously. I didn't put it in like that. But we also shouldn't pretend... If it has been properly sorted out and legal arguments are then used to try to dismantle something politically, then we should not go into it. That happens all the time. There has been endless consultation between lawyers: that can be done in this bill. Whether it is politically desirable is something else. But then there are legal arguments why you don't want to. I would like to call on the Secretary of State, or the government in the chamber-government relationship in the co-legislative task: do it along the political line. Otherwise, you'll get the barge between lawyers and the Chamber in its dominant position always comes to the shortest conclusion with fewer lawyers compared to a ministry full of lawyers. Then there is no balance. I do not want to say that the Secretary of State has that intention, I do not want to say that Mr Aartsen has that intention, but I do hear that something is happening here. Then we don't really have to deal with laws anymore. Then we just have to say yes or no. I don't think anyone's after that. At least I wanted to make that point procedurally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u130	You're well aware of that, Mr. Chairman. I very much agree with that. A thick line underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u131	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Then we can go straight to the second term of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to Mrs Leijten that, of course, it can be equally frustrating for merchants to be on the market at some point on days they have never agreed to. Then I can imagine perfectly. Whether you have to deal with this amendment at the moment is the question. Because then you assume that there is a problem and that this amendment is the solution. I think the next thing is a good deal with your room, and I'm going to admit it. At the time when Mr Grinwis has amended his amendment and is submitting it to the Chamber, I understand that the Chamber is asking me to give an opinion on it, and I am going to go into the legal side of it, and I am going to go into what the industry organisation thinks about it and I am going to talk to my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations who is talking about Thorbecke's house; let me just mention it. Then it is ultimately up to your Chamber, as always, to vote. In my view, at least I mentioned the three things that I am going to deal with in my response to the perhaps modified amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u133	To the modified amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u134	To the modified amendment. Finally, Mr President. In my view, it is the instructions for regulation which provide that six months after the adoption of a legislative proposal by the States-General, it will enter into force. That would mean that before the summer recess it must be in the Upper Chamber and treated. But I'll find out for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u135	I shall give the floor to Mr Grinwis once more. He's got another reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u136	Clear. The trade association: that is the State Secretary's own addition. But fine; at least I've spoken to people on behalf of the industry. I have a point of substance to make. It was said during the debate that the problem was resolved. No, the opening of the Sundays did indeed leave the table locally, but the opening of the second public holidays continued. They're still subtracting from the count days. So the fundamental point remains that as an entrepreneur you are de facto restricted in your freedom of choice. This is quite apart from the question of whether the Secretary of State believes that this belongs in the city council, or whether that protection can also be provided legally and nationally, as with shopkeepers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u137	Thank you. That seems to me to be a good end to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-26.u138	I thank the Secretary of State. I would also like to thank my colleagues for the smooth handling of this fine bill. In principle, we will vote on this next Tuesday. If that changes, it'll be different again. Thanks again.
