ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of the Member of the Nijboer amending Book 7 of the Civil Code and the Implementing Law on rental prices for housing, Room 35488. I would like to welcome the initiator, Mr Nijboer. I believe that we have had to postpone this initiative proposal three times, because other debates had priority. You're sitting there! Thank you very much for that. You are indeed in box K, supported by two members of the PvdA group. These are Mr Ravensbergen and Mr Gouvernante. Welcome too! I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be scheduled at a later date, of course in good consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders as the first speaker, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, great compliments to the initiator. A fine initiative proposal that may well be adopted. It could just happen. Then it would be quite handsome. We think it is extremely important that this legislative initiative has been tabled, because we are in a housing crisis. There are a lot of people who can't find an affordable home. Especially middle-income people are the victims. They're screwed. If you're lucky enough to have a social rental, you'll have, at least often, a reasonably affordable rent, especially with rent surcharge. If you are lucky enough to earn enough to buy a property or have bought a property in the past, you will benefit from relatively low charges compared to tenants, and especially from rising house prices, at least in recent decades. It is the people who fall in between who are often really screwed in the current system. Also because they are often handed over to house milkers, who can increase the rents annually by huge amounts. So you have a high starting rent and you also get 3, 4, 5% on top of inflation every year. That's totally unsustainable in the long run. That is why it is very good that there is now a legislative proposal to do something about it. It goes without saying that we, as GroenLinks, will support this bill. We also negotiated it together during the negotiations on the settlement agreement with the cabinet. There have also been a few other points on the table. I would first like to ask the cabinet a few questions about this. The first is the Housing Fund: 450 million for vulnerable neighbourhoods. No doubt we all read the Algemeen Dagblad yesterday with a story about a neighbourhood here in The Hague with people who are in really super isolated homes. They really have the feeling of: this just can't happen anymore; please, invest in this neighborhood, not only in the corporate homes, but also in the homes in the private sector. Can the Minister give an update on the Housing Fund, especially when it is opened up? Because if it's okay, it's gonna happen soon. In addition, we have agreed in the agreement that the single penalty will be removed, so that no fewer singles will have access to a social housing. That's been done, too. That's very positive. So the final point is this bill. I said a few things about it. I also have a question for the initiator. It is incredibly good and important that we say now: maximum inflation plus 1%. Preferably no increase at all, but well, this is a very good first step, especially because now in the free sector too the rents are really restricted. Really a huge trend break with the past. So a big compliment for that. But does the petitioner agree with GroenLinks that it would also be good to regulate the initial hires? Because this helps very much to ensure that people's homes do not become much more expensive. Another major problem is, of course, that we see the rents being increased by hundreds of euros when someone moves. Does the initiator agree with GroenLinks that we should actually make a law for that too? As GroenLinks, we have all kinds of ideas about this. I wonder what the PvdA's got in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	If you're going to regulate the initial rent, you'll have the initial rent again with mutation. You don't have to do that double-up, do you? If you were to regulate the initial rent, there's already a maximation of the rent that can be requested, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	GroenLinks would very much like to extend the housing valuation system, which now applies up to €750, and use the full number of points included, i.e. up to €1,350. This means that the rent of homes that are now rented for €1,700, €1,800 is probably only €1,200 in the near future. This is only going to apply to new leases, because international law prevents us from breaking open existing leases. But that would indeed mean that if someone moves, a landlord should no longer charge €1,700 but €1,200. That combined with the bill we are talking about today, which makes sure that the rents can no longer rise enormously while someone lives somewhere, I think is the golden combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	Am I right in understanding that that means you're covering the mutations as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	Sure. Absolutely. That is the great advantage of this bill, which I hope D66 will support after the elections. I see D66 has been supporting everything she's always been for over the past few weeks, so I hope it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you for your input. The next speaker from the Chamber will be Mr Terpstra in a moment. He will speak on behalf of the Christian Democratic Appeal, after the microphone has been cleaned. That has happened by now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You say that beautifully! That's very nice of you to announce.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	That's what I've been studying for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u11	That's how we know you. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the crisis in the purchasing sector, the housing crisis in the rental sector is also enormous. Affordable rentals are often no longer available, especially in the cities. A normal private rental house, as I recently experienced in my street, costs just €1,400 per month. Bizarre rent increases are becoming more frequent. Starters and middle incomes are very difficult to buy or rent an affordable property. The CDA therefore appreciates Mr Nijboer's efforts to find a solution to the problem of rent increases through this initiative law. The CDA Group congratulates the author on his commitment. We recognise the problem described but still have some questions about the proposed measures. The free rental sector is not a normal market. Supply is slowly adapting to demand. The result can be guessed: little offer, because it takes a little longer before there are homes. And little offer means high rental prices. We all know the examples. This scarcity is now paid for entirely on one side by the tenant. The protection of rentals in the liberalised market is nil or little. Therefore regulating and thus limiting the rent increase is a logical reflex. But isn't the cure worse than the ailment? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State is critical of the initiative proposal because it focuses on one separate effect, the rent increase, without addressing the underlying problem of the large housing shortage. Over the next ten years, the CDA wants to build 1 million affordable buy and rent homes to solve the housing shortage. Investors, private and institutional investors should also contribute to this new building. Isn't the initiator afraid that investors will leave because the rental price is maximized, resulting in a fall in new building production? Mr. Chairman. In addition to a fall in construction production, the rent regulation can also lead to late maintenance, further increase of initial rents, the sale of houses and illegal sub-leases. The result is that the free sector is shrinking even further and is getting even higher rents. That's a scare, isn't it? How does the initiator intend to prevent this? In the case of investments in or on a dwelling for, for example, sustainability or improvement of living enjoyment, a rent increase of more than inflation plus 1% should remain possible as far as the CDA is concerned. The initiator proposes that the Minister arranges this exception for the rent increase through an AMvB. Now investments in a house are first proposed by the landlord to the tenant, after which the investment takes place with mutual agreement with a changing rental price. This approach will be repealed by this proposal. That is undesirable as far as the CDA is concerned. What does the initiator think of maintaining the current method, which appears to be working well in practice? Why does the initiator opt for an exception through a general measure of governance? Mr. Chairman. It may surprise the left, but there is more in the Netherlands than just Amsterdam and Utrecht. Not everywhere in the Netherlands the rents increase excessively. This measure also affects landlords in parts of the country where rental prices have not increased excessively on average. How does the initiator remove these concerns? Why is the initiator not prepared to have some flexibility, by applying inflation plus a maximum of 7.5% in five years? Practice shows that investors do not increase rent by 7.5% after one year, but for example by just over 1% in consecutive years through multi-annual investments. How does the initiator view this? Mr. Chairman. For certain rentals we need both investors, the free sector and housing corporations. The CDA is strongly in favour of giving more space to corporations and to give them back the investment power they used to have. For example, we want to get rid of the landlord tax, which allows corporations to build and rent more in the middle segment. You know that all houses are covered by an extensive WWS system, the so-called point system. For example, the WZ value, the state of the home and the energy efficiency determine the rental price. I would ask the initiator if the introduction of a point system for the free rental sector would not make this initiative proposal superfluous. Finally, Mr President. It is good that excessive rent increases are curbed. That is why we, as a group, are in favour of this proposal. But with maximizing the rent increases alone, we're not there yet. There are major challenges in the coming years to solve the housing shortage. Real solutions to counter the high rents are simple. We need to build much more, with more government direction, identify locations and have less unnecessary rules. In the free sector, bad house milkers need to be dealt with. As far as the CDA is concerned, there will be an obligation to self-inhabit to avoid expensive rentals, but also a fair return for investors, precisely in order to stimulate construction. As far as the CDA is concerned, these are the real solutions to housing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you for your input. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u13	Well, that was a nice lock! Those are measures that sound like music to us. I would like to congratulate the speaker from the CDA for calling for the points system to be extended to the free sector. That is something my party has often proposed, because it will cause a lot of rents in the free sector to fall. It's also in your election program. My question to the CDA is: how would the CDA manage that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u14	It is true that we have in our election programme that we want to limit excessive rent increases in the free sector. It is good that a rental price is created on the basis of objective criteria and that the tenant knows where he is going. I think it is important that the tenant knows where he is and that the rents are decent, but I also think it is important that there is room for return on the investor, because the investor also contributes to the new building in our view. And the solution for lower rents in the longer term is to build a lot more homes. Mrs. Beckerman will agree with me, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u15	With this ruling, I believe there is a majority in the House of Representatives to extend the points system to the commercial sector, the free sector. That's very good news. The question is: are you prepared to give this to the cabinet already? We have a proposal for this in this debate. Are you prepared to do so now or should you not do so until after the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u16	I think it is good to let that be part of the election debate in the coming weeks. I'm okay with watching that. I await with interest Mrs Beckerman's proposals. After the election, we can talk to Mrs Beckerman to see if she can take responsibility and if we can come to something beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u17	This is interesting, because we have an initiative law on this. It goes up to 1,300 euros. You may think that is a little too rough, but I'm sure we can reach a good compromise on a lower amount. A lot of middle incomes have been helped with that. My question concerns another point. Mr Terpstra just said that this proposal is too strong for the whole of the Netherlands, because not everything is Amsterdam and Utrecht and we cannot do it to the landlords. But what exactly is landlords doing with this bill? This bill only allows them to ask for inflation plus up to 1%, doesn't it? That's not terrible for the landlords, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u18	No. If Mr Smeulders had listened carefully, he would have heard me say that we are in favour of this proposal. I'm just saying that it's pretty rigid when you say just inflation plus 1%. I can imagine that, because of certain investments made by landlords, it can happen that one year is just as much needed in this rent increase as the next year. Then we can use it. That flexibility is lacking. That is what I am asking for, and that is what I am putting forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u19	It is good that Mr Terpstra once again confirms that he is in favour of the proposal in itself. I started to think that the CDA was thinking differently than in 2018, when they tabled a motion with me to set the emergency button, and this proposal is one of the effects of the emergency button. But my question is about something else. You started your speech with the fact that it is not only a crisis in the purchasing sector, but also in the rental sector. It is. Today we are talking about the rental sector. I see that at the procedural meeting, for example, you wanted to make a controversial statement about the World Health Organization Cap. This is also one of the measures to tackle the crisis that exists in the rental sector. Why does the CDA want to save it for after the elections and do they not want to take action to help those people there already?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u20	Well, I think we should get to affordable rents. I also believe that there are different ways of achieving this. One of them is to build more homes. I have also said in my contribution that a healthy return on investment contributes to this. You can design this in different ways, also by putting a cap on the WOZ for affordable rentals. We've got elections and then we're gonna move on. That's what we've come to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u21	That's it? Yes. Then thank you for your input. Then I'm going to announce the next speaker very slowly. That'll be Mrs. Chicken. It will speak on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr President, as you can see, I am reacting like a happy egg. Maybe that's because after the community service ban, the riots and Moria, I just think this bill is a very nice closure of the day. It's really about something, though the trigger isn't necessarily fun. Because everything is different this year, but one thing almost seems to be a fact: the letter with the annual rent increase fell back on the mat for a lot of people. A rent increase of €150 per month is unfortunately no longer an exception, and that applies not only to Amsterdam and Utrecht, I say to the colleague of the CDA. And that's when this is so important. For many people, living now covers the largest part of their income, while living is also about your home, the place where you feel safe and you relax. That's a lot more than a pile of rocks. Your house is also the neighborhood where you live and where your friends live. So living gives value to your life. Affordable living is a fundamental right, and it seems as if that fundamental right is less and less respected and increasingly under pressure. Last year's rents rose by 8% a year in six years, in the largest cities. Young people and singles lose half their income on rent. It's for people with a normal income so no more doing. And most people just have a normal income. We can work very hard to push up incomes and raise the minimum wage. That should all be done too, but if those burdens are just going to rise and rise, more and more people will have to pile up jobs to make ends meet. Also, more and more people will have to live together in the house, because there is simply no room to buy a house. House milkers are taking advantage of this housing shortage. They can just increase the rent by hundreds of euros. I mention the example of Mark, who studies in Groningen. With him, the rent went up by 6.6%, in crisis time, when you don't have a job or a side job. That's why it's high time we started protecting tenants again. This legislative proposal takes a first, fundamental step. The proposal limits the annual rent increase in the free sector to inflation plus 1%. I think that's incredibly important. That is why it is good that we are now introducing the Prince Bernhard tax for house milkers and investors and that we are using the proceeds for a national housing plan to build at least 100,000 new homes. We also want the next cabinet to have a Minister of Housing, who is going to protect and regulate that well. Mr. Chairman. That's why I'm happy with the bill. It will therefore not be surprising that I wholeheartedly support this proposal. My only real question to the Minister is whether she wants to embrace this bill. I hope she sees how important this is. We do know that we are now in a demissionary period and that it is now up to the Chamber to decide how to deal with it, but it is just as important that we are going to be a front in a new cabinet period when it comes to affordable, fine and accessible living. Mr President, I will conclude. I should have started by thanking the authors of this bill very much. I didn't do that because I came bouncing like a happy egg. That thanks goes not only to the main producer, Mr Nijboer, but also to Jan and Milo, who I know well myself. I want to thank them very much, because it always takes a lot of time and effort. But this is about something, this affects all of us and I hope for broad support from this Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you for your input. The next speaker will be Mr Kops, who will speak on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, of course, congratulations to the initiator of this bill. It is, of course, always something special when a Member of Parliament exercises his right of initiative. It's a fundamental right, for Christ's sake. But, Mr. Chairman, do you know what is also a fundamental right? That's living, having a roof over your head. "Promoting adequate housing is a matter of public concern', it is stated in the Constitution. Exactly, this has been far too low in recent years. A decent, affordable roof over your head hasn't been taken for granted for a long time. Do you want to buy a property or rent it? Then forget it. The housing shortage has now risen to more than 330,000. The houses that are still available are often priceless for ordinary men and women. Rental prices and purchase prices have risen to record level. And, Mr. Chairman, if you've managed to get a rental, you'll get a rent increase for your choice every year; rent increase after rent increase. In ten years Rutte rents in the social sector have increased on average 26%. In the free sector, which is the subject of today's debate, that is as much as 44%. 44% rent increase in ten years Rutte has recently been shown by an analysis of the housing union, with the conclusion that the tenant under Rutte is badly off. And yes, Mr President, that's right! But do you think the cabinet cares? Well, no, on the contrary. Because as if the corona crisis had caused enough financial misery for many households, last year, in the middle of the crisis, was the biggest increase in rents in six years. That is really too scandalous for words. How do you plan to make the highest rent increase in six years in the middle of the crisis? It is unheard of and irresponsible. Mr. Chairman. And then we have to realize that before the corona crisis, some 800,000 tenants were already financially stuck, says the Nibud. At that time, there were 800,000 renting households with actually too high housing costs, a number that will continue to increase, especially now. If the Housing Association concludes that the tenant under Rutte is badly off, that is an understatement, because tenants have been heavily hit by Rutte for years. Mr. Chairman. The initiator, Mr Nijboer, is now coming up with a legislative proposal to curb the huge increases in rents in the free sector. That's good. He wants to maximize rent increases on inflation plus 1%. Of course, every euro that every tenant improves on this is positive. This bill is a good start. The PVV has often said that we are for lower rents or at least for a rental stop. Recently we have tabled a motion to at least reverse last year's record rent increase; at least, it should be nothing more than normal. Unfortunately, that motion was rejected by CDA, VVD, D66, Christian Union, Member Krol, SGP and FvD. And that's how we see those parties abandoning the tenants so hard, even before the corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. Unlike the social rental sector, there is virtually no rent protection in the free sector. The only thing that's pretty much settled is that the rent can rise once a year. But how much rent may increase in the free sector is not arranged, unless of course the landlord and tenant have made agreements in their contract. That's how the rents go up and up. And let's not forget: a lot of tenants haven't deliberately or voluntarily chosen to live in a free sector rental house. A lot of house seekers are still falling apart. They are house-seekers who earn a little too much to qualify for a social housing, who is not there at all, either because it is not built by the cabinet, or because it has been given away by the cabinet to status holders, and to people who earn too little to buy a property. Especially in view of the scarcity, the purchase prices continue to rise. These house seekers are thus supposedly forced to rent in the free sector, with all the rent increases as a result. Those rent increases haven't been maxed out yet. The tenants have no choice. That's what the landlords eagerly use. Because now say for yourself: if you as a tenant of your landlord are offered a new contract, with a substantial rent increase, what do you do? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You can, but then you're out on the street and you don't have a place to live. So that's not an option. The tenants are really standing with their backs against the wall. Then back to the bill. We read that the maximum rent increase in the free sector will apply for three years for the time being. Then I ask the initiator what "preliminary" means. What are the chances that this bill will be renewed after three years? If it isn't extended, what happens after those three years? And then all of a sudden, the rents go up in one blow? Are the landlords going to compensate the so-called lost rental income of the last three years with one stone? How are we supposed to see that? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question of how many households have actually been helped with this bill. In other words, how many tenants in the free sector have experienced a rent increase that is more than inflation plus 1%? We read in the papers of the initiator that it is about 19% of tenants in the free sector, or 87.000 households. Of course, it's wonderful if these households are making progress. The question is: what exactly is this group made of? Are all these 87,000 households among the 800,000 households mentioned by the Nibud who are now financially trapped? Are they really helping the people who can't afford it anymore? I'd like a response. The question is therefore: what is the bill for tenants in the free sector whose rent increase remains below inflation plus 1% but which is equally difficult? They too are financially stuck. Then what does the initiator do for that? Mr. Chairman. This underlines once again the need for a rental stop, for even lower rents, or at least for the reversal of last year's record rent increase. All the tenants were helped with that. Also the tenants who are having such a hard time but who are unfortunately now outside the scope of this bill. I keep repeating it as a PVV'er: lower rents and a rental stop, especially after years of rent increases under mainly VVD-regime. The tenants are dying for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u25	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for keeping your speaking time within the time you had given. I also saw that the initiator was pleased with the good questions you asked. So I'm curious about the answer he's going to give. Mrs Beckerman will be the next speaker to speak. It speaks on behalf of the Socialist Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Compliments to the authors of this beautiful law. In recent years we have worked regularly with the Labour Party when it comes to absurd rent increases, unjustified house expulsions or the fight against wrong house milkers, for which of course thanks. There is still an adopted SP motion at the Senate, which called for the rents to be frozen by 2020. Millions of tenants have noticed that the Minister has refused to carry out this motion, because in the midst of a global pandemic the rents have been increased. And not a little bit. It was the highest increase in six years. Mr. Chairman. We are therefore pleased that the Labour Party, like us, is considering ways in which we can stop this endless and uncontrolled increase in rents. We will, of course, support any step that is an improvement, so will this law. Not exactly a very exciting speech. Our commitment today, of course, is to take many more steps. Rental prices rose by as much as 35% below the last three Cabinets-Rutte. And yes, with this law, the rents continue to rise, only sometimes less hard. And that is a bit where the shoe wrings. Presenting a rent increase as a solution against high rents is a bit illogical. People who have now lost half their income to rent, if this law is passed, will still lose half their income to rent. Professor of Housing Market Peter Boelhouwer therefore states that this law will not have that much effect: "The highest rent increases take place when tenants leave." That's right, the highest rent increases of 8% or 9% annually, take place when a new tenant enters the house. If you are looking for a home now, for example as a teacher or as an agent, people who are often unable to go into the social sector and cannot buy, this proposal from the Labour Party will not help you. Does the author agree with us? He's already nodding. Does he still want to ensure that the initial hires are also limited? The House Union wholeheartedly supports the law, but also states that much more needs to be done. In an interruption I mentioned it: there is now finally a majority in the House of Representatives to extend the points system further. With that, you could lower the rents in the free sector for many people. The points system currently applicable to social rents must also be extended to 200 points according to the Housing Association. That is very technical, but it means for a lot of tenants in the free sector that they really get a lower rent. I am looking at Mr Koerhuis of the VVD, who likes this much less, but there is just a majority for here in the House of Representatives. Are we going to wait for elections or are we going to take the first steps now? As far as I'm concerned, we'll do it right away. Mr. Chairman. I know that Mr Nijboer is very much in favour of this proposal for a third important SP, which is that we immediately limit the number of temporary leases. It is precisely these temporary leases that help to ensure that rents can rise faster. Because yes, every few years a new tenant is able to charge considerably higher rents every few years. If you don't do anything about those initials, then bad house milkers can just say, "I put a new guy in there every two years, and I come every two years with a big higher rent." I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We are in a deep housing crisis, which has grown and grown in recent years. Of course, we support this good step, but much more is needed. That is why our proposals: limit the initial rents, reduce the rents by going through the points system and tackle the flex contracts. Finally, I say something not only in the direction of the proposers, but also in the direction of the Minister: listen to the call from the five major cities. They say: no longer wait and give us the opportunity to tackle wrong landlords by entering a rental permit. I would also like to comment on this. Well, Mr. Chairman, fine in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u27	And you will have another interruption from Mr Terpstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you to Mrs Beckerman for her glowing speech. That's how we know her. She just asked me to look into the future. I'd like to ask her the same question. You want to reduce the rents and deal with temporary leases. That's good for the tenants, fine, but what's your ideal image? In an ideal world, do you see room for private investors or, in the spirit of your party, just grey, grey Soviet flats, even if I don't want to call it that? Do you also see room for investors who can also contribute to raising the number of homes in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u29	Gray and gray? I don't think I've ever appeared here in grey and grey, unlike, for example, your coalition companion in his gray suit. Interesting as an example is the city of Vienna, I have mentioned this more often, because there you can live with all income, except the absolute top incomes, in a social rental house. 70% of the inhabitants of Vienna live in a social housing unit. The special thing is that because they have had that tradition for a long time, they have no ghettos, no disadvantaged neighbourhoods and no problem areas. Everyone lives mixed up in beautiful social rentals. I'd almost say "let's go to work," but that's absolutely impossible. We hope we can do it again soon. I would like to mention Vienna as an example. Ten years in a row, that city has been chosen as the best residential city. They build completely new residential areas with social housing, for low and middle incomes: beautiful neighborhoods, low rents, €400 per month, perfectly normal, very social. I think that is a very good example. Your question is then what role private landlords play in it. Well, the city itself is a big landlord and it gives orders to private builders. The city just says "these are the demands." They're strict demands. Rental is very often carried out through the city itself and yet these private promoters continue to build, despite the fact that the rents are limited and despite the high sustainability requirements. I don't share the horror of you. On the contrary, I see very different possibilities and many cities in Europe that are already much more active in the housing crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u30	Many words from Mrs Beckerman to say that she wants to regulate everything from the state. Through you, Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Beckerman that the real solution for affordable rentals is to increase the supply of housing. Does Mrs. Beckerman agree with this? Of course we can look at the point system. I also very much agree that we should go for affordable rentals, but in order to go for affordable rentals, we need to increase the offer. And for that we also need private investors, not just Father State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u31	I think that Mr Terpstra also feels a little shame from his own interruption. We have a huge shortage of affordable rentals and you have, of course, worked in recent years in a cabinet that has charged landlord tax for the social rental segment. Ten billion euros from the tenants have ended up in the tax cash. It is precisely because of this that many houses are not built. I understand you're sorry about that now. I understand you're saying, "Next time, we're gonna want to do it differently." My proposal is to do this right now, because much more should have been built. You're partly responsible for the fact that that didn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you for your input. The next speaker is Mrs Van Eijs. She's going to speak on behalf of the Democrats '66. Go ahead. Is it too high?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, this is a little easier. I'm doing it today without a tool. That's broken, so I hope it goes well. We're talking about free rent today. Often they are experienced as falling between shore and ship: making too much money for a social rental house, but not enough to buy a house. It depends on the free rental sector or a middle rental house. That is why it is important for D66 that we have a good affordable middle segment. That segment is now being squeezed between subsidised purchase and subsidised rent. Middle rental shouldn't be a gap between a shore and the ship, but should be a solid bridge. That is why D66 wants to reduce the preferential treatment of residential housing and reform the supplement scheme. Today it is not about this, but about Mr Nijboer's proposal to increase rents in the free sector by up to 1% plus inflation. First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate the author and the staff for the work they have done. D66 supports this proposal. We have long been in favour of limiting rents, so that in the free sector there are also affordable middle rentals. In 2018, together with the CDA, I tabled a motion for the emergency button to counter exorbitant rent increases. That is why we also support Mr Nijboer, who has further strengthened Minister Ollongren's plans. With regard to D66, the proposal fits into a list of measures to make the rental market fairer: converting the landlord's tax into a fund so that corporations can invest, including in affordable middle rent, an income requirement of up to three times the rent, more opportunities for municipalities to limit the initial rent, to set a maximum of temporary rental contracts and to introduce permits for landlords. That is why I ask the Minister whether it would not be good to look at the starting rents, to give municipalities opportunities to do so and also to allow them to limit the number of temporary leases. For example, there is no possibility of getting below the maximum rent increase by always working with successive temporary leases. I would also like to ask the initiator some substantive questions about his proposal. The Council of State states that restrictions on rentals can lead to fewer offers of rentals. Can the applicant, as well as the Minister, reflect on this comment made by the Council of State on a sufficient offer of rentals? There are some exceptions for higher rent increases. That seems wise to us. These are now being designed in the same way as for regulated homes. The reasonableness of the relationship between investment and rent increase is determined using a policy book of the Rent Committee. I had never heard of that, so I was wondering if the initiator thinks that this is sufficiently clear and workable for all parties. I mean not only the landlords, but also the tenants. Do they know that? Access to the Rent Commission to enforce the maximum rent increase is important to D66 and so it is good that this is included in the proposal. Finally. The proposal currently applies for a maximum of three years with an evaluation within two and a half years. My question is therefore whether two and a half years in which we can be properly evaluated. So what exactly are we going to measure? Do we know enough? Is there sufficient monitoring? How easy or difficult would it be to extend that measure? Should preparations be made for this, for example, by now? The fact that we are not here on our own with this measure was also demonstrated by the call of the big cities. They're calling for rogue cottage milkers to be more powerful. D66 has been calling attention to the rapid roll-out of, as it is called, the Groningen model to ward off malicious house milkers and to introduce permits for rental and therefore to withdraw them. My question to the Minister is what is going on with this Groningen model. Can licences be withdrawn already? When can this model be introduced nationwide? Is there any way to hurry this up? The tightness on the current housing market causes excesses. We have to protect people from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u34	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker will be Mr Van Otterloo who will speak on behalf of 50PLUS. The chair will be cleaned for a while. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike the previous speakers, you can't think of anything but the abbreviation. I can only say that 50PLUS has nothing to do with the fat content of cheese.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u36	Ah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u37	For example, I always have to explain abroad what 50PLUS stands for. Mr. Chairman. It is always a happy moment when a Member of Parliament can submit his own own own initiative law. As a Chamber, we are a legislative power and should not depend solely on a coalition of governments which can or cannot agree on something. Today's proposal is therefore a proposal which, as far as we are concerned, is supported not only by the fact that it is an initiative legislative proposal, but also by its content. Sometimes you would say that the free sector, between the social sector and the purchasing sector, is simply a Bermuda triangle. There are very different forces working on the rents of the sector. The applicant indicates that it must be an acceptable return. Mr Terpstra also mentioned this. I would like to know from the author what an acceptable return is. In my professional career, I've heard a lot of different views from investors about what they thought was an acceptable return. Oddly, the fall in interest rates did not affect the acceptable return. This also means that more money will move to the housing market. That doesn't find its way into a very high production. The housing market also suffers from this kind of competition, but it does not seem to lead to any different views on a return. The same goes for the expats and the like. I think the CDA has asked questions about that. In the free sector we are dealing with very different types of competitors in the middle hire sector. Expats that are sitting here are mainly looking at the region of The Hague and paying a low tax rate, because they come from abroad. They can afford more than those who come above the border and are therefore no longer dependent on the social rental sector. That seems to us to be a problem too. This is somewhat addressed here; that is to say: for the seated tenants. But how do you ensure that in the initial hires that competition becomes fairer than it is now? We believe that a rent increase in inflation plus 1% net is a decent or civilized solution; it's just how you want to point it out. It means a little more peace. I agree with the questions of my predecessors about the deadline. This is about five years and an evaluation after three years. Then what's gonna happen? What do we need to control it anyway? In this respect, 50PLUS is also in favour of extending the housing valuation system, the point system, to the free sector. The fact that a declining number of homes in the social sector are available means that more and more people are dependent on the middle sector. They also deserve a form of rent protection and a form of counter-force against speculation. Speculation is unfortunately the driving force behind many construction projects. In this respect, it is only logical for us to do so. I would also like to draw particular attention to a particular group of older people. That is why we are in favour of this. A number of older people depend on a rental house because of the sale of their home and the impossibility of buying a property suitable for their age and their limited physical possibilities. We get a lot of complaints about the rent increases that are taking place there. On the one hand, you see the very poor prospects with regard to raising pensions. On the contrary, the purchasing power of pensions is falling. On the other hand, you can see that there are rent increases that people have to pay entirely out of their own pocket. As far as we are concerned, this is an argument for being here for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u38	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker is Mr Koerhuis. He speaks on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr. Chairman. A good and affordable house is important for everyone. It offers certainty. Whether you buy or rent, your home is the place you come home after a day of hard work. But we're running out of deficits. Everyone knows someone who wants to move but can't find a house. The deficits also result in high rising purchase prices and high rising rental prices. We see that the rents in some neighbourhoods with little offer increase very rapidly. This is particularly the case in cities such as Amsterdam and Utrecht. Because there is little supply and construction plans there very dry up, tenants have little choice and sometimes pay very high rents. Mr Nijboer is presenting an initiative law today. This temporary law for the next three years provides for a maximum increase in rents with inflation plus 1%, with a number of exceptions. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Nijboer for his commitment and for the time he has put into this law. I do have a few questions for the petitioner and the minister. Mr. Chairman. In particular, the petitioner wants to combat extreme cases by means of this law. That's understandable. In some cases, middle income must be protected by the government. It has already been asked what the chosen rate of inflation plus 1% is based on. I believe that the CDA and the Christian Union also asked for this in the written round. The applicant did not reply in substance. He indicated that institutional real estate investors were also proposing a lower percentage for the people at home: pension funds investing in residential housing as well as the minister's earlier efforts. Yet it is these institutional real estate investors who are now criticizing the percentage chosen. Therefore, my question to the author: what is the justification for the percentage chosen? What are the calculations underneath? Mr. Chairman. The law also proposes that tenants may go to the Rent Committee if they do not agree with the rent increase. Are you sure the Rent Commission can handle this task? Was that tested? I would like a response from both the petitioner and the Minister to these questions. In any case, I see that there has been no execution test. If that execution test can still be carried out, I ask the petitioner. Mr. Chairman. The applicant indicates that there has been an infringement of the right of ownership. We in the Chamber must also take this into account. On this point, I would ask the Minister to explain this law. How does the Minister assess the legal sustainability of this bill? On this point, I also have a number of questions for the author. Does the applicant recognise that small private landlords, for example a baker or a butcher who rents an apartment above his shopping premises, face a very different risk than a large pension fund with thousands of buildings? How is that difference in risk taken into account in this law? According to the complainant, what is the capacity of a small private landlord when the local charges, such as ozb and landlord charges, are significantly increased year after year? Does the applicant consider that an increase in interest rates should also be included in the exceptions included? Then it's about sustainability, Mr. Chairman. I see that Mr Nijboer has included an exception to this in the legislative proposal. For example, I read in his explanatory statement: "A higher percentage may be established in the case of a general measure of governance if the landlord has invested in improving or improving the energy performance of the property in accordance with the provisions of that measure. Both cases must be subject to the consent of the tenant." This is an important point, which I would like to make clear to the author. Does he mean that a rent increase for sustainability can always be allowed? What are the preconditions in his view? I ask the petitioner if this is such a peripheral condition. Let me give you an example. What if a heat grid is built in a neighborhood? The landlord wants to invest and the tenant doesn't give permission. How does Mr Nijboer see it? We had a lot of discussion here a few months ago about imposing a ban on cooking gas on tenants in Utrecht Overvecht. The VVD was against this, but the PvdA was fine that tenants could get a heavy penalty payment from the municipality. Has Mr Nijboer turned on that now? If not, how does he rhyme with his bill? Finally, Mr President, a question on the evaluation clause. Why does the bill have an evaluation clause? The applicant states that the law expires after three years. Another point for the Minister about the news that the NRC has opened today. We rent more than 1,000 social rental homes in this country to people who own two or more properties next door. This is another debate, so I will not go into it further, but VVD and CDA have asked questions about this together. We would like to ask the Minister to answer these questions before the House Act is discussed. Then we can take that answer with us in the treatment of the House Act. Those were my questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u40	With some sort of small arrangement of work at the end, but it's noted. Mrs. Beckerman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr Koerhuis asked a number of questions about the Rent Committee. The bill says tenants can go to the Rent Commission. Mr Koerhuis raised some fundamental questions about this. I would actually like to put a fundamental question to Mr Koerhuis: does Mr Koerhuis think that these tenants should indeed be able to go to the Rent Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u42	That's part of this bill. I shall await the reply of the author and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u43	You have an opinion of your own, don't you? You don't have to wait until the cabinet finds something, do you? This is a question of principle. Only then will the effects come. Do you find that tenants, if they come into conflict with their landlord... Now it is so arranged that social tenants can always go to the Rent Committee; that does not apply to tenants in the free sector. That can really lead to dramatic situations. The five major cities point to this. Think of overdue maintenance, fungi and excessive rent increase, which you sometimes cannot do anything about as a tenant. You're gonna be in a lot of trouble and maybe you should start a lawsuit right away. The very simple question to the VVD is: shouldn't we give these tenants a little more legal certainty and thus give them access to the Rent Committee? You don't have to wait for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u44	First of all, Mrs Beckerman knows that late maintenance and fungus take place mainly with corporate housing in the social rent. Then tenants can go to the Rent Commission, as Mrs Beckerman herself indicates. But there are also other routes. Mrs. Beckerman states that a tenant can go to court, for example. But when it comes to late maintenance and mold and if it really affects the Building Decision, then the municipality can take enforcement action. Mrs Beckerman talks about five municipalities knocking on the door about overdue maintenance in their homes. If that affects the Building Decision, the municipality can enforce. I would therefore like to keep a mirror in front of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr Koerhuis asks a lot of questions to the author. He makes it a bit exciting if the VVD is going to vote for it, but frankly I'm starting from that. The PvdA and GroenLinks made agreements with the cabinet and the coalition in the housing agreement, and this is one of them. Can Mr Koerhuis simply confirm that the VVD supports this change of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u46	I'd like to point out that I'm not against the bill. But then my questions will have to be answered. They need to be properly answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u47	I am confident that Mr Nijboer and the Minister will answer these questions properly. It is good that Mr Koerhuis is also showing his other side and yet he is going to intervene in the free rental sector. That's what needed to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u48	In 2017, we had a VVD Minister of Housing, Mr Blok, who then indicated that the housing market is finished. Four years later, we're here. I hear Mr Koerhuis complaining about Mr Nijboer's own-initiative proposal. I hear him asking a lot of questions. He finds it all difficult, that's my impression. The left-wing parties want to throw it all over the bow of Father State, as Mrs Beckerman pointed out. But can I draw the conclusion here this afternoon that Mr Koerhuis is only standing up for the cottage milkers? Or does he recognize the excesses at the rental market?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u49	I have often indicated that this is no surprise to Mr Terpstra; the VVD and the CDA are drawing together on the need to build more. New build prices have to go down. That's where we hang out. Local authorities are certainly making too many demands. As a result, new building prices become too high. I'm also sure for lower new build prices. I also see that in some neighbourhoods, in Amsterdam and Utrecht, rents are rising very rapidly in the short term, as a result of too little new construction. Those rents have to go down, so do I. Only that must be done mainly by means of more offer. VVD and CDA are also involved in this. We need to build more. Especially in cities where the brake is on, in Amsterdam and Utrecht, we need to build more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis, for your input. We shall then be ready for the last speaker on the side of the Chamber today. That will be Mr Bishop, who will speak on behalf of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Let me go along with Mr Nijboer's words of appreciation. Always nice to take up the legislative task itself, to put the teeth in it and then to come up with a good result. The proposal has a very noble aim: to protect tenants from large rent increases. The aim of the bill is to support the SGP Group wholeheartedly. Good landlordship also means that landlords offer affordable rentals and realistic rent increases to their tenants. And fortunately, by far most landlords have eyes for their tenants. Indeed, there are so-called cottage milkers, who impose excessive rent increases, but it is too far for us to stick that label to the liberalised or liberal sector, the free sector, as if every landlord were potentially a house milker with all the negative connotations of that. Mr. Chairman. We do wonder whether the generic measure proposed in this legislative proposal has the desired effect. I have some doubts about this and I would like to put it to you as well. I understand that this bill is part of the deal, I will say, but I do hope that there is so much openness that the points raised outside the occasional coalition can simply influence the final impact of the bill. That is why we have registered in order to be able to make a contribution. The questions we have affect construction production, investment in homes and initial hires. First of all, the impact on construction production. I have already asked questions about this in the written round and, of course, the Council of State also identifies a problem here. That is why the question, which I sincerely mean seriously, to the initiator: why is the initiator so sure of the fact that the reduction in rents of inflation plus 1% has no effect on housing, on volume, on willingness to invest? I would like to support that, especially now that the transfer tax has increased and there may be more measures hanging over the market. How can we prevent affordable rents, but have even less construction production? 'Cause then we shoot in our foot. How is it prevented, for example, that landlords increasingly opt for temporary rental contracts? How do you prevent that? Current low construction production and low supply in the free sector is one of the main causes of the sometimes high rent increases. We must stay far away from measures that exacerbate this problem. Then there is investment, especially sustainability, energy saving and that sort of thing. As far as the SGP is concerned, landlords should be allowed to take those sustainability measures or measures that generally improve housing. My first, simple question is: is there enough room for the landlord, the investor, and how is that space then? Can the initiator explain that? For some landlords, often small private landlords who have invested it as a kind of pension, it is already difficult to take sustainable measures. Revenues often do not outweigh costs. If there are any more obstacles, I'm afraid we're gonna lose this group in the sustainable operation. My specific question to the author is how he sees it prevented. Is the initiator willing to make an improvement or sustainability of the landlord's home more attractive? If the house is improved or made more sustainable, the rent may be increased once. I have a few questions about that. Does this not prevent large investments because they simply cannot be recouped? Or does this not create a one-off, yet excessive rent increase? Why can't rent increases be made step by step after investments? I appreciate a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the initial hires. The rent restrictions are also likely to have an impact on those initial rents. Due to the higher starting rents the flow may deteriorate even further. I ask the initiator how he looks at this problem. How are these problems solved without all kinds of measures and restrictions? Mr. Chairman. Despite the hard work of Mr Nijboer and the sincere appreciation we have for this, we are not quite convinced that this is the best approach and that it provides sufficient instruments to achieve the objective. We support the aim, once again, but we also have to face the disadvantages of the approach to the rental market fairly. But perhaps that is what we are going to take as a starting point for the initiator to take away our concerns. I look forward to answering the questions with more than average interest. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you for your input, too. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u53	I wish the initiator and his support, but also the Minister and her staff good luck in preparing the response, which will take place at another time. I'm closing the meeting for today. Thank you.
