ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr President, I have the feeling that your Members are not quite ready for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u4	May I request silence in the Chamber? Go ahead, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u5	I had arrived at the block varia and that starts with a block of greening. Mr Van der Voort asked why there was a reduction in tax incentives. I don't think that's true. There is no question of a decrease. The cabinet, as this Chamber knows, has taken almost 7 billion additional climate measures and made 600 million of them available around the electric car for the period 2022-2025. Mr Ester asked about the reduction of the cap in the addition how the cabinet prevented tax-enhancing cars from disappearing abroad via the second-hand market over time. By lowering the cap, demand in the business market is more directed towards cheaper emission-free models. This, in our view, improves the connection to the private second-hand market and reduces the risk of export. That's one of the arguments why we lowered the cap. Are you prepared to investigate whether electric cars five years old or older could be brought under the youngtimer scheme, Mrs Prast asked? My predecessor has already investigated that once. He concluded that that solution would not be effective because the extension of catalogue value to market value would also apply to cars where there is no export risk. In addition, there was a problem that with these measures it would not be possible to reach the private market where you want to keep the cars. In addition, there is a significant budgetary impact. What we did do in the August decision-making process, I say to Mrs Prast, is that we moved from the business market to the private and second-hand market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u6	Before the suspension, I was standing here with another colleague to ask another question following Mr Schalk's question on income policy. But I get the impression that the Secretary of State is perhaps going into this in the second term. I am at peace with that, because I made quite a big speech and he had no reason to respond to it. But it's up to him, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it would be better to concentrate on this in the second term, also given that I agreed with Mr Schalk. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Prast asked why VAT on public transport and not on aviation and shipping. Public transport in the Netherlands is covered by the reduced VAT rate. Under the VAT directives on international passenger transport by air and shipping, the Netherlands cannot levy on the part outside the Netherlands. The reason to apply a zero rate for the Dutch part is practical and prevents administrative complications. Mrs Prast also asked about the European flight tax. No, I have to rephrase: in the run-up to a European flight tax. For the amount of the flight tax, I have to refer to the current situation, as it is now. Under this cabinet I have led myself to both Chambers a differentiation to business class. We had a discussion on this at the time, I thought with Mrs Prast's predecessor. Yes, I'm quite sure: Mrs Teunissen. At that time I also indicated that such differentiation would make the levy much more complicated. Mrs Teunissen then argued, which is correct, that other countries do. But we had just chosen this very simple design, which is quite easy to implement because there are very few taxpayers and because it is a very simple system because it runs through airports. Mr Van der Voort felt that fiscal policy on the environment and climate was a blur. I was a little disappointed in that image. I think the cabinet has taken steps towards fiscal greening. I mentioned the CO levy industry this morning, I have just mentioned the flight tax and also the promotion of electric cars. If Mr Van der Voort means that there will still be a spade on top of it, I would say: wait one more day. Mr. Chairman. Let's see what else I had around greening. No, I'm actually here. Mr Ester asked: why are the 'greening', which is not really greening, but I call it 'greening', contrary to the National Prevention Agreement and the desire for a smoke-free generation not to increase excise duties on tobacco? This cabinet did indeed want to leave that to the next cabinet. Then corona support, an important point. There are a lot of questions about that. I'd like to say a little bit more about that. We have about EUR 19 billion in tax debt. That's a lot of money. This instrument may be the least known of all the corona instruments used by the cabinet, but it may have been one of the most important, especially in the beginning, and again now. I also said last year that I am proud of how the Tax Administration deployed and implemented this instrument. But it's an instrument you have to watch out for. We have now extended it again in the context of the current limited lockdown, but any further expansion will, of course, lead to a further build-up of debt with the Tax Administration. We have shared a very generous repayment regime with the House of Representatives, but I can imagine that it is a good thing that I repeat it here again. Only in October of next year will these debts start to be repaid for five years. That's exorbitantly long, but we do that because we don't want to get entrepreneurs into extra trouble. A few months ago, just after the summer, we added that as viable companies with debt and yet unable to meet those deadlines in those five years, we are prepared to conclude some sort of reorganisation agreement. In doing so, we will take a step back to everyone who knows the Tax Administration well and understand what a shock this is for the Tax Administration when it comes to the preferred position. In other words, where the Tax Administration, the State, normally has a double position, we will be in the same position as all other creditors. That is what the Cabinet has done to ensure that there is an additional incentive for the other creditors to step back. It has been neither my intention nor the intention of the cabinet to renounce it. I thought I said a lot about that last year. I find debt cancellation unfair to those who have paid nicely. We also think it will not be necessary. But I repeat my point, that earlier in the House of Representatives was discussed very extensively, that we have to watch out for this instrument, because it sounds very attractive, but of course it has something of, in good Dutch, kicking the can down the road. Sometimes that can be useful, but if the problem is not liquidity but solvency, it will end. Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions about the Tax Administration and the feasibility of legislation and ICT. Actually, I took care of it this morning. I would also like to say to Mrs Geerdink that I have committed myself to the House of Representatives, following a question by Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA, to organise a briefing on how the ICT capacity of the Tax Administration is used and how to deal with it. I'd also like to offer that to the First Chamber. This can help to gain insight, including in Mr Van der Linden's question as to why it is so complicated to make such an extra VAT booth. For all these questions, I would like to refer to that briefing. I think that's gonna help us get an insight into that. A similar kind of question is: can the Tax Administration handle the electricity directives from the EU? That's not easy. When implementing e-commerce regulations, we have seen that things have gone very wrong and that it has remained with the Tax Administration for too long. Then we put in some kind of emergency trail. It turned out okay in the end. But that question is entirely justified. There's a lot of exogenous pressure on the IRS. Mr Van der Linden asked about something that is at the heart of the dilemmas I outlined this morning, namely a simplification of the complex tax system. I said a lot about that this morning. Yeah, I think that's what everyone wants. At the same time, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. That should mean, I say to Mr Van der Linden, that if you really want to go to a simple system, everyone should abandon their hobby horses. This requires a solution to a famous political problem, namely the collective action problem, which in itself stimulates everyone to want to regulate their own things in such a system. That was a little entrapment, Mr. Chairman, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u8	I totally agree with the Secretary of State. Of course, that's a huge horde to take. If it were simple, it would've already happened, I'd report it. Wouldn't it be worth trying to see if we could pull that a little more outside the cabinet, the new cabinet, the government? Can we, as a Chamber or as a State General and Cabinet together, look at this openly in order to see if we can take steps? Would that be an appeal to all of us who can support the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u9	It is, of course, entirely up to this Chamber and to the other side of the Chamber to take such initiatives. I would just like to point out that after a few months of negotiations with four parties, I have seen how difficult that is. So it does require a lion's heart from Mr Van der Linden to do this with Mr Van der Linden. But, of course, the Chamber is totally free to develop such initiatives. I have said it before in this Chamber: I myself doubt the wisdom of trying to simplify the tax system with a great shock. The question is: I would like to give this to Mr Van der Linden in the Christmas period to consider whether a great shock is working there. You could say, "If there's a big shock, you can trade out and get everybody." My own experience after a lot of years is that such a great shock can only actually happen in the tax system if a lot of money is available, as in the period around 2000, when Salmon and Supposedly built the current system. The second is that there must be political agreement on the main points. But that's up to your own political ingenuity. So it's not easy, I'm just saying. I mean, it's not up to the Secretary of State to say whether he thinks an initiative from the Chamber is a good idea or not. Any simplification initiative deserves support, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u10	Finally, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u11	We are not so much concerned with the shock - perhaps in thinking - but with the dot on the horizon where we could work with each other. The need for money, a lubricating oil transition, is clear. In that respect, we have spent 80 or 90 billion on the pandemic in two years, and a little bribe for such a revolution might be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u12	Secretary of State, to make sure your colleague also has some time left later...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u13	Sure. Mr President, I'm almost done. It's unbelievable. I'm almost through. I would just like to say one thing about box 3. I agree with all the criticism of the current box 3. I do not agree with those members of your Chamber. They are also very well to be found in the House of Representatives who blame me for that. You can blame me for everything, but you can't blame me for this. I am the first Secretary of State within a decade to be able to make a proposal, which is presumably submitted by the upcoming cabinet, and I hope so for a box 3 based on real returns. That's what's gonna happen. 2025 does not come from my unwillingness, but from the fact that the Tax Administration simply cannot handle such a big change faster, and that is still art and flying. That box 3 will be a box 3 based on real returns. Mr Crone's question, which I see coming up from my corner of the eye, is: why not opt for a capital tax, which is much simpler? In the end, you have to be honest. All the literature in the field of power taxation says you have to do two things. You can load the return on the power and the level. Such a load on power is a level load. This proposal for box 3, which I hope will come from the new cabinet, will be a proposal based on return. The fact that some political parties, including mine, in the electoral programme add a capital charge at the level to that, is up to those political parties, but this is where we are at the moment and I am quite sure that you will find that strange with all the negative opinions of Advocates-General and so on quite proud that this has been achieved. This was an inheritance that I didn't really ask for, I'm telling you quite honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u14	Then we have an unveiling, namely that D66 has turned in an important election point. Anyway, we'll see about that tomorrow. My question was more: is this to be carried out? Are we gonna get another execution machine? How do you measure efficiency? You yourself said in the pieces: is your own house coming in? How do you measure your own house, purchase value, sales value, etc.? So that's gonna be a drama. That is why many say: do a flat charge with a large exemption of a tonne or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u15	In my words, Mr Crone has heard political statements that I have not made. So for all the journalists listening in, I have not made a single statement on what is and is not in the coalition agreement. I merely said that my party had a capital charge in addition to this box 3 tax on real returns. I say to Mr Crone: this is feasible. We've had an external agency investigate this extensively, because I thought it might be possible. And this can be done. All sorts of difficult questions arose from that. I want to be very brief and powerful about that. It's not easy to enter this. That is why it takes a number of years. Mr Crone puts his finger on the sore spot: the hardest thing is this in real estate. The question of whether to bring your own house under box 3 is essentially unrelated to this question. You can do that, or you can't do that. I'm just saying, maybe I can get Mr. Van Rooijen to rest, but it didn't work out, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u16	Finalizing, Mr. Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u17	Yeah, short. I mention the proposal by Cnossen and Jacobs to make a flat-rate levy, because then you might have the best of both worlds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u18	I'm really gonna leave this to the new Secretary of State. This is shaping.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u19	Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u20	I don't really need that kind of rest, but the Secretary of State had already understood that. My question is not about the coalition agreement, but about the plans that he himself has developed. He said that the house may or may not belong to box 3, but in response to Mr Crone's question I wonder: what is the return? That is not the value that can go down and rise, because then it becomes another kind of capital charge. What is the return of your own home in box 3? In box 1 it is already doubtful, but in box 3 of course completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u21	I am not going to answer this, because I would say what is in the cabinet plans of the present cabinet that have not yet been sent to the House of Representatives. That's the first problem. The second problem is that with everything I say, I give half a hint of what is and is not in the coalition agreement. I'm not gonna do it. This cabinet never intended to transfer its own home to box 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u22	I suggest we get the Secretary of State to finish the varia block later. Then the other Secretary of State will have some time. Do you have a brief follow-up question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u23	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't have asked the question like that, but I think the Secretary of State provoked me a little bit. I understand the fact that he wants to get back to rest for a while. I do understand that, but you do understand that there is a pressing question: does the house stay in box 1 or can it even come out, what is our preference?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u24	I understand that's a pressing question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u25	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that when we talk about the real return, that the return is after inflation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u26	The logical tax base is the real return, i.e. after inflation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u27	That own house has to go to box 3. They should have done that 22 years ago. The plans were ready. It wasn't accepted by parliament back then. Too bad. My question was another, namely the plan prepared by the Secretary of State for the next cabinet. His answers are on box 3 new style. But my question was: 'I listened to that in Mr Essers's contribution that you should actually develop a broader view on the tax treatment of assets.' Box 3 has a place in it, but that's not the only one. Is that part of the Secretary of State's plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u28	No, I promised the House of Representatives that it would be wise for a cabinet so decommissioned to stop sending it to the Chamber. I talked about the effect of box 3 on real returns. So there is no longer a broader consideration of power. That's what I promised the Chamber and it's ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u29	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u30	Wouldn't it be wise for the Secretary of State to say to his successor that it would be a good idea to take that broad view, to prevent you from preparing for one part of the tax system a rapid change of law, however necessary, but that you have actually lost the broader view of whether you are achieving a stable tax treatment of assets? Wouldn't that be a nice recommendation in the normo-treating conversation with the new cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u31	If Mr Vendrik asks for a commitment that I will say to the new Secretary of State or Minister, or whatever, that a broad view of the capital charge is important, I will gladly do so. He can check with the other Secretary of State later. Mr. Chairman. I still owe the answer to two questions from Mr Raven van OSF. The IZB is not regulated in the Tax Plan but in the Municipal Act. The IZB is levied on real estate. Indeed, in the tariff arrangement, only differentiation by type of real estate is possible, i.e. housing and non-residential properties. I understand the wish of Mr Raven, who pleads for a change of the system in the municipal law, but that is not in my area. That lies with the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Then there is Mr Raven's second question. He has drawn attention to no-cure-no-pay companies regarding the valuation of homes. This costs municipalities 26 million. Let me start by saying that it is a very good thing that citizens who have difficulty in communicating with the government have the opportunity to get support here. Those no-cure-no-pay agencies contribute to the accessible nature of legal protection in the Netherlands. The image that NCNP is unjustly earning disproportionate in appeal and appeal procedures has been a reason for an investigation by the WODC. That WODC report was published early this year. In accordance with the February cabinet response, I consulted the parties concerned on the results of the report. First there was an individual discussion and in January there is a first round table with all those involved, in order to improve the process together. I think the short answer is, I say, looking at Mr Raven, that it has the attention of the cabinet and that in January there will be a round table with those concerned about no cure, no pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u32	A new report has been published by COELO. That's from November 9, 2021. The discussion has been further explored in this context. That could be a matter for the new cabinet to actually zoom in on. Yesterday I asked for the debate to be held at least on the 26 million that it already costs for the municipalities, in order to keep in mind some sort of compensation for that. Perhaps you can promise to put your successor on that trail. OSF would like to play an intermediary role in this. Then there's a second element. You refer to the Municipal Law and say that it is not directly in your field. But we have been waiting for ten years and there are about ten municipalities dealing with this problem. SMEs in these municipalities face very high WPA values and very high WPA rates every year. Then they are more or less the child of the account in those municipalities. There really needs to be a solution to that. Here too, I would ask you to put that on the agenda with your successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u33	Sure. I would like to report both issues to my successor, but I would say that the first issue is primarily a matter for the Minister of the Interior. On the second issue, I would very much like to mention that point. I am not going to say the word 'compensation' here, but I will draw attention to this issue. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my last comment, I'm sorry, it's going to be a minute after two. I haven't heard the word "infamous" in so long and I liked it so much that I wanted to repeat it once: the infamous blacklist. The Secretary of State and I and the Minister had a debate last week and were invited by the House of Representatives tomorrow for a two-minute debate on FSV. That is a very serious matter; one of the first things we encountered in our term of office. In any case, we know that there is one group of about 8,000 people, we think, who has been severely damaged by this. Those are people who are not allowed a friendly debt restructuring. We're trying to find out if that's right or wrong, but we think those people have been really wronged. Following Mr Snels' motion, then by GroenLinks in the House of Representatives, I am working on a compensation scheme. With all the others on that list, there is a complicated question: what do you do with people who have been wrongly on a list, whose privacy has been violated, but who have not been harmed by it? We're thinking about that, too. That is an enormous task for my successor, and I regret to say that I cannot spare him having to look at this subject. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my first term and I am happy to give the floor... but not yet. Not quite yet. Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u34	I am still missing an answer to the question of the extension of the first-drive profit tax and the tax avoidance, provoking effect that this entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u35	You were right to miss that answer. I have had a long debate on this with Mrs Maatoug, colleague of Mr Vendrik in the House of Representatives. That debate ran along the following lines. Mrs Maatoug wanted to amend the tax plan immediately and get this out. I pointed out to her at the time that companies not only split up because of this argument, but also because of other arguments. Secondly, I have pointed out that companies which are in good faith and do not split up for this reason are in themselves subject to a tax disadvantage if we do not introduce this. In addition, whatever I said straight away in the Lower House, this extension of the first disc in itself, considered in isolation, may lead to more split-up. That's a truth like a cow. I did not recommend the amendment in the House of Representatives. I would like to be consistent, so I do not intend to change anything about that at the moment, too, again, given the state in which the cabinet is in. It could just... no, I'm not saying anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u36	Thank you. Members also have a second term, but I can still allow short interruptions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u37	I thought the Secretary of State had a moving insight, but that's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u38	That is not a question but a observation. And it's a false observation. As I have already said in the House of Representatives, on the occasion of a motion by Mr Delors, I always remember my own party members, Mr Hammelburg, with someone else, Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union, that we are going to monitor the effect of this cutting. That was the progressive insight that the newspapers thought they were finding. That's right. We are concerned that this is going to happen, but on the other hand, this is a fine regime for good-will SMEs in itself, and we also need to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u39	Then I'll go with you to Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u40	I have listened with great interest to your initial sentences about the four dilemmas you have shared with us. That took some time, but I thought that was a very intelligent beginning. I would like to thank you for that. You already feel: this is a stepping stone to a negative remark. That is the conclusion that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u41	And above all, a question, I hope?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u42	... almost ten questions from my group have not been answered. We are talking about the high tax rate on energy prices and not an increase in excise duty on tobacco next year. That's totally contrary to the Prevention Agreement. It's about the VIK, the retroactivity to January 1, 2021. Are the companies that used them compensated? It is about cutting up companies to avoid the boarding rate at the OECD minimum tax. We were just talking about that. It's about the MIA. How do we reach those who are left behind? And I can go on like this. So I'm not really happy about it. Then we can do three things. Or you will go into that now, but that takes a bit of the momentum out of the discussions, and it may not make the President very happy either. The second option is that you will return to that in the second term. And the third option is that you write a note in which you will answer the questions of my group. I will leave the direction to you, but I have noticed that I am not the only one who is a little dissatisfied with the number of questions that have remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u43	I fully understand that, but I would point out to Mr Ester that a huge number of questions have been asked. I didn't count them. I've been trying to get as many things together as I can. If I have forgotten specific things he would have liked to know, of course I would like to say that again. I have just dealt with tobacco duty. Some of Mr Ester's questions are a little under the heading that, when I answer them, I am really confused about my role at the moment. I said what I wanted to say about tobacco duty, namely that this cabinet is not going to do so. Do you want me to say anything else? On the MIA question, too, I said that the MIA could go higher, as Mr Van der Voort wanted, but also lower, as Mr Ester wanted. I've tried to get all the key points out. I'd like to mention one more. The question about the BIK can be taken with me in the second term, namely the retroactive effect. That's a good question that I didn't answer. On the other questions, however, I would really like to ask the First Chamber to take note of the state of the cabinet and of this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u44	Of course, I understand very well what the Secretary of State says. The question then is which questions are answered and which questions are not answered. Is there an idea? However, I have noticed that many of our questions have not been answered. I am very sorry to hear that, because I am very interested in your answers to that. Most of the questions I asked were independent of the missionary status of the cabinet and the cabinet that is now coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u45	Let's do this. I haven't left yet. If Mr Ester wishes to repeat those questions in second term, be my guest, but I warn you that I will manage them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u46	I had a very specific set of questions about KLM and tax delays. Would the Secretary of State be willing to answer this question now or later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u47	I'd be happy to do that now. Mrs Prast knows better than anyone that I cannot answer questions about individual companies. I thought it was an open secret, but I'm not going to say anything else about size and so on. But there are big companies in the tax reprieve, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u48	Let me add to the list of questions that are still waiting for an answer. One may have been given in the large stream of words concerning the targeted exemption for homework costs, whether the burden of proof was on employers or employees. That was the first question. The second question was a more general one. It was about the Council of State's remark that increasing use of policy rules is being raised and that the Cabinet has announced that it will develop a framework for this purpose. Is there a timetable for that and will the Chamber be informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u49	This is a coincidence, it must be a coincidence, but it is on top of my stack: the framework to which Mr Schalk refers is still under development. I expect my successor to be able to send this to both Chambers in the first half of 2022. So you will be served immediately. And I'll take your first question with me in second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u50	In fact, I do share the negative remark that my colleague Mr Oomen-Ruijten referred to earlier. I have made a detailed speech and I have prepared it in detail, just like Esser. I don't think my name's even mentioned at all. I didn't get an answer at all. I am, of course, open to detailed second-term responses, but I fear that I will have to repeat many things in the second-term. I would like to spare the colleagues that. So let's take a look at a practical modality. The officials still have time with you to prepare a little. I'm not at rest here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u51	I should never have used that term with Mr Van Rooijen, because that was, of course, an insult in itself. I should not have used the word'rest' with Mr Van Rooijen, that is clear, so I apologise for that. I will see what I can answer to these questions in the second term, but Mr Van Rooijen's questions were in extremes what I said to Mr Ester and to Mr Schalk earlier, about questions about the level of the AOW, whether something is just or not, etc. I'll give it a try later. I will try to answer as factually as possible, but I really will stay away from that political point. But I don't know if that's what he means. If he just means factual questions, I'm gonna answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u52	That's perfectly clear. I very much agree with that. My argument was not so much to hear or receive things as an answer about the future. I have presented a detailed picture of the current situation, which I am not happy with. I have also explained this in detail. I wanted to have a reflection on this from the Secretary of State, on the status quo, regardless of how this critical status quo can be improved in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. I'll do my best. Shall we leave it at that? Otherwise, this period will be even longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u54	Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Supplements and Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u55	Mr. Chairman. It's been about two years since I was involved here as one of your members in the treatment of the Tax Plan. We also discussed the issue of childcare payments, among other things. It is now an honorable task for me to try to solve these problems. Fortunately, a lot has been achieved recently. As a result of your questions, I'm going to tell you a little bit more about that. I was also inspired by my colleague, Mr Vijlbrief, to tell you about two great lessons we have learned in recent times in solving this problem. One is about a dilemma, namely about speed versus care. I would like to say a little more about this in my answers. It is partly the same dilemma that has been outlined in the context of taxes: are you going to quickly compensate many people and are you doing it grossly, or are you opting for a careful approach? That is not a choice that you can only make from the policy maker, the politics, but one that, of course, also has to do with the question of what the people who are doomed really want. What I have learned in recent times is, in particular, that care is incredibly important for many of the injured parents. The second theme is, as far as I am concerned, the human dimension. That, too, is a subject that we exchanged extensively with each other two years ago. At that time we mainly talked about the human measure as a human measure in the system itself. Are you able to apply rules to the specific situations of the specific people for whom the policy is intended? We were talking about the human dimension in the context of services. About counters. About making sure you have people who do the job well, who are well trained, who have the right policy freedom to do things and who have the confidence of their executives to do that. We were talking about the human measure of enforcement, for example, and we were talking about trust. What I have actually learned in recent times is that, when we were talking about the human dimension, we were often talking about the ability to do so, but we were talking too little about talking to those for whom the policy is intended. It constantly, not only in policy making, but also in implementation, check with each other whether what you have devised actually works. Of course, you can do that by speaking very much to those for whom that policy is intended, but also to those for whom it is intended, and that is also not insignificant with those who implement it at the basis of an organisation. That is, I have learned, one of the things that we have missed most in all those years with the problems surrounding the childcare allowance. Talking to those who were meant for the policy. Speaking with, and of course listening to, the employees who had to implement the policy. On top of that, make sure that we also talk to each other when it comes to the institutions involved in implementation. I think that all those reports that have been published recently, from the judiciary, from the Council of State, from ourselves and the parliamentary survey, show that there was not enough talk with the people for whom this policy was intended, but also that we often did not speak with each other. For example, the judiciary indicated that they had doubts at some point, but that they did not discuss them with the Council of State, and vice versa. There are reports from the Ombudsman, but in the end those who had to change policy with those parties did not speak well. When we talk about that issue of human size and how we ensure that this problem is never again prevented, what is a great claim, and what matters is that our lesson is not just human size with space for customization, with counters, with well-educated people at the base, with confidence. Above all, we must ensure that we keep in constant contact with those people for whom we make that policy, to ensure that, if something goes wrong, we are able to adjust earlier. I have also learned these lessons in the context of the recovery of the childcare allowance. I will come back to that in a moment when I am going to answer the questions. That's what I'd like to start with. Let me give you an introduction to where we are now. As you have read in the progress report, we are working with man and power to restore everything that has gone wrong. In the meantime, a small 50,000 people have reported to us. For 40,000 people we have done a first test. This showed that 23,000 parents have been hurt and a large part of them have now received a first payment of €30,000, a large part of them already more. All public debts were then cleared. We've started resolving the private debt. We have already completed a so-called integrated assessment with a large part of the parents, with the aim of achieving the objective we set earlier: 8,300 integrated assessments. In other words, not only are we working very hard, there are also many results being achieved. But what also turned out to be clear is that there is still much to do. Not only have an incredible number of people reported around this time last year that were still about 9,000 parents and now there are 50, 000 parents and we have also learned that we needed additional arrangements for the additional target groups that we didn't initially have in mind: children, the ex-partners of those who have been duped by surcharges, parents abroad and of course also affected by other fees. It is important that I come back to why we want to make these supplementary arrangements in a moment. That's because children have gotten into a lot of trouble, especially the children who are older by now, because they have grown up in poverty and there were not enough resources and opportunities to encourage them to go to school, for example, to make sure that they didn't get into trouble, that there was attention and time for them. As far as the ex-partners are concerned, there is actually the same thing as with those who apply for the allowances, because in many cases it was completely arbitrary who was the applicant for the allowances. It had to be one of the two partners, but that means, if you're not together anymore, that the person who accidentally applied for the supplement will be compensated and the person who didn't happen to do so at the time. So we'd like to fix that. Furthermore, there is a problem of a considerable amount of other allowances, such as rent and care payments, and not least of parents abroad. In order to ensure that we continue to improve the approach to recovery, we have recalibrated. I've sent information about that to this Chamber before. The essence of it is that we have asked a large group of parents what better to do about their recovery. We have learned from that that recovery is far from just about financial recovery. It's also about emotional recovery. In fact, in many cases financial compensation of any size is totally insufficient to allow parents to start their lives again, to make a fresh start. We have dealt with the review very extensively and we have drawn a number of important conclusions. In the recovery process it is important to have personal contact with parents much earlier. This means that we are able to distinguish much better whether people are heavier or less heavily injured, rather than being helped or perhaps waiting a little longer, but also, above all, to identify what is needed. We want to do so, among other things, by introducing a so-called trilogue. The municipality, the parent and the repair organisation work together to identify the needs to be able to choose and differentiate the right approach on this basis. The following is also important as part of the project. That's what I've been trying to tell you with the numbers I just gave you. There are also parents who do not appear to be affected by the childcare allowance. And what is important is that these parents are motivated by us and that we make sure that they, if they do have problems, and that is what many of them have come to the right place. This also requires a greater role of municipalities to provide parents with a permanent point of contact in the right and targeted support. Furthermore, it is incredibly important to pay much more attention to emotional recovery in the approach. In the context of the review, we have also looked at possible interventions in the recovery arrangements as we have them, the financial recovery arrangements. There are two directions that we want to investigate further. One is about making the compensation of part of the actual intangible damage more part of the integral assessment. The other is working with so-called fixing agreements, in which it is possible to determine, together with the parent, what financial compensation should be fixed in order to achieve actual satisfaction. This means that we will work in the coming period on the basis of everything that needs to be done and on the basis of what we started in the review. We will discuss this revised approach with the House of Representatives. It is special that we first discuss this subject here and next Thursday in the House of Representatives. On the basis of this review, we will come up with additional arrangements for further implementation of all this. The idea is that we do this on the basis of the new arrangements, sound execution tests and a new planning. We make sure that we help as many parents as possible as quickly as possible, although not unimportant parents have always said, even in this review, that carefully helping, personally, transparently and on the basis of very clear agreements, is heavily elected for them rather than quick handling. They consider this personal, careful approach to be very important. I think that has a lot to do with the fact that many parents consider it important to get a little more confidence in this way that they are actually compensated in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u56	The Secretary of State will first discuss the review further with the House of Representatives. It's not finished yet. Careful, transparent and personal, that's what the Secretary of State just said. It has to be done. Not only quickly, of course as soon as possible, but also carefully, transparently and personally. That's what the bad guys are insisting on. I share that with the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State say a little more about how this is being put into practice? Does the Secretary of State implicitly acknowledge that, looking back on the past two years, this has actually not been done sufficiently so far, so not sufficiently carefully, personally and transparently? There are a lot of parents who are still in uncertainty and confusion about how things are going to go on and how this nightmare can finally end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u57	What we intend to do is this. Anyone can report to us now. That happens, whether or not you've been duped by child care. We think it is important to clarify with the first intake, the first phone call you make, whether it is someone who is at the right point of contact with us. If you're not, if you're on the wrong street with us, it's incredibly frustrating for the parent or the person themselves. It also ensures that others have to wait longer. We need to make that clearer. Above all, we want people who are in different ways in trouble and turn to us to be helped in the right place. In that sense, we have really become a window for people who say: I'm in trouble, I can't go anywhere, I don't feel heard anywhere, I sign up there. If we do those first tests, which we can do within six months at the moment, but probably much faster in the coming time, we really need to tell people who are not eligible: we do not think you are affected by the childcare allowance; we think you should be helped in another place, and we would like to refer you to that. With those who have been duped, we will sit down at the table as soon as possible to see what can happen with municipalities. This so-called integral assessment is only started after a considerable time. Although we do take the first test, someone who has been duped will receive €30,000, debts will be dealt with and so on, but the follow-up discussion on how to proceed will not take place until much later. In particular, parents who are more heavily injured, and who are probably also entitled to much more than that €30,000, may, in our view, have to wait far too long in the current situation, without that being clear to them. We want to make this much more transparent, clear and precise. By the way, and that is something we want to preserve, many parents are very pleased that when their full assessment starts, they are assigned a so-called personal business manager. They're very happy about that. So we notice that we need to keep the personal, that we have in the current process, mainly because it helps parents very much. We need to see how we can bring that forward, where sometimes it is only later in the process and parents have to wait a while. That is exactly what we want to do in this review.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u58	In my view, the Secretary of State says in so many words: we recognise that it could have been better or should have been better, not only in terms of speed, but also in terms of care, transparency and personality. And: from that conclusion we will do things differently and better in the coming year based on the review operation. Does the Secretary of State also have the confidence that, if it is subsequently implemented, the Tax Office will be able to do so? Because if you look at the implementation of the recovery operation so far, I would say that it has at least been very difficult and has not had the speed and care we all, probably the Secretary of State, would have hoped for. That's what's wrong with me so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u59	I do not share the conclusion that we are not careful. That's the first thing. I think it's important, and parents also think it's important, that it happens carefully. That's what we're doing right now. So I do not share that conclusion with you. If you're asking if it's gonna be fast enough, we're not gonna find it. That's why we did that review. In addition, we have not only looked at whether it can be done faster. We have noticed, after the re-examinations we have done, that this can only be limited, because parents still want to be helped very carefully. But, of course, we've been looking at how to do better. In "better" there is much more personal contact and much more, faster and earlier in the process personal contact. In particular, this is to ensure that parents are clear about the process, that it is a more transparent process, but also that parents who are more affected are helped rather. Fortunately, we have been able to test a lot of people already. As far as I am concerned, it is also a good thing that we have introduced this €30,000 scheme or Cathouse scheme. But our wish is, of course, to improve that. Your question was: can the tax authorities carry out this? One of the most important things we are going to do is to carefully review these plans, together with the municipalities, because they also have an important role in this, and also in connection with the supplementary schemes, such as the child scheme, the ex-partner scheme, the schemes for other allowances, and the scheme for parents abroad. In combination with this, we want to ensure that there is an executable package for the Tax Administration, for any other interested parties and certainly for the municipalities. I find that incredibly important, because that quick financial help is very good and it helps people out of trouble, but for emotional recovery and getting people's lives back on track, we need more. So we will have to take more time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u60	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u61	I welcome what the Secretary of State says, but she cannot insist that implementation has been successful so far? Not only have we, also the Secretary of State, been working on this for two years now and it is taking much longer than we thought, but mistakes have also been made. People have received letters they should never have received. People haven't been treated personally at all, but they got a letter that turned out to be another mistake. Can the Secretary of State now promise us that with this review there will be something on the track that will stop making that kind of mistakes, because in that sense it will become more careful, more personal and more transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u62	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u63	And that we have the execution for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u64	Finally, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u65	In an implementation organisation I think this is true for every organisation in which people work. It is impossible to say that mistakes are never made again. In this operation, we have always been very transparent about this if we had made a mistake. We have not only reported this to your Chamber and to the House of Representatives, but we have always told this to parents. Fortunately, it has not happened very often that we have sent the wrong mail, etcetera and so on. The fact that it took longer than I thought also has a lot to do with the number of people who have come to us. Again, when I started, two years ago when we had this discussion at the Tax Plan, we were still talking about about about 300 parents in one so-called CAF case. In the meantime, it's about 50,000 people. That also means that we need time to do it. We are no longer just talking about compensating for fraud, or the intensive fraud approach, we are now looking much more broadly at the recovery and also at the target groups we are talking about. So not just the parents, the children, ex-partners and so on. Would I rather we all finish this in a week? Yes, of course. There is no one who wants the recovery to last longer than necessary. At the same time, I think we should also be realistic. If we want to do it right, in the way parents like, in a careful way, in a transparent way and in a very personal way, then we still need time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u66	If we've learned one thing from this case, then it's that you shouldn't just take anything in the thought: that can't be true; surely that's gonna be easy in reality? Reality often turns out to be far more bizarre than you would have imagined. Now Jesse Frederik has written an article in De Correspondent about parental compensation. Jesse Frederik has written a great book about the whole childcare allowance business. Of course you can do all kinds of things, but I thought it was a very interesting book. But if I read his piece in The Correspondent, then he comes up with examples that I think: that can't be true, can he? We've learned, like I said. However, I would like to put this to the Secretary of State to make sure that this cannot be true. Then it's about the compensation of that $30,000. Frederik mentions the gentleman who applied retroactively for childcare allowance for the legal maximum of 230 reception hours in the month, although according to the court ruling, there was no evidence that care was used. That gentleman can get $30,000. A lady who had received €1.256 childcare allowance per month, but who had spent this amount on other cases according to the court: €30,000. Parents who received three years of childcare allowance but could not submit bank statements, reception contracts or invoices for that period: €30,000. A lady who applied for another child care allowance for the child and had it deposited into her own account: €30,000. We all want parents to be compensated, but are these examples true or not true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u67	Well, maybe I'll have to go through my questions in a moment, because you've asked this question before. Of course, I'd be happy to answer that. I think that Jesse Frederik raises two issues in his article, both of which I would like to discuss with you. One is about people getting money when you'd think they shouldn't have gotten money. I think that in the past period I have always discussed with the House of Representatives, but certainly with your Chamber, that we want to be generous, that we want to maintain a high speed and that we also want to work in a way that ensures that people get out of trouble as quickly as possible. This means that I have also said before that money goes, or can go, not necessarily deliberately, to people who are not entitled to it. It could be the other way around. The speedy approach may also mean that someone who does have a right will not get through that light or first test at first. We know these situations, too. I do not know all the individuals mentioned by Mr Essers, but there will certainly be people who have wrongly received €30,000. There are also people who may not get that money until later. But it is of course important to know where that is in line with what we have seen before. Have we seen in advance that that could happen? That's right. We have just said that some compensation also takes place for people who, for example, have received such a label o/gs, intent/great debt. Recovery may have been justified in itself, but we can often no longer see whether it was. We can often no longer see whether this label has been given rightly or wrongly. Our research has shown that, in 94% of cases, we are unable and unable to find it anymore. That's why someone who has such an o/gs label gets compensation from us automatically. So there is a percentage of the group of people who are reporting to us that money can be received, so I am not saying that this is always happening, which we think should not have happened afterwards. We have communicated in advance, including to your Chamber, that that percentage is between 2% and 10%. So far, we're about at that 2%. So we know that there are cases where this is the case. That can be the case if someone is part of such a CAF case, or in case of such an o/gs or something else. But we are very strict when we look at people who, for example, have had a criminal conviction or a fine. That is also one of the themes covered in that book. They are not dealt with automatically, but they are examined carefully first. So this story is based on trust. That's in line with my intro. We are not blind to fraud signals, but we realize that there will be people who will get money even though they may not be entitled to it. Another theme that Jesse Frederik describes in his article is the issue that is much more about the comparison between this recovery operation and other government recovery operations. I actually think that's a theme that belongs more in your room. That is the question of whether we are much more generous here than elsewhere and what lessons we draw from it. I think that another government should think about that too. Perhaps further contemplation will be needed in your Chamber as well. Because yes, we have chosen in this recovery a route that is about being generous and wanting to listen to the story of the parents. We're not going to check everything again, all the receipts, all the situations, because it's often a long time ago and it's not at all to be expected that someone still has all that information. We're gonna check it out. This means that, in some cases, we actually give too much compensation. Once again, however, we have deliberately opted for this approach. Another issue is what we learn from it for possible other recovery operations in the future, which I hope will not be too many. Again, there must be further discussion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u68	Finally, Mr. Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u69	Thank you for this answer, but it doesn't comfort me at all. I understand that, of course, in the rush and in the enormous complexity, things are falling apart. I think that these examples are serious enough. Jesse Frederik even says that the residents of the village of Ivanski, who are known for the famous focal point documentary about Bulgarian fraud, can report as a duped of the supplementing affair because they have a stamp on / gross debt. Well, that may be a bit charged, but I'm asking this question to the Secretary of State. Is there a time when those cases, which we later find should not have been eligible for the €30,000, will be restored? If we let that go, it will be extremely bad for people to realise that we live here in a rule of law. We need to compensate the parents who have suffered real damage as quickly as possible, but I also believe that it should be restored to a rule of law if it is demonstrated afterwards by parents that they were not eligible for the €30,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u70	The question is very clear and, of course, we have considered this issue very carefully in advance. We have said: if we give someone €30,000, we will never recover it. The importance of this is that we want to provide security. If we give an older €30,000 and say, "If it turns out to be wrong afterwards, then we will recover it again," then we will do to these people exactly the same thing that caused them to get into trouble in the first place. We have therefore said very consciously in the recovery operation: we accept a certain degree of overcompensation to people who are not really entitled to it or who are not actually entitled to it, otherwise we will find ourselves in a situation where we are going to recover money again. It has been very consciously chosen in this organisation to help these parents as quickly as possible, in the context of speed and in the context of generous help. So we will not do that, but of course people will no longer be eligible for additional compensation, because that would be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u71	The most commonly used words of the Secretary of State are, I believe, 'fast' and 'careful'. Now it's a bit difficult to quantify, but I think speed can be quantified and I haven't heard of it yet. Are we talking about a ten-year plan here? Are we talking about solving the problems within a year? Within what timeframe should we imagine that the problem as a whole has been resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u72	That is a good question, because every day and every week people report to us as victims of child care problems. This means that people need to be helped every week. Some of the people who come forward do not appear to be eligible, but some of them do. We also know that we have to work with children, with ex-partners, with the people who are suffering from the care or rent allowance or the child-related budget, and with parents abroad. So we're not done. If you ask me exactly when we're done, I can't say. I do not expect it to last another ten years, but I do think we need the time to ensure that we do indeed continue to carry out this very serious problem until the last person has been helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u73	I hear the Secretary of State say that there are still new problems. But on the basis of what is now going on, I think it should be possible to make a timetable of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u74	We've done that before. We've indicated how many people we're helping before the end of the year, how many people we can help in the first quarter. But we have also said in the context of the review: we want to see if this method will help us to speed up. If we were to continue at the current rate, we would still have a few years to go. But we want to see if we can somehow shorten that. That's what we're gonna do. That's why we're doing those execution tests. Then I can tell you more. For now, we know what we're gonna do this year, those 8,300 parents we've already announced. And for now, we know that in the first quarter of next year, we're going to help the first thousands of parents again. But I can't give you an exact deadline right now. I shall now turn to the questions raised by Mr Essers and Mr Schalk. The question was, how are things going with the progress? I've already said more about that. It was about those supplementary arrangements. You asked whether we should not wait until these new arrangements have been put in place to compensate those parents. I think that is a complicated issue, because of course we want to ensure that these new arrangements do not, in any case, cannibalise on the implementation of the recovery of parents. But to wait, perhaps a few more years, with helping children and ex-partners, which I just said weren't the applicants at the time when people were together, and waiting to help people who have been duped by other fees, I wouldn't like that. But it is important, and in that respect, your Chamber is very much in line with what the House of Representatives considers important and what I personally consider very important to see on the basis of good execution tests what could possibly be done together and not what should be done by the Implementation Organization Recovery Fees, i.e. by the Tax Administration. What could possibly be done by other implementing organisations? How can they still help? The House of Representatives has an express wish for this too, for example in the implementation of the child regulations. But it seems very undesirable for these groups to do it all on a temporary basis. I find that very undesirable. At the same time, it is, of course, good to ensure that it is not at each other's expense. I would then like to move on to Mr Ester's questions. He asked: what are the most important bumps to be taken in the context of recovery? I think we've got a couple of bumps in the picture. There is, of course, a large group of people that we still have to help and that we still have to get the full assessment. We want to see how we can make sure that we can help people faster who are probably not eligible for more than €30,000. We want to ensure that we guide people who are not eligible at all to the right place. At least we want to make sure they don't stay in the process with us. We also want, of course, to ensure that the delays we are seeing at present in the case of objections and in the case of the Committee on Actual Damage are resolved as quickly as possible. We've taken all kinds of steps to do that. At the same time, we also see that there is still a lot of work to be done. We see that this personal and careful approach takes time and we also see that additional arrangements are needed. The Kinderombudsman sent me a letter yesterday and said: get on with the child arrangements, because we see that there are a lot of children and especially young adults; most of the effects have arisen with the children who are now older, who are in their early 20s or mid-20s; make sure that you can actually do something about it. That means we still have a lot of work to do to make that recovery happen. I would then like to ask Mr Vendrik and Mr Ester about the legislation. Mr Vendrik asked: what would you like to do with the law on the delegation provisions, which is in the House of Representatives and which has not yet been voted on? This is a subject that, I think, belongs very much in this Chamber. This is about the form in which you bring together the regulation in the context of recovery. In recent years, I have chosen to work very clearly with the idea: I want a basis for helping people as soon as possible. On the basis of the opinion of Mr Donner and his committee, we have begun to make a law. We have always complemented them with policy decisions to ensure that we are able to implement several new regulations. The Council of State has said that Mr Ester also referred to what he really no longer wanted. You need to bring that together in one legislative proposal, a legislative proposal consisting of an existing law and the addition of the policy decisions that are already in it, and you need to ensure that any new regulations, for example for children and ex-partners, are included in that law. I agree with the Council of State. I have therefore indicated in the House of Representatives that I intend to make such a law, i.e. a comprehensive law in which the construction of recovery is indicated. But I need some time for that, because that law still needs to be written and it must then be submitted and dealt with in the House of Representatives and, of course, here too. I was worried that we would be able to implement such a child scheme in time. Nor do I want to work with policy decisions, because of which the Council of State has rightly said that it is a very short-sighted way of regulating this area, in which Parliament is not mentioned at all. That is why I said: let me try to make a law that allows me to make AMvBs, which I can use in anticipation of that legislation. This law is meant to be a safety net, not a law that I actually want to use. I prefer the integral law, but if we get into trouble before then, I'd like to start anyway. That law is now in front of the House of Representatives. We're waiting for the treatment there. He'll come this way if it's okay. As far as the criticism of the Council of State is concerned, I have discussed it extensively with them. I am mainly trying to overcome it by making that one all-encompassing recovery law. It will probably be able to be dealt with in this Chamber in the course of next year. I shall now turn to Mr Van Strien's question on the timetable. It's already been answered. Mr Vendrik's question on the derailment of the trias politician. I tried to say something about this in my introduction. The essence is that there are still many lessons to be learned. Some of them have been drawn as a result of the parliamentary questioning. The cabinet sent a comprehensive letter on this subject. Further investigations have then been carried out, including from the case-law. There is a very readingable examination by the Council of Justice. The Council of State has also looked at its own role. I understand your room is also going to look at the role you played there. Again, of everything we can learn, it is important to bring forward the lessons that are not so much related to the way we make or implement laws, but to the way we work in this country, namely: if you make something and then start doing something, then make sure that you speak to those for whom the policy is intended and continue to evaluate it. Moreover, this is also stated in our cabinet response to parliamentary questioning together with the people involved in the implementation. I am referring not only to the Tax Administration in the case of surcharges, but also to people in the judiciary. For example, I have agreed with the Court of Justice to discuss with the courts, once or twice a year, with the judiciary, what they see going wrong in practice with regard to supplementing legislation. Mr Ester asked how I judge the Council of State's self-reflection. As very important and very good. It is also good to see that the council also makes it clear: what went wrong with us, what happened and how are we going to ensure that we do not let that happen anymore? I think that is a very important subject. But again, I think it is important that everyone who is involved in this should do so, because there are expensive lessons to be learned. Mr Van Apeldoorn's question is whether I agree that we should get rid of the supplement scheme. Perhaps there is something about this in the same piece that has been referred to a few times today and which will be presented tomorrow. I personally think it is very important that we should say this to the cabinet as it has said before, saying goodbye to the supplement system as it is now. I sent a report on this matter to you in December last year, i.e. a year ago, which clearly sets out the possibilities for doing so. We shall see the intentions of the new cabinet. But it is clear that the current system is not doing the right thing and, more importantly, is putting a lot of people in trouble to this day, despite everything we do to prevent it from happening. Then there was a question from Mr Vendrik about the connection with the FSV, which has already been partly answered by my colleague. You asked about the people who FSV did not have access to friendly debt relief. Some of them concern parents who are known to us as part of the recovery of the allowances. What is important is that of the small 50,000 people who have reported to us, about 10,000 also have an FSV registration. On the basis of our recovery schemes, we can help people who did not only have an FSV registration, but are also affected by the childcare allowance. That's about 3,600. For those who are not yet able to help, it is important that we look at this together, above all, whether there has been damage and what compensation arrangements are needed. But that is something that needs to be worked out in the near future. Because if you're disabled from the childcare allowance and didn't qualify for, for example, the Msnp or you're already in legal debt relief, then our arrangements are for supporting you. Those were the questions I got.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u75	Thank you, Secretary of State. Then we now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the two directors for their reply. In my case, it was a lot more generous than in the last General Financial Reviews. Yeah, I'm easy to glue, too, I'm just saying to the Secretary of State for Finance. So that's okay. Mr. Chairman. However, a few points for this second term. The Secretary of State will return to my request for an annual tax avoidance report. I have also looked at the state of affairs of what he sends annually to the House of Representatives. I understand that this mainly controls withholding tax and rulings and that this may be extended to, for example, ATAD 1 or 2. Let me put it in my words. I am actually looking for an annual report that takes a broad view. I refer to the national policy agenda, international relevant developments, such as OECD, BEPS, etc., standing policy, possibly new options for policies that arise, which the cabinet is thinking of, which are being researched, suggested by outside organisations. That's, like, the policy agenda. That needs a good wrap-up: what's good, what's not good, what's good, what's not good? A data and research leg should also be attached to this. That is box 2, where new data, new data that becomes available, for example from country-by-country reporting or CPB-studies are involved. New data from the CBS can also be involved and made relevant to the current policy agenda. Perhaps we could also consider deepening research which is being deported or planned or which has already been carried out, etcetera, etcetera. In short, also the recommendations made by Ter Haar I and II on this point. As dessert, I would also like to establish a relationship with everything that will be done by the Cabinet on the basis of my motion adopted by the AMvB on money laundering. Well, I'd appreciate that kind of annual report in the spring. Could that be possible? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to see a little more precision in replying to the Wiersma package in the second term. Is that really enough to reach out to the people most affected by this energy bill increase, people with energy poverty? Are they really achieved with this package or is it a little less bad again, but has the problem not yet been solved for those people? Mr. Chairman. I missed something in the Secretary of State's reply when it comes to phasing out subsidies on fossil fuels. Let me say that the answer on that point was a bit fluffy. To be honest, that also applies to the answer of the Secretary of State to my questions concerning the legislative proposal on mismatches. It is good that this step is taken, but there are a few crucial choices in this tax avoidance not blocking, but almost legitimising. We are talking about the starting date, the type of loans that have been brought under the bill and the capital injections that have not been brought under. These are sensitive choices which free some of the tax-negligent groups. We know the examples. So I think that the Secretary of State is really allowed to do something more in his reply, because I did not think that it was sufficient. Then there is my most important point. This concerns the extension of the first disk Vpb. We can find out what we think about corporate tax. Whether it should go up or down, whether it's a pinching load or not, I'll leave that for a while. I make the point from the First Chamber that it cannot be the intention in this House, in this House, to launch a proposal for a tax facility that encourages tax avoidance. We have serious suspicions of that and the Secretary of State confirms that. He feels wet and he's gonna do more research. He's also been alerted by his own officials. If that's the case, we're not doing something right. Then we don't help entrepreneurs who work hard and make beautiful products and keep the economy running, but then we help companies that split up businesses purely for tax-driven reasons and thus gain a tax advantage. That can't be what this is for. It is also contrary to the agenda advocated by the Secretary of State in his first term of office, namely that he wants to combat forms of tax avoidance, because it affects fiscal morality. But, Mr President, this proposal is now in the Upper House in full disclosure. The Secretary of State refused to do anything about this in his reply. So I honestly feel entitled to file the next motion. The: Mr Vendrik, Mr Crone, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Prast and Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extension of the first disc encourages Vpb to enter into constructions in order to reduce the tax on profits;]] [[considers that this is undesirable;]] [[calls on the cabinet to send a proposal to Parliament this week to reverse the extension of the first Vpb disc on 1-1-2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u77	I'm also looking at my friends on this side of the room. I am not talking about the political debate on the tax on profits, but it must be worth something to make it clear to the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u78	Your speaking time is over, Mr. Vendrik. Mrs. Geerdink, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u79	Mr. Vendrik wasn't looking at me, so I guess I'll just have to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u80	You have the floor now, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u81	The question is whether this appeal, this motion is not actually an amendment via the back door and whether we should go along with it as the First Chamber. I'd like your reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u82	Amendment is reserved for the Lower House. There are points in the fiscal package that the cabinet has put here in the First Chamber, all of which I have different views on, but I leave them to the Lower House. This is another point. We say that the First Chamber wishes to take a special look at legislation which is permanent and enforceable, which also does justice to what is supposed to happen in society. We have here a provision in the tax on profits that promotes tax avoidance, and that is also recognised. Then the First Chamber would do well to say that this is not the intention. I have put it very broadly; I call on the cabinet to make a proposal by means of this motion not to go down this road. That gives the cabinet room to give further details on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u83	Thank you. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u84	Mr. Chairman. Would you mind if I made another final comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u85	Oh, I thought you were done. Excuse me. Your speaking time is well over. You requested it yourself. It was 4 minutes and you're almost at 6. If you can finish very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u86	Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns feasibility. We read in the newspaper today that the new coalition agreement presented tomorrow has not been or has not yet been passed on by the CPB. I leave that on the other side, but I can assume that this Secretary of State has insisted on the formation of the parties, if not offered that the whole fiscal agenda, which is part of the coalition agreement, will be properly tested for feasibility. Is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u87	Thank you. Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u88	I would like to ask Mr Vendrik about this motion. This proposal to increase the lower level at the lower rate is good for SMEs and for those who benefit from it. Mr Vendrik points to evasive behaviour. In practice, how does he see such an extension or reduction of the tariff for himself without avoiding behaviour? If you adjust those percentages, can't you always be pushed? Isn't that inherent in extending a disc like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u89	This debate also took place last year, albeit slightly less large, in this Chamber and across the street, because that extended disc was announced for 2022. In the meantime, there is clear information available that this most likely encourages constructions. Then I would say that it is not a sensible proposal from solid legislation. And then there can be all kinds of ideas about how to organise tax relief for companies in a different way. I'm gonna leave that for a while. My motion says that we should stop doing this when we find that this disk extension is causing undesirable behavior on a large scale. That is what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn, on behalf of the SP. Mr. Vendrik, would you hand the motion to the messenger? Otherwise we won't be able to process it, and that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u91	Did you say "Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SGP" or did I get that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u92	No, you may have taken it that way, but it's the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u93	You don't make that mistake every time. The SP, anyway. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both Secretary of State for the answer, which is indeed more detailed in my case than last time with the Minister. That doesn't mean all the questions have been answered. To begin with, I would like to come back to the dividend tax. I and Mr Vendrik had an interesting debate on this with the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says that there is now new thinking and new politics. He says, "We're no longer going in that race to the bottom. We don't really want anything to do with that anymore." But then there was the plan to come to an ultimate attempt to abolish the dividend tax in the injury period of this triple-demissionary cabinet. Then the Netherlands would have joined the little illustrious or notorious list of a few countries that do not tax dividends. I think that's what you're gonna do in the race to the bottom. This raises the question, as with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, to what extent the cabinet really means with this new thinking, with this new policy, with regard to tax competition, tax avoidance and business tax. Are you sure that advanced insight is going to go deep? I also had that little debate about the attractive investment climate and how the Secretary of State defines it with regard to the Vpb. As far as the extension of the first disc is concerned, I fully agree with what Mr van GroenLinks said, which I think is all very well put. We also wholeheartedly support his motion. But that actually enhances the feeling I just described. The same applies to the legislative proposal on mismatches. No misunderstanding, we are very happy that the bill is there, but the arguments of the Secretary of State why it started as of July 2019 instead of 1 January 2017 really do not convince. It is said that it cannot reasonably be assumed that companies could already know at the time. And that while there was already a BEPS report on this in 2015 and this form of tax avoidance was already under discussion. I would also like to remind you that there are also a number of forms of double non-taxation which have been deliberately excluded from the legislative proposal. I said this in the first term, but the Secretary of State did not go into it. Maybe he can reflect on it briefly. I quoted Professor of Tax Law Jan van de Streek, who says that for that reason it is a wash nose. I also said that, apart from the BEPS report, the avoidance of taxes in itself is very undesirable in society. So companies that are guilty of this should not assume that there will never be any legislation in this area. That is why I find the answer given by the Secretary of State to this question to be unconvincing. I hope that something can be done about it, at least by the new cabinet. Because we're just gonna see that there are loopholes in the law that need to be closed. So there is still a long way to go in the area of tax avoidance, so I hope that the successor of the Secretary of State will continue along that road. Thank you, Mr President, that's it in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u94	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Mr Van Strien has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Unfortunately, it was largely evasive, in so far as the questions have already been answered, referring to the plans of the new cabinet which we do not yet know, for which I am holding my heart. Unfortunately, I do not see any way of getting a reasonable answer from this Secretary of State to a number of fundamental questions. Mr Vijlbrief has even made it clear that we do not have to expect these answers even after the second-term questions have been repeated. I am therefore not going to repeat them with mention of my disappointment. On one point, however, I make an exception. That is that I have co-signed and will co-support the motion that Mrs Prast is about to table on box 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u96	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Then Mrs Prast has the floor on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for his answers. I said yesterday that I had high expectations of the level. On the whole, the Secretary of State did not disappoint me in that respect. Thank you for his unexpected mediatorl in the discussion with Mr Schalk; I do not see him for a moment. Of course, I was not always happy with the content of the answers. The Secretary of State's assertion that an extra low VAT rate would be as complex, at least as I have heard it, as income-dependent rates and surcharges, I dispute. I would point out that quite a few EU countries even have three low rates. Mr Van der Linden and I understand that the Secretary of State has already asked the Tax Administration to prepare for an extra low or even zero rate, for which I thank you. The motion previously announced is therefore superfluous and we will not table it. Then the protection of savers. I have already mentioned in my first term that my group is even more concerned about this because employees will be entitled to take up 10% as lumpsum in January 2023, if it goes well. I have checked how high the average amount will be that employees will take in if they do all that. That's $28,000. We shouldn't think about them taking them to the stock market because they think that's what you should do. There is a hurry to put an end to the levy on savings. We understand that an overall change takes time, but we are only asking for the rate of return on savings to be set at zero and also for as long as the rate of return on savings is lower than the fictitious rate of return. Of course, the real return on savings is now negative. Then I'll come to the motion. I'll read it to you. The: Mr Prast, Mr Van Strien, Mr Koffeman, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Vendrik and Mr Crone proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas continuation of fictitious returns is poorly related to financial consumer protection policies;]] [[whereas the AFM warns that more than one third of retail investors take risks in financial markets with money that they can't miss now or later;]] [[Whereas, according to the AFM, many of them may face serious financial problems;]] [[Whereas employees will soon be able to take up 10% of their pension capital as a lump sum at pension date;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the taxing of assets held as savings on the basis of fictitious returns as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u100	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by saying that I am very pleased to hear the answers from the Secretary of State, who have not yet been given in the first term, but are still coming in the second period. There is a cabinet after nine months of hard labor and I am now in happy expectation today. Mr. Chairman. I had not received an answer to the full speech. Apparently, the questions were a bit bull's-eye too, perhaps in the middle of the bull's-eye, which led the Secretary of State to be tempted not to comment at all. I told you before, I'm not asking what's in the coalition agreement. But on the basis of what is now the case with income policy, with age discrimination over the past many years, I ask the Secretary of State what he thinks of that. I'm not going to repeat what I meant by age discrimination. I have indicated this in detail. Of course, new clouds, which I mentioned briefly, are threatening even in the event of interruption. Mrs Prast also mentioned them, I believe: the AOW tax system and the unpaid wage we already had. In particular, the house could also be housed in box 3. Old people get hit hard. Of course, I am not going to say anything about the coalition agreement as it now appears in the media, because I do not know it. I read in the media a bit that it has already come out sweetly, but not yet the acid. I'm sure I'll make a prediction: the sweet will go to the workers and the acid to the AOW'ers. The past is a clear example of this. Of course, I would not have maintained that argument if inflation had been 1.5%, as on average over the last ten to fifteen years. Now we have a flying inflation in a few months. In two years, 2021 and 2022, we have to count on top-level inflation of one percent or eight and yet on average at least twice 3%. Then, of course, the non-indexation of pensions is a dead end, especially for people with a small pension. If you have a pension of €10,000, you already miss €2,000, i.e. 20% missed indexing. That goes very quickly to 30% missed indexing. That would be a third, i.e. even €3,000. That happens in two years, because of that high inflation. The AOW is being increased, but is far behind due to the system we have on the basis of the Mrs, the CEP and the estimates. Formal inflation now leads to the AOW being increased by €36 per month in two tranches in one year. That is 3%, but much less so than an inflation rate of 6%, 7% or 8% in those two years. That is why we believe that something needs to be done. I have already indicated in the debate that we actually believe that there should be a one-off additional increase in the AOW benefit, because the elderly are most affected. They don't get a raise and their pension's been frozen for a long time. If the AOW reacts slowly, the fall in purchasing power is almost no increase in income, but a huge inflation thump, very heavy for all those people with a small pension. I would like to point out that I have said this before, and I myself was shocked by the fact that the median pension in the healthcare and welfare sector for our hard-working care workers is €8,000 gross. That's €640 gross per month, next to the AOW. €640 gross next to the AOW! for people who have worked in care for 40 years. My sister didn't work in health care. She has been a teacher in primary education and, after 40 years, has a pension of slightly more than the median in care. I believe from €9,000 or €10,000. 40 years in primary education, never absent and hard work in a difficult disadvantaged neighbourhood in Amsterdam. I'm talking about those people. Not about my sister, but about people with such a small pension, of $600. Or much less, because the median means that half is below the €8,000. They have €3,000, €4,000 or €5,000. That's a few hundred euros gross a month. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. There's a Purchasing Power Arrangement. It is now €26 per month for all AOW'ers. I want to increase it by a limited amount, €200 per year. That amounts to €15 on top of that purchasing power meeting for AOW'ers we have. The: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Raven, Mr Crone, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Otten and Mr Vendrik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that inflation in 2021 is significantly higher than the inflation forecast of 1.9% in September 2020;]] [[Considering that the government now estimates inflation in 2021 at 2,7% on the basis of the inflation explosion in the last two months;]] [[Whereas inflation is also expected to be higher in 2022 than the 1.8% increase estimated in the draft budget;]] [[Considering, therefore, that AOW's purchasing power is significantly lower than estimated purchasing power for 2021 and 2022 in the draft budget;]] [[Whereas, for the time being, the latest inflation rates and trends justify and require at least occasional compensation for the fall in purchasing power in 2022;]] [[calls on the cabinet to pay a one-off payment of €200 to AOW beneficiaries through the existing purchasing power meeting AOW in 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u101	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Essers has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both the Secretary of State and the officials for answering the questions. I too did not meet in every way, but I honestly did not expect that either. I do not mean that cynically, because we have raised problems which, of course, go far beyond this debate and which we will certainly come back to. Whatever I'm not disappointed in is the reflection. I started my first term with the question of whether the Secretary of State would like to reflect on fiscal policy in recent years. What have we learned and what do we learn for the future? I was pleasantly struck by the dilemmas outlined. We love dilemmas in this house. A very nice debate has emerged from that too. I think we can do that more. That really doesn't have to happen on the last day before a new coalition agreement is announced. However, I still have a few questions that I would like an answer to. The first concerns the inclusive framework, which sets out G20 and OECD minimum rates. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, because of this high threshold of 750 million turnover, we should not have too many expectations that all tax-avoiding structures will be gone in the future? We are talking about a limited number of companies. In particular, I would like to draw his attention to the fact that the proposals now exempt state funds from that minimum levy. Then there is the obvious question of whether this does not leave too much room for countries where these state funds do have a very important role to play here in order to play an evasive role. My third question is actually more of a focus in the context of the legislative proposal mismatches. There are many questions in practice about exempt bodies, government institutions or non-subject bodies, for example. That is what Article 8bd looks like. That's all kind of complicated. I think that practice, and later, of course, the Tax Administration and the judiciary, are very much served by a note on the scope of Article 8bd. Then there's the supplement case. I thought it was a very enlightening debate with the Secretary of State. I'm not withdrawing a word from what I said. In a state governed by the rule of law, you have to compensate people who are short-handed, but people who deliberately steer the case in the wrong direction, who simply fraud, should not actually be able to get away with €30,000. Having said that, I would like to stress once again that there is a great deal to be said about the background, the philosophy, of the surcharge system. We have now figured out that we need to do something about it. However, I would like to stress once again that the implementation of the allowances, in particular the childcare allowance, the all-or-non-policy, has of course played a very heavy role. They can unleash all kinds of philosophies and you can still have such a good arrangement, but if you have this kind of implementation policy, where you apply "everything or nothing," and are supported and confirmed by the judge, then the checks-and-balances no longer work. There is no system in place. This is without prejudice to the fact that everyone must now look at their own contribution, but we must also clearly point out where the problem was at the heart of the matter. One final point concerns the relationship between the Tax Administration and the tax advisors. I may lead an international investigation into the relationship between taxation on the one hand and political power relations on the other. This shows that in the past the regimes that violated rule of law introduced one of the first measures, namely the restriction of the freedom of tax advisors. They could only practice their profession if they were licensed by the government. The best performing states, particularly in the rule of law, are those where the Tax Administration and the tax advisors work together. I think that the choice made by the Secretary of State, namely that you should leave it mainly to the professional groups themselves how they deal with ethics, is the best choice. You may then have a clear judgment on that. But coercive models don't seem like a good solution to me. You absolutely need advisors: a to make the rule of law work properly and b to make the whole tax system work. We're gonna need a little more self-confidence. As a legislator, we need clear legislation. If you have clear legislation, you have much less tax avoidance behavior. And if you do, you'd be much better off relying on the judge. He will correct that, if it does occur. This interaction between legislator, performer and judge is crucial here. We can contribute to this in part. One final point. We have often talked today and yesterday about tax fraud and tax evasion, tax avoidance. These are two clearly distinguishable categories. But there is also a category of tax planning. I'd almost say that's a fundamental right. You don't have to pay more taxes than you have to. But that too is not so simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u103	Mr. Essers, you're almost two minutes past your speaking time. Would you like to finish? I see there's also an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u104	Yeah, this was the last thing I wanted to say. What exactly is legal tax planning? What exactly is tax avoidance? And what is "fucking" and we shall soon agree on "fucking tax evasion"? Those are very important questions we need to ask ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u105	Mr. Vendrik. Probably about this point, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u106	Mr Essers called for clear legislation. That is also a buffer against tax avoidance. That's how I understand him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u107	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u108	I have just tabled a motion which contains exactly that. Can I count on his support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u109	That support will have to be discussed in my group. I'd like to add one thing, if you don't mind. Quite a coincidence, next Friday, a PhD student of mine in Tilburg will defend a major dissertation on the division of companies. Splitting is the opposite of fusion. In many cases, there are business considerations to come to that split. Of course, fiscal considerations also play a role, but it is often a business choice. And there is a very large tax regulation for that. However, we must keep an eye on the fact that we are not throwing away the baby with the bath water by making the commercial splits impossible. Then we'll turn it the way we shouldn't. I would just like to say that there are cases where there are splits without fiscal motives. You have to think very carefully about how to formulate the legislation. So you shouldn't put on that overkill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u110	My motion doesn't want to make that impossible either. It's not about that at all. If there are business considerations of entrepreneurs to place their activities in different legal entities in order to split up, then they awarded them that. What we are talking about here is that with the legislation that will come into force on 1 January, entrepreneurs will be encouraged to split up for tax reasons, to avoid tax, to avoid tax. That is not the kind of legislation that Mr Essers likes to see before him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u111	No, but I'm afraid we're not taking sufficient account of that. At the moment when we are all saying that it is undesirable that someone should only split up because of fiscal advantage, is that a case that you can leave to the courts in practice? We are the legislator, we indicate the purpose and scope of the legislation. Why do you need an extremely complicated anti-abuse clause for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u112	May I agree with you on the one hand? My father had also split his company into an e.g. for the buildings and an e.g. for the production, because that's where the risk lies. That's perfectly normal. It was for decades. But what if he didn't and if he, or a doctor's practice or a lawyer's practice, suddenly wouldn't split up for any business reasons, and the Tax Administration smells that this is abuse, do you think ethically that that entrepreneur shouldn't do that, and that the Tax Administration should be able to say: here we are going through a line? So we give a role to the Tax Administration because our legislation is sloppy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u113	We are having a debate on the purpose and scope of a law. That was also the case in the House of Representatives. The government has replied: we believe this, with you, is not the behavior that we are going to promote. We will monitor whether it is going to act in this way. Should it be the case that it is being misused on a large scale, we will intervene. A consultant who's gonna advise this kind of thing knows what's gonna happen to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u114	That's exactly like the BIK, isn't it? The Secretary of State was very open about the BIK last year when he said: I don't know how it goes. He is even more open about this, because he says: it is a truth like a cow that is going to be abused. But we're all walking into the ditch with that cow. I want to save you from that, so that we don't have to get it back next year and get shit and make emergency supplies. By the way, this was not discussed at all in the Chamber, this was simply a coalition agreement based on the Hermans motion. There had to be money in it for the entrepreneurs. Then it was said: only the small entrepreneurs. So I understand the sympathetic intentions, between dream and act, as the Secretary of State has said in a different context, but you're not in on that, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u115	I feel so sorry for you, but I wanted to put it into perspective. We had all that split in the rate; we just moved up the border. But the question of whether or not I should enter into a tax unit and whether or not I should merge or split is a question that is commonplace at every tax advisory office. That question is probably being asked a little more now. But if you do know that people are looking at that with their eyes open and you have to say to a customer afterwards "we thought it would work, but it doesn't work," I wouldn't be so worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u116	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u117	If the Tax Administration sees that it is really abuse, because it is not necessary at all, because there are no business reasons for it and because it has never been done before, it may be said: we accept this construction, a kind of reverse ruling, not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u118	We know in tax law the so-called fraus legis principle. You can say: listen, you comply with the letter of the law, but it goes against the purpose and purpose of the law; you have purely fiscal motives. Then the judge can honor it. Then the advantage is off. If it's pure and fake, you can also fall back on fakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u119	I now turn to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u120	I think that Mr Vendrik had just passed through his interruptions, at least on this point. I will take over from him for a moment when it comes to the motion that he has tabled and which has been co-signed by my group. Mr Essers now says: "We should not want that, because we need to simplify the tax system. So we should not come up with such a complex anti-abuse clause. Moreover, there are a lot of companies that don't split up for tax reasons, so let's not do that." But the operative part of the motion is actually very clear: we reverse the extension of the first write. Then you solved it, because all sorts of signals show that the extension of that disk will increase that form of abuse. So that is a very simple and elegant solution in the motion tabled by Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u121	You can also reason: the House of Representatives has agreed to this, and we are going to vote next week to accommodate SMEs because this is the SME rate. You frame it completely within the framework of the constructions. It's just like which side you're gonna be on. So if you're gonna reverse this, you're gonna run out of SMEs. Then I'd rather choose the ad hoc action. For all I care, the Secretary of State will come up with a decision in which he will once again clearly state what he does not want, rather than come up with a general arrangement that affects the whole of SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u122	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u123	In my view, SMEs have been met by lowering the rate of the first disc at all. The extension of the disc will, of course, also benefit larger companies, who will then be able to choose instead of the tax unit to split up their business into different e.g. companies. So that helps SMEs, but that also helps larger companies to avoid de facto taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u124	With all due respect, SMEs are not just very small. You've got bigger companies, too. But at least this is not in favour of multinationals. We can all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u125	Thank you. Mr Crone has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank the rulers for the answers. I do not share the concern of colleagues that not all the questions have been answered, because they both go on for a while, so it is very good that we can discuss a lot in the coming years, in whatever role. I like the way you answer these dilemmas. I provoked it yesterday by saying that the Secretary of State should have done so as former Vice-President of the CPB. I won't go into it too long. Of course I also know Tinbergen from another university: one policy, one purpose, and so on. But we also know from the practice of life that you have to compromise, so fortunately it is not so bad with these dilemmas. Compromise is conceivable. Then you get one objective a little less, but then you do it a little better for that other objective. I would like to contradict the fact that everyone has agreed to this. I am still very proud that I voted against the Zorgwet package, which for the first time included the surcharges. By the way, that was under the Supreme Prince, Higher Prince-Balkenende, and not under Purple, as you said. We said: this is going wrong; with a nominal charge of €400 instead of €1,000, people can also opt for a different package of €380 or €410, which means that there is not so much money to be pumped around. I said here two years ago that Minister Zalm also said to us: good that we are done as PvdA, but I would have done this with you, because I don't like the pumping around of money. I said that two years ago. By the way, my party also proposed many times that child care should be made free of charge or partly free of charge. And you all remember that the Rutte/Samsom cabinet almost didn't get there after two days, because there was also a piece of pumping being abolished. So I share all the responsibility and all the guilt, and I never get right and never at the right time that certainly doesn't happen but there are more nuances in it. But that's more for history. I welcome the dilemma approach in itself and I am happy to continue with it. Also in general thanks to Secretary of State Van Huffelen. I've already predicted that we'll come up with our own report as the First Chamber. So we're gonna see you around here a lot. I had a little technical question. This Wiersma-€200 is not going to be reduced again via a surcharge circus, where people first received this supplement, via special assistance or otherwise, after which after a year a discount on the rent surcharge or other supplements will be added? Mr. Chairman. I have just said a lot about this Vpb cut in terms of content in the interruption. I'd like to explain why that's allowed here, because in the hallways I heard people shouting: you guys are doing politics, but this is House of Representatives. Well, that is not true, because we are explicitly talking about possibilities of circumvention, so it also has to do with the quality of legislation. Secondly, we are also a political body, so we can say that this is not what we want. If we can't do that anymore, we need to be abolished. Fortunately, it is also on our site that the novelle has become increasingly political. We are not asking for a novelle, by the way. It's not supposed to be. We note in the Vendrik motion the demand for a solution. One solution is that we just vote against it. Another solution is that the cabinet says: well, vote against, we may also be able to solve your problem. It's possible. So we're asking for a solution. That could be the withdrawal of the bill. That may be the adjustment of the rates, for which a novelle is then needed. Many roads lead to the possibility that we can vote enthusiastically for such a thing. Those are very normal ways of dealing in the States General. Mr. Chairman. Let me briefly repeat the following. You were actually sorry about the BIK before. You may regret this in advance. I therefore urge you to help resolve it by next week. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to relations with other countries and the minimum rate. However, I have one further comment to make. You yourself said that we were not very good with other countries. They're capitalizing on us. Isn't that an additional reason for the Netherlands to be the frontrunner now, to lead the way as a counter to criticism at a nice, average Vpb rate of 30%, for example, in any case in the Western countries? This does not apply to all OECD countries, but to the North-West European countries, including England. I hope your successor will shape that contramal. Finally, on marginal pressure. I've talked a lot about that, and so have others. My first point was, of course, that the marginal pressure should be reduced, so that people will have more to gain from extra work. We need that labour force. Two. This can be financed from the economic space. I have argued this in detail in the Financial Reviews. I hope that the cabinet will do the same tomorrow in the new coalition agreement. This is therefore a question of reducing marginal pressure. I have added that it is unfair that you have 60% marginal pressure with a middle income, while a top income has 49% marginal pressure. That is an additional argument. Another argument is that it is very good that higher paid people contribute a little more to social services. No more, no less. So I hope there's room in there. What, of course, helps most against marginal pressure is free, or almost free, childcare and directly subsidising the health insurance companies so that premiums go down, and more of that kind of thing. I introduced it two years ago. But as you know, the PvdA is never right, at least not at the right time. I am not going to repeat that we have said this before, because many others have said it before. Mr. Chairman. I hope to have many more debates with these two rulers in this position. Maybe there's a minister in there. That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u127	I have an enlightening question for Mr. Crone. The PvdA is for equality. Are you also in favour of an equal marginal pressure for all incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u128	No, there's always a dilemma here, too. a balance between a credible system and a viable one. When you put a soil on low incomes, you always have to remove it somewhere. The middle group is the largest group, so it never gets away from relatively the highest loads. Moreover, this cabinet has introduced the gradual scale. With the rent supplement, of course, you had a hard nod. That was totally horrible. But I take a step forward every year. That 49.5% is holding the cabinet. If it needs money, it can only get it from the middle groups. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u129	I just wanted to know if you're in favour of equal marginal pressure for everyone. But you think it's okay that it's different for different groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u130	I liked it rhetorically when I thought of it yesterday or the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u131	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Voort of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u132	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for their answers. I have become curious about the green paragraphs in the coalition agreement. The Secretary of State has fueled that curiosity even further. Whether you call the current tax policy "flets" or not, we obviously agree that there can be a scoop on top. The coalition agreement has actually been in the spotlight all day today, as if it were a surprise that we will be able to unpack later this week. Looks like we can't wait. The position of the Secretary of State today, at the end of their term, with the new cabinet approaching, is therefore not an easy one. In any case, our group understands this. As far as the dilemmas are concerned. It may even be a qualm. The Secretary of State for Increases and later Mr Van Apeldoorn mentioned transparent, careful, just and also quickly, so perhaps we are even talking about a quadrilemma. Not that I want to make things more complicated, but at least we have such a quadrilemma in the childcare allowance affair and perhaps also in the crisis measures, such as the corona crisis measures. That brings me to the question of the repayment of the tax debts that we have already discussed. The intention of the IRS is, as we hear, right. This is reassuring for now, but perhaps the Secretary of State can still comment on the situation of thezzp'ers. We are concerned about this group. How do the current aid measures work out specifically for this group and does the Tax Administration have any extra attention for them? I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u133	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u134	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both Secretary of State for answering our questions. We look back on a quiet and sometimes a bit of a matte debate. The fact that this is a limited number of legislative proposals will certainly be a cause for concern. The great work comes after the new coalition agreement; it has been mentioned many times. Nevertheless, a number of significant fiscal steps have been taken. I have shared the unanswered questions with the Secretary of State and will have an answer to them later, I suppose. In this second term, I want to limit myself to three issues: the issue of surcharges, the debate on returns and the role of ethics in the tax advisory sector. First of all, the poignant question of increases. My group sees a hard-working Secretary of State, who, together with her colleagues, wants to bring the painful and difficult process to a successful conclusion. We appreciate her openness, her commitment and her sense of responsibility, but I also think it is clear that it is going to take a long time and that many, often new bumps, still have to be taken. Fortunately, as I understand it, the available budget is not an obstacle. However, I am still curious to know that it is perhaps a bit of a spicy question, how it sees the role of Parliament in preventing new affairs. I am referring in particular to the many tax compensation schemes of planned policies set up in both chambers, which make the supplementing regime very complex. I'm asking that question a little bit to the other Secretary of State. Should they not even speak to us in admonition and say that limits are reached when it comes to feasibility? I note, however, that most of the tests carried out by the Tax Administration are always positive. They can handle it. Perhaps we should take a more critical look at this and you should also give us a mirror as a parliament. The second issue is the long-term debate on real and fictitious returns. It remains an annoying matter that no buttons are cut here. For taxpayers, it is inexhaustible that this issue should continue to drag on. And my group understands this annoyance very well. The Rotterdam professor Bas Jacobs recently made it clear that taxing on fictitious returns is a fiscal curiosity in the Western world and that there is a broader consensus among economists about taxing real wealth revenues. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State, Mr Delors. I can see him nodding a bit questionablely on this tax exemption position of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The third and final issue concerns the relationship between ethics and taxation. Let me stress once again that there are many tax advisers who take the role of ethics very seriously. However, I am concerned with criticism that has emerged from the sector itself of the ongoing search for loopholes in tax legislation. That is why my group first suggested the idea of an oath for tax advisers, just as it does for banks. They could therefore be subject to disciplinary law. My group welcomes the Secretary of State's commitment to give his successor the idea we have put forward to take a few steps forward. We would like to be informed about the findings and the steps already being taken to work towards a code of conduct for the sector. What, according to the Secretary of State, is the dot on the horizon? We hope that a code of conduct, an oath or whatever you want to call it will have a purifying function for the tax advisory sector. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mrs Geerdink, who will speak on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to extend my warmest thanks to both outgoing directors for their first-term response. I would also like to mention the great commitment of the officials of the Ministry of Finance. Once again this year they have processed the input of this Chamber at a rapid rate, which led to large piles of paper, to which reference was made earlier. Thank you for that. There are still a few issues on which the VVD Group would like to receive an answer or reflection from the Secretary of State in the second term. This is partly because an answer has not yet been received and partly because the answer gave rise to it in the first period. The first is the locational climate. We noted there that there was an en- en policy. It is aimed at both tax avoidance and the promotion of a good investment environment aimed at employment, greening and innovation with preferably the lowest possible Vpb rates, so that we as the Netherlands are and remain attractive to business. We have talked about an annual progress report and our group would like the second 'and' to be included. The point is that we're reliable. What is being said should not be highlighted from one side. As far as I am concerned, both sides need to be highlighted. We ask that this report be included in the annual progress report. We prefer to see them in the spring, so that we can discuss our tax plan in the autumn. The second issue is tax governance. We understand that VNO/NCW is taking the lead. We talked about it two years ago. In my view, this is a constant discussion, hence the question: when do you think there is something that can be done in practice? I would also like to ask if you can reflect on the English, neutral Chartered Institute of Taxation. This is able to generate neutral advice based on cooperation between fiscalists in distinctive roles. Maybe that's the solution to the problem. Third, I have the administrative burden. I have mentioned an example of the home working arrangements in conjunction with the anti-coherence scheme, together with the new development of the travel expenses scheme with the travel days. The Secretary of State didn't go into that. I would ask him to report on this, in particular how the Tax Administration will monitor it. Finally, there is the power test and the occasional special mention of the results of that test. Perhaps you could explain how it works and how it works, so that hopefully in the coming years there will be a slightly clearer test. Then there is the commitment on the briefing on the ICI capacity of the Tax Administration. We accept them in thanks. We are, of course, looking forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State in the second term and we are moving towards a new coalition agreement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u137	Thank you, Mrs Geerdink. I call Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u138	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you also to the Secretary of State for their detailed first-term response. In the first term of our group, of course, the essence was that our system of social security and taxation is too complex. That is an analysis that is widely shared. This was also apparent from the first term and from previous discussions here. It is not easy to break that, as the Secretary of State recognizes. The Secretary of State also referred with a different hat to coalition negotiations where four parties already do not come out. Our cautious conclusion is therefore that no major decisions will be taken in the coming years. That is why we are proposing an unconventional approach in the second term. We propose that the cabinet work together with the Lower House and possibly the Upper House on a plan to significantly simplify our social security and taxation system in the coming years, not as a kind of big bang, but at least as a spot on the horizon, as a vision strategy that will then be implemented, a long-term vision of the revision of the system. Our appeal is: take this simplification out of the too political and take out the too political ones. Take these two apart as step one, or it'll never work. In step two, of course, there is room for political differences over this simplified system. Of course it takes lubrication, money, money. The Secretary of State pointed that out, too. A suggestion might be a fund for this. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with the motion for a broad approach to simplification of taxes and surcharges. The: Mr Van der Linden, Mr Frentrop, Mr Berkhout, Mr Nanninga and Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch social security and taxation system is unnecessarily complex;]] [[Whereas there is broad support in both chambers for significantly simplifying this overly complex system in the coming years;]] [[Invites the Cabinet to work intensively with both chambers, research institutes and external specialists on an ambitious, transparent and step-by-step plan to significantly simplify our social security and taxation system in the coming years, with the starting point for the present:]] [[acceptable marginal pressure;]] [[acceptable budgetary impacts;]] [[acceptable income effects;]] [[acceptable labour supply effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u139	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u140	Thank you and the rulers, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u141	Mr Schalk has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u142	Mr President, thank you and, of course, thanks to both Secretary of State for the reply they have given. With regard to the surcharges, I fully understand the dilemma mentioned by Mrs Van Huffelen, the dilemma of speed versus care. I also understand that she has indicated that these supplementary regulations will first be dealt with in the House of Representatives, I believe, next Thursday, so we will not be focusing too much on them now. But it was one of my questions: do you have to come up with that right now, while the other process is still in full swing? Mr. Chairman. In addition, there has been a rather profound or in-depth discussion of the dilemmas which Secretary of State Vijlbrief has appointed. That's what it was about morality. For example, the words 'tax fraud' and 'tax avoidance'. Is that fraud, tax avoidance? That's gonna be an interesting question, of course. That depends on what exactly happens, whether it is within the framework of the law and so on. However, during that part of the debate we exchanged for a moment "give the emperor what is Caesar's," a beautiful statement by the Lord Jesus. But let us not forget the continuation of his remark: God what God is. The first half of that expression is about the right of the government to levy taxes. The second is the duty we have towards God. Mr. Chairman. We have also had a bit of a debate on the need to resolve the political dilemmas. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb daar nog verder over na zitten denken de afgelopen dag.]] Political choices which are considered acceptable at the outset can lead to new dilemmas, which may be morally out of step, on further development. For example, some years ago, the CBS indicated that the growing difference between one and two-earners, including the disproportionate marginal pressure, has reached the limits of justice and, I say a few years later, has already crossed. I have not been able to persuade the Secretary of State to regard the current regime as unfair. Maybe I could get him to at least label it as "croft grown" with me. Mr. Chairman. I understand, on the one hand, the failure to deal with the questions surrounding this issue. But that brings my group into a very difficult and special split. I gave you three options last night. One might think of freezing the transferable tax discount. Or, quite another thing, you could cancel the bill freeze child benefit. Or you could do something substantial for the one-earners at the bottom of the payroll building, in combination with the marginal pressure. I haven't had any answers to that so far. I understand, because we would do that in the second term. So I'm just gonna mention them. Then I considered: should I come forward with a motion? I've done that a few times in the past few years. Those motions were usually widely supported. Some parties now feel guilty because they didn't, but good. But in the end, after those years, I have to say, it didn't work out. So the question is whether I should do this again. I've decided not to do that, but to formulate a call. Mr. Chairman. My group is known as governmental and constructive. The SGP doesn't vote well because we're somewhere bad. In other words, not just like last year said: vote against. But on the other hand, I also have to deal with my own credibility. Last year we voted, exceptionally enough, against the Tax Plan 2021. I fear that it is very complicated for my group to support the last tax plan of the Rutte III cabinet. I'm very curious to know what's coming out of the top hat in the second term, but we'll make up our minds after that second term. Nevertheless, in any case, I wish both Secretary of State my heartfelt strength and God's blessing in their special work, even in these days of the present cabinet. Maybe we'll see them at some point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u143	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u144	Mr. Chairman. The better is the enemy of good. In short, this is how Dutch politics often tries to conduct fiscal policy on the square millimeter, often overwhelmed with the false security sauce of the CPB. There is often a lot of attention to all kinds of specific cases and exceptions. In the end, the premium affair has become the result of this. This makes the tax system a complex, complex and illogical set of rules for many, which also leads to many implementation problems. What is needed is simplification, clarity and transparency, especially now that inflation is rising and inflation expectations are beginning to change, with all the risks involved. This has also been recognised by the Secretary of State, thank you for that. Our group also has concrete proposals on how to do this. The Netherlands, as far as our group is concerned, needs to look much more closely at other countries for the solution of complex problems. In the case of the corona crisis, we have seen that this has been completely inadequate, although we have the impression that this has been the case a little more recently. That is why we have long called for a system with a much higher tax discount, following the personal allowance model in England of about €15,000. That solves a lot of the problems of the current system. Our motion to investigate this has been adopted by this Supreme Court a long time ago, but has not yet been implemented. That's why the next motion. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Otten motion for a resolution on a study on simplification of the tax system (motion 35302, letter N), which calls for a comparison of the well-functioning system of a significant tax reduction (personal allowance) for lower and middle incomes in England, was adopted by the First Chamber on 17 December 2019;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands urgently needs a simpler and more transparent tax system, which provides clarity for taxpayers, can increase economic dynamism and growth and leads to less complexity in implementation;]] [[noting that the study on a simpler tax system, to which the motion adopted (35302, letter N) calls and on which commitments have been made by the cabinet to the First Chamber, has still not been completed and has not yet been given to the First Chamber;]] [[invites the Government to give effect to the adopted motion 35302, letter N and the study in question to the Upper Chamber by 1 July 2022 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u145	This motion therefore replaces our retained motion 35925, letter M, of 16 November last. Mr. Chairman. Then we get to the point of the surcharges. We have tabled a motion that, as part of the solution, we should at least immediately stop the country's attorney Pels Rijcken and no longer engage this country's attorney in tax and surcharge matters. After everything that's happened, how can you look those parents in the eye, after all that's happened, the victims of the premium affair, if you're still going through with an office where the top man has darkened over ten million in many years? The reason why we make such a point of this in the First Chamber, just like Pieter Ommzigt does in the Second Chamber, is that at some point you just have to draw a line in the sand and say "enough is enough," especially because there has been a much too much intertwining between the State and the national attorney in the last 52 years. The state attorney has been a state attorney since 1969. Mr President, I will conclude. If I were in the situation of Secretary of State Van Huffelen, and my partner as a notary was involved with the national attorney, as in her case, that would be an additional reason for me to break the ties immediately. New impetus is now needed, also a new lawyer, who can start with a clean slate. That is why I would ask that our motion 35927, letter G, on quitting the state attorney, be put to the vote today, because this does not allow any further delay. I understand that we may also be voting on other motions today, so that is why my request or point of order to do so immediately today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u146	Thank you, Mr. Otten. First of all, for the record, your motion 35927, letter L, which you have just filed, replaces your previous motion 35302, letter N.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u147	No, which replaces the retained motion 35925, letter M of 16 November 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u148	35925, M of Maria?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u149	Yes, from Maria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u150	The latter motion has therefore been withdrawn and is no longer part of the deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u151	It's been moved in. Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u153	I object to such a personal way of talking about the Secretary of State. My group wants this to be said as clearly and clearly as possible. She would like Mr Otten to withdraw this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u154	I've been thinking very consciously about whether or not I would. There are a lot more things I know that I didn't put in my speech at all. It's all much more intertwined than people think. But this has also been in the press. It has also been stated in Wob reports that there was special concern from the cabinet on this issue. You can check all that out. It has also been published in the newspapers. That seems to me to be relevant in this matter. Frankly, I do not understand, Mrs Geerdink, why the VVD wants to keep this country's attorney in charge after everything that has happened there. Why don't you just say, like almost the majority here: enough is enough; we're not all gonna come up with new rules? People have gotten into much less trouble with the surcharges. At some point, as a government, you must also say: we are simply drawing a line here; this is no longer acceptable. Certainly for us as the First Chamber, which must take account of the legality of the policy, there is a task here now to ring the bell. We have done so, following Pieter Omtzigt in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u155	Then I note that you do not understand what I mean. That's not so much a question as a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u156	I actually have a point of order, too. I had a little thought yesterday about whether I should make that point when the motion was tabled, because there is a name in it. But that's still from the state's attorney, and you could say something about that. But just now, the Secretary of State's partner was also called in. Then I thought, "Now we're really going too far." They're people who can't defend themselves here. I think it's also a personal matter to the Secretary of State. It is perfectly capable of defending itself, but as a point of order I would like to ask, or to consider, for Mr Otten to take that comment back at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u157	That is the second request. I do not, because this is the partner, who is also otherwise involved in this file, through another firm. I'm not gonna talk about any of that. But what I said: if I had been the Secretary of State, it would have been an additional reason for me, especially because it was in the press... At least NRC-Handelsblad has published about it. At least I've seen all kinds of Wob messages about that. In fact, the top of the D.A.'s office scaled down the investigation. The district attorney who was investigating this at Pels Rijcken has been flagged back, if I understand correctly. That is Mr Frakking, if I am well informed. There's some really weird stuff going on there. It is important that we, as the First Chamber, show that enough is enough. This is too intertwined with all kinds of state affairs. There just needs to be another state attorney, an employed lawyer or something like that. But I'm not taking it back, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u158	At least you mentioned Pels Rijcken in your motion. That's so far. It's also in the press, but it's good practice not to mention names of people who aren't here. Because they can't defend themselves. You are not prepared to take it back, but I would ask you not to do so again, because I am not giving you the floor to do so. Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u159	Mr President, that is exactly what I wanted to say. The state attorney was appointed, but Mr Otten made a remark in his speech, perhaps he did not notice himself, as well as a comment about the personal partner of the State Secretary, who is not here. I know the name, but it doesn't matter at all. But I ask Mr Otten to take that back, because that is something else than the national attorney. It would please you, I say to Mr Otten, if you take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u160	Mr. Otten, one more chance to take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u161	All sorts of things have appeared in the publicity, including...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u162	No, the request is just: do you want to take it back, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u163	No, I think it's relev...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u164	Clear. Then Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u165	I have one more question. I have just heard Mr Otten say that there are all kinds of other things that are not yet public, which should support this motion. My question is actually: if you say that here, then I think you should tell us something about it in order to consider whether to vote for or against that motion. Then what's it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u166	I have just said that I am not giving Mr Otten the floor to make personal remarks about individuals who are not here. So if that is part of the answer that Mr Otten has to give now, he will not be given the floor, Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u167	No, apart from naming people like that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u168	No, I am not going to go into that further in the light of the previous comments. But I would advise Mr van der Linden to look into that. Then he can find out for himself, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u169	Thank you. Then I saw Mr Vendrik, but now I see him running away. Thank you, Mr. Otten. Then Mr Otten tabled another point of order, namely to vote today on his motion 35927, letter G, which he tabled earlier. At the end of this second term, I propose that we vote on that order proposal to vote on that motion today or not. It may also be that there will be a similar order proposal. Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we are going to vote today on a motion that I simply want to discuss with my group, then I would like to vote by roll call on the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u171	Thank you. By the way, if motions are put to the vote today, you will have every opportunity to discuss them with your group, because then we will be looking at how much time it takes today. If there is to be a roll-call vote today, it will be late at least this evening, because then we must allow all Members to come here. So I would ask you to weigh that up with your request. But first we go to the State Secretary, but only after I have asked if one of the Members wishes to speak in the second term. That is not the case. Then, Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u172	Mr. Chairman. I need a few minutes for a natural necessity and a few minutes to talk to my officials. That won't take long, don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u173	Fine. Then we'll suspend for a brief moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u174	I give the floor to Mr Van Strien, who has asked to speak. Mr Van Strien wished to speak on his last point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u175	Mr. Chairman. I have a question first. There are therefore two motions for resolutions which call for the vote to be taken this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u176	No, Mr. Van Strien. There is one motion on which the order proposal is currently before us to vote on it tonight. That is Mr Otten's motion 35927, letter G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u177	Is that the only motion on which the proposal is to vote tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u178	Right now. It is not excluded that during the evening one of the authors of the other five motions tabled today will at any time ask for his motion to be voted on this evening. That too will be an order proposal, which will then be voted on at that time, or as much later as the Chamber decides. Your order proposal, which is currently before you, is to have a roll-call vote on Mr Otten's order proposal to vote on Amendment 35927, letter G, this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u179	Then I withdraw my request for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u180	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u181	Mr. Chairman. I'll appreciate the motions at the end of my term. I do the answer again in a few blocks, because it is quite a lot: Vpb, BIK and tax avoidance. Then I'm going to say something about tax governance and about income and energy. And then I've got a few more varieties. There's been a misunderstanding about cutting up the Vpb. Raising the border in two steps was included in the Tax Plan last year. It's not in the Tax Plan this year, it's in last year's. The proposal was made law by both chambers last year. That is the actual, factual, legal situation. The Chamber can then ask me for anything. Mr Vendrik does the same in his motion. Of course, that's perfectly permissible, but I'm just saying what it's like. I think that Mr Essers has said the best, better than I have done, for which thanks, there may also be all kinds of other reasons for cutting up your business. He has also made it quite clear that, in general, it is simply a reduction in the burden for smaller companies, regardless of whether they are SMEs or not. None of that matters. He has also said well that I announced in the House of Representatives that I would monitor this properly. In the House of Representatives, that was enough to discourage the amendments. That is what I am going to do with the motion, because I simply insist that this line can be maintained. I admit that I have always said that, and I am not going to go so far as to say that, if you isolate everything, raising that limit can in itself lead to more cutting up. I'm not gonna deny that, because that's just a fact. But that is not the point at all; that is what Mr Essers said. The point is that there is a broad consideration. I have had this debate with the Lower House for a long time and now also with the Upper House. I've said about the last word on it. This is the situation as the cabinet sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u182	However, just a little while longer, because I mentioned the question of who is actually in the interest of Mr Essers in the interrupting debate. It is said that the introduction of the extension of the first disc has been done for SMEs, i.e. the increase in the amount of €245,000 to €390,000 profits. What percentage of SMEs actually benefit from this? Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u183	I'm gonna take it out of my head for a second, but I thought it was 20,000. It's not about small numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u184	I read somewhere that the Secretary of State mentioned the percentage of 5%. These are the 5% most profitable SMEs. It's companies that are doing well. They make a big profit. You can say "it benefits SMEs," but it benefits a very small part of SMEs. I would just like to say that for the record of the debate. That's an important distinction. We should not pretend that we are also helping the baker on the corner and many other small businesses. This is simply not the case; it concerns the most profitable companies: 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u185	I'm really resisting this image. I'm gonna say it one more time. I have had a very long debate with the House of Representatives on this. Now I have it again, with the First Chamber. Of course, SMEs are not just about the bakery on the corner, I say to Mr Van Apeldoorn. It's also about growing companies. In addition, you can make these kinds of profits. There's nothing wrong with that. I'm just saying that this is important for business. I also found the comparison with the BIK really inappropriate. This is a simple disk extension. You can find out what you think of that. I have had a long debate with the House of Representatives on this. This was in last year's tax plan. No one said anything about it back then. Now Het Financieele Dagblad opens three times in a week with this point and there are tax advisors who are so unwise to say that they are now going to cut up extra. Speaking of ethics, all right, so be it. I just insist that this is a normal measure. That is where Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Vendrik and anyone who supports the motion can find out what they think. You can ask me what you want, but you get the same answer over and over again. It is an important measure for 20,000 companies. You have it, I think, wrong by pretending that this is a douche bag for large companies. It just isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u186	I don't think we're gonna agree on this. That's obvious. I'll just give you the math example of a company that makes a profit of €790,000. That's not so small. By simply splitting the company into two e.g., the profit tax is effectively reduced by more than €40,000. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he sees that as a desired effect. Or is it an unwanted effect of this extension of the first disk? It was introduced last year. My group is well aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u187	Mr Essers said that very precisely. I happen to be the son of an entrepreneur, too. It is monitored if only for tax reasons. I already told you. If there is abuse, then the tax authorities will intervene. That is exactly what Mr Essers said, and that is exactly what we are going to do. For companies that can easily split up, you should think of partnerships, consultants, etc. A production company is not easy to split up. Mr Crone gave this example just now. So we should not make a too simple picture of this either. It is not the case that every e.g. in the Netherlands can simply split up for tax reasons. That's just not true. There are also good reasons to stay together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u188	Finally, Mr President. I note that the Secretary of State says that it is happening for all kinds of reasons, but we know that it is already happening for tax reasons and that this extension of the first disc will increase considerably. All fiscalists and tax advisors are expecting that. Secretary of State says he'll monitor it. In my first term, I have already said that this is a matter of 'if the calf has drowned, the pit will be muffled'. So we'll come back to this next year as far as the Secretary of State is concerned. Then we will find that the abuse has increased. My group would very much regret that. Hopefully the motion gets a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u189	I have to understand the personal irritation, but you still have to debate with us. That's too bad. We all understand that the House of Representatives has chosen this for political reasons. But we are looking here at feasibility and consistency. Now you're asking me to say it's so hard to split. I just meant it's so easy to split. My core point is this. You're talking about monitoring, but monitoring is just watching what happens. Mr Essers meant to ask: if it is true of the letter, but in spirit it is merely the avoidance of tax, can the Tax Administration intervene? Can the tax authorities say: we don't approve of this? That goes a step further than monitoring. Monitoring is: I've seen 100 cases and 80 go wrong; I'm filing a new law. We hope you don't have to. It helps if the tax authorities can say: we don't take this from a company, because this is fake, this is a construction. I saw Mr. Essers nod a little bit. If the tax authorities think that the letter of the law is being abused, because there are no strategic reasons for such a split, can they say they don't approve?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u190	I believe that Mr Essers gave a rather strong and clear answer to that too. The answer is yes. You can't do that. The First Chamber attaches importance to sound decision-making and legislation. I do. We're putting this in. I promised the House of Representatives that we would monitor this very closely following a motion by two coalition groups, two groups supporting the outgoing cabinet. That's what I reported. There were concerns there, too. I think that's a good cover for those concerns. If you say 'we do not want this anyway, because we think it is undesirable that the SME rate should apply to slightly larger companies', that is your right. But pulling this all the way into the tax avoidance category... that's just not true. If Mr Crone hears irritation in my voice, it is there and not the fact that I do not want to answer his questions. I always want to answer questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u191	I certainly didn't take it personally. It's about our right to question and answer. But Mr Essers himself suggested that there might be an implementing decision or something from the Tax Administration, so that they all know: pay attention. Once again, you say that you have said it clearly, but under "monitors," I always understand: only to see what happens. I don't think monitors say we're not doing it. But you're saying that now, so I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u192	Mr. Chairman. We're co-legislators. What we're discussing here is part of the history of law. The judge will take note of this and from that he will derive the purpose and purpose of the legislator. As we emphasise this more, it is clear that Parliament does not want this. That is perhaps a reason not to table the motion, because if it is rejected, it is another indication than it is now. I would say that we agree that the extension of that limit has not been introduced to introduce artificial divisions. At least I'll take full responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u193	It was a statement by Mr Essers. I agree with him, but it's starting to be a little redundant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u194	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u195	Monitoring tax avoidance, a question from Mr Vendrik. I think that's a good idea, including the things he mentioned. Let me just say that. Let me also say that that is wider than what it is now. That's what he explicitly asked. That's meant for both chambers. It is a commitment I make on behalf of my successor in office. Let me put it this way. Mr Essers asked whether the exemption for state-owned companies, Pillar 2, would be unfairly favourable to countries where these companies occur. Isn't that bad for ordinary VPB companies? It's crystal clear. I have always said it and say it to Mr Essers: we have always worked on as few exceptions as possible. I tried that all across the board. I have wagered on a high rate and few exceptions. That is what has happened in this regard. Reassurance: public undertakings, such as state-owned airlines, are not excluded. In this case, they are covered by the Pillar 2 rules. I do not expect the playing field of regular companies to be seriously affected. Mr Essers also asked whether the 750 million ECU limit in pillar 2 was not on the high side. For this, too, we would have liked that to be lower. It is true that we have taken all kinds of tax avoidance measures for smaller companies. This saw on the real big companies. But I do agree with him that this border might eventually go down. He also asked: shouldn't you have too high expectations of the effect of this measure? I am confident that, by the way it has been designed, this will have a real effect, if only because of the appearance that there is initially a uniform rate for these large companies. I still missed, I think, the answers on the respectful effect of obtaining business resources in the Anti-Certificates Act, the retroactive effect. I'm only gonna repeat it once more. I have had a very long debate on this in the House of Representatives, where we have exchanged all these matters. Why is that 2019 date logical? Because in the eyes of the legislator, so we, the taxpayer could already know by the ruling practice that this would apply. I have already told the House of Representatives and I will tell this Chamber again that the Council of State did not want a retroactive effect at all and did not want to start until 2022. So I have already gone beyond what the Council of State wanted here. I feel really reasonable here on certain grounds. Mr Vendrik and Mr Essers asked why the bill was not extended to cover all business transactions within a group. The draft law aims to avoid double non-taxation, which is applied by applying the principle of business. Making business transactions with lower tax jurisdictions is not included. That would be unilaterally repairing tariff mismatches. The Cabinet considers that tariff mismatches can be tackled most effectively in the widest possible international context. Moreover, Pillar 2 will, of course, also mean things when it is introduced. Mr Essers asked about the scope of the proposed Article 8bd, Law Vpb 1969. In order to ensure the effective functioning of the legislative proposal, the proposed Article 8bd is included in order to prevent mismatches in the application of the principle of principle of business. This provision is necessary to combat double non-taxation. In short, there is no transfer pricing that is primarily affected by the legislative proposal. Interested parties have also asked for attention in the internet consultation. Even if an associated body, which is subjectively exempted, deposits an asset, the legislative proposal may, where appropriate, take effect at the level of the subsidiary. A specific counter-proofing regime for such cases is considered undesirable by the Cabinet. Mr.Ester and Mr.Van der Voort asked what withdrawing the BIK means for companies and business investments that have made use of the BIK. The BIK has only been in operation for a moment. It is not known what impact this has had on business investment in our country. The government does not intend to compensate for this, because if we were to compensate, we might find ourselves again in the problem of state aid. I think Mr Ester understands that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u196	Also on the issue of mismatches and the legislative proposal, the Secretary of State and the SP Group are not going to agree. But just for the sake of purity: the Secretary of State always says that he has discussed this extensively with the House of Representatives. That bothers me a little bit, because you are debating here with the First Chamber. I have taken note of what has been changed in the House of Representatives, but that is no reason not to change it here again if we are concerned about the consequences of the bill when it comes to the loopholes. The second point I want to make is that the secretary says that the Council of State also says that this is otherwise a problem. Actually, he didn't want any retroactivity at all. In reply to the Secretary of State, I read somewhere that there is no formal retroactive effect at all. The target date is 1 January 2017 or 1 July 2019, but it will only start next year. This means that from then on the deductibility or netting will no longer apply. But that is not a retrospective force in the purest sense. That is an important distinction. If the Secretary of State wishes to use that argument, I would like to correct it in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u197	Just a little more precise, though. Whether the Council of State uses the term "reacting force" or not, I do not remember exactly. Perhaps Mr Van Apeldoorn will forgive me for that. But the Council of State recommends that this bill should enter into force and come into force from the date on which the bill begins and not two years earlier. So I'm already going beyond the Council of State's argument. That seems to me to be a fact. But I don't know what it's called exactly. I would like to be clear that in this case you may not have to call that a'reacting force', but I don't care about the date. That's what the Council of State argues. Let me now turn to Mr Van Apeldoorn's first comment. If he has read in my words that I do not want to debate with this Chamber something that has been dealt with in the House of Representatives, then he has missed the last eight hours, because I do so all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u198	Perhaps just to avoid a misunderstanding: I like to debate with this Secretary of State, but I respond to the remark he just made. I know the opinion of the Council of State, and that's what it says. I think it is up to the government, parliament and co-legislators to follow that up or not. I want to get rid of that. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Mr President, in my second term, whether, in addition to the advice of the Council of State, the advice or, if you like, the lobby of the Dutch Order of Tax Advisors, has played a role in the revision of the date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u199	Not for me. My officials will no doubt have read the work of the NOB. I hope they do, too. They will have taken their arguments into account. But Mr Van Apeldoorn should know me well enough by now to know everyone who knows me knows that I am very well advised, but difficult by people who have an interest. So don't worry about that, I'd like to say. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to tax governance. Mrs Geerdink and Mr Ester asked questions about tax governance. I actually saw Mr Essers' contribution as an encouragement. I would like to come back to two parts in general, because I promised. I would like to come back to the question of what it actually means for taxpayers and for tax advisers. I promised Mrs Geerdink earlier that I would come back to exactly what VNO is doing. VNO is in the final phase of designing that code. Mrs Geerdink referred to the idea in the United Kingdom, where there is an independent institution that is testing this. Let me say it loosely. I'd be happy to give it to my successor to look into it. I think that's a good idea, so I'd be happy to. I thought we had sufficiently discussed Mr Ester's point about the possibility of an oath. In the first term, I said that I find it an interesting idea to do so, because it fits the idea of self-regulation. I think self-regulation is a bit of a bad word, but let me use it again. I find it a bad word because in practice things often don't work without a bat behind self-regulation, I say just finely. Which brings me to my ability to act. Mrs Geerdink asked about that. It is clear from the reply that the capacity for action has not been assessed. To the extent that there is capacity for large companies, no action is required from people in technical approximation of laws and regulations. This refers to adjustments which do not aim at policy changes. Such changes do not result in additional taxation, neither of citizens nor of entrepreneurs. So we don't do that kind of test. Mrs Geerdink also asked whether the adaptation of the home scheme in partnership situations in the event of death is a predominantly technical or predominantly political adjustment. This scheme has been assessed and is characterised as relatively manageable. What does a judgment like that say? These changes, although they can be considered to be substantive as rather complex and also technical, are predominantly of a policy nature. Indeed, some of the policy changes are taking place, such as, from 2022 onwards, the loss of the own-house reserve or the redemption stand on death. In this way an assessment of the ability to act has been made. Mr Vendrik asked me an interesting question, namely whether the Secretary of State insisted on the feasibility of the coalition agreement. I can give Mr Vendrik a tip from the shutter about the process within my own party, D66. In that process, I have always urged the negotiators to look at the feasibility of fiscal changes. In the formation process, I thought, for the first time, the two or three major executives, at least the Tax Administration DG, the Supplements DG and the UWV DG, visited. Of course, the measures menu for a new coalition had already been considered on the implementation of the Building Blocks. At the very beginning of my term of office, we had a meeting in the First Chamber. At that time Mr Vendrik asked whether it would not be good if a coalition agreement was simply tested for feasibility. That is what is going to happen in practice now. There's a paragraph. That's what the Tax Administration can look into to see if the government agreement is enforceable. I have played a part in my own party at this point. That's actually all I can say about that. Mr Van Rooijen states that the Tax Plan package consists of many policy proposals. He asks whether the Tax Office is actually well protected.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's gotta be possible. Mr Ester said the same thing. Shouldn't the rulers be more fervent against the Chambers? I do not feel that Mrs Van Huffelen and I have not been strong enough against the two Chambers. In this Chamber of reflection and reflection, we have had debates on the Tax Administration, which can nevertheless be designated as firm. We always try, if possible and if appropriate, to protect our performers. That's not because... First of all, we do that because we love them very much, but that is not the most important reason. The main reason is that things have to be feasible. Mr Van Rooijen can assume that I will press the heart of my successor, whoever he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u200	If my memory's right, I didn't make that remark. I have already shown in confidence to the two rulers that I consider them husbands and wives enough to carry out this task well. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u201	It was Mr. Ester. That had gotten confused in my set with an infinite amount of questions. Mrs Geerdink of the VVD asked how the Tax Administration takes account of the burden. During the cabinet period, the cabinet controls the burden with the income framework. This means increases in charges if the reliefs are compensated with each other. We are, of course, always keen to ensure that this is balanced. Mr Vendrik asked, in the context of income policy, do the people who need it really get enough to be fully compensated? I have already said that it is never quite possible to say that with the €200. That is what I am saying to Mr Vendrik. Secretary of State Wiersma has indicated on behalf of the cabinet that he will keep his finger on the pulse on this point, so that people are really helped with this extra support in relation to energy prices. Mr Van Rooijen asked the following question. That must have been Mr Van Rooijen. There's no other way, because this is about people with only AOW or with a small pension. Then we think directly of Mr Van Rooijen. It's basically designed for the minima. It is therefore intended for an AOW person without a supplementary pension, but municipalities have a policy area, as is the case with the special assistance. If municipalities want to apply this more widely, they can do so to some extent of course. But this is meant for the minima. I think Mr Van Rooijen and I are not going to agree on where they start and end. That's what I'm guessing. But there's some room. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen's next question is real entrapment. Can the Cabinet exclude that an increase in the minimum wage will not fully link the AOW benefit? With all the love I feel for Mr Van Rooijen, I cannot answer that. I cannot rule out what a forthcoming cabinet is going to do. Of course, Mr Van Rooijen knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u202	I read from the letter of Secretary of State Wiersma literally this sentence, which I now repeat: "To reach those groups, including working poor, IOW beneficiaries, AOW beneficiaries without supplementary pension and low-income self-employed people, too..." In other words, the letter literally states "AOW'ers without a pension." So if you have a few euros of pension, the municipality might say, well, that's okay. But I'm not distracting from the arrangement. Do I now understand from the Secretary of State that there is a margin, a policy space, to apply it more broadly? That would be nice for the people with the smallest pension. But my question, as well as the one in the motion, is, of course, considerably wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u203	I was afraid I'd end up in this discussion. You always do when you're trying to think with it. Then you'll get this. I was trying to tell you what the rule is. The Secretary of State wrote that down. It's designed for minimums. Minima doesn't have a supplementary pension. Mr Van Rooijen just gave an example of a few euros of extra pension. Then I said that, of course, municipalities have some discretion to take that into account. At that time I thought he would start negotiating: what is "a few euros"? And we're not gonna do that. At least I'm not going to do that with Mr Van Rooijen. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u204	My comment was not intended to be negotiated. I also gave an example of what the Secretary of State said. That was not the example of a few euros, because that was a little faint. I was talking about €50 and €100 and more. My motion is much broader, because of the flying inflation at a pension that is not indexed. I indicated that there is a median of €8,000 in healthcare, so that means really only €600 every month. Those people do not get that €200, while with that small pension they cannot pay this flying inflation. Anyway, that's in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u205	Mr President, I was just about to get there, but I am going to respond to that in a broader way. Mr Schalk asked me to reflect on ways in which you could prevent the single earner and the two earner from growing apart. He even made his assessment of the Tax Plan. I can, of course, stop freezing the portability of the general tax rebate. Yeah, that helps. The withdrawal of the draft freeze indexing of family allowances, doing something for earners at the bottom: it can all be done, but Mr Schalk will not fail to point out to me that I am not going to make this kind of commitment here in the First Chamber at one afternoon. In my opinion, this Tax Plan is not a tax plan that works badly for sole earners. I can't find that in there. Mr Schalk has a problem, which I recognize or recognise, with the distortion between single and two-earners. That is his right, but rejecting this Tax Plan on the grounds that it does not do anything about it... I had that discussion with Mr Schalk last year. Then it was sharper than it is now. Mr Schalk is now milder than last year or I am in better shape than last year; I do not know what it is. But I don't think you can accuse this Tax Plan of doing that. There are even a few small measures in the reduction of discounts and so on, but then it's all hypertechnically helpful. But these things help in themselves. If Mr Schalk wishes to hear from me that I will say to my successor again: I see that there are concerns about this in the Chamber. It is not just Mr Schalk. In the Lower House, Mr Omtzigt has previously argued that. I even had a full report on it. If that helps, I'd like to do it. If that helps in our good relations, I would like to do so, but I am not going to announce the third policy changes of an extremely outgoing cabinet. Mr Schalk will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u206	Mr President, especially that 'extremely outgoing cabinet'... Of course I understand the position of the Secretary of State. I understand from him that we are at least in agreement that there is a distortion of growth. I also understand from him that he would at least like to raise with his successor that something might have to be done about this. Let me now turn to the current Tax Plan. I argued yesterday, and I tried to do so as clearly as possible, that there was a slight change from 6.95 times as much tax to 6.91 times. That gets half a sandwich a week for a family of two adults and two children, in the calculation I received from the Secretary of State himself. That is so extremely little that I honestly could not see it as a strong improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u207	It's an interesting debate, but I don't think I said it was an improvement. I was just saying, there are very small technical things in there that make it a little bit better. You cannot say that this Tax Plan 2022 is so bad for the sole earners in itself. I said at the time: I recognise the problem that Mr Schalk points out. He now uses the word "screep growth," and the word "screep growth" sounds of course like something you don't want. But, Mr President, I come from a political party, which we are not going to agree on. So if I were to say here: I agree with Mr Schalk, this is distorted growth... What I can do is, as I have just said, to discuss the stretch of my possibilities with my successor, and I will do so, that there is a report on a earner, I think the report was called 'Draagkracht', which I had made last year on the occasion of Mr Omtzigt in the Second Chamber. I will also convey to him or her the concerns on this point. That's pretty much what I've got in the pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u208	In this Chamber of reflection a final remark on the word "screep growth." I argued in my second term that you can make a political choice that has also been made, among other things by the party of the Secretary of State, but that in its further development there may be years of distortion due to that choice and that it may even change a moral judgment. That's what I've been trying to argue. In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State wishes to pass on the concerns of my party to his successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u209	That brings me to Mr Van Rooijen. It has made an extensive speech on the income position of older people. That's the same thing. I would like to say: wait for the actions of the new coalition. This is the tax plan ahead of us. This is what the cabinet is now proposing. I recognize Mr Van Rooijen's points, but for the clarity of the viewer of this debate I say that it is not the case that we have all done so without any regard for what has happened. We did it on purpose. Mr Van Rooijen considers that we have done it consciously to be an even greater problem. It's not a policy error or anything. These income relationships are so designed by this coalition, the outgoing cabinet. For the future, I really have to refer to tomorrow. Every sentence I put behind that is already wrong. This is what I have on offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u210	So that's nothing at all. Luckily, then, we agree on that. That is perhaps the point of reference for what Mr Schalk said, namely that the least I can ask of the rulers is that they take with them the concerns that I have shared extensively in this Chamber today, including in their political groups. In this case, both are of the same party. That's one. Two. I am not going to repeat the story, but I am very concerned about the image that is already emerging that it is going to the workers and the salt to the elderly. I said it very carefully today, because I don't know what it says. That has been the case for a long time and I should like to convey the message that this tax burden and tax discrimination must be brought to an end. You don't increase pensions for 20 years, even from primary education and care, which have a pension from €500 to €600 gross. If you think it's normal that that isn't increased by accounting rules of politics... Then it is said that there is nothing we can do about it, because the rate of calculation is low. The calculation rate is low, because the first and second financial review framework states that market interest rates must be taken into account, even if they are zero and even if they are 10%. Everyone feels that this is unfair and those voices are getting stronger and stronger. I predict that if this policy is not adjusted, the pension agreement will come under great pressure. The FNV says: if these pensions are not increased, we demand that the AOW goes up. The Van Dijk motion didn't help. This will probably happen if the minimum wage goes up in structural terms. I won't say anything about it, and neither will you, of course. That's the problem. If you don't raise pensions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u211	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u212	... then you have to do something about the AOW, especially if that indexation is 5% or 6% instead of 1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u213	Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u214	Mr President, I am not getting an answer at all. I would be happy not to burden colleagues with my concerns any further. But I do want to put it here, the shorter the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u215	Thank you. It's very much appreciated. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u216	I want to get the gloom out of the debate a little bit. The Secretary of State says I can't do much anymore. Well, that's fine. I understand that very well, because he's literally at a starting point. At the same time, Mr Van Rooijen should not be so negative, because he is also at a starting point, because we are going to a new coalition. He hears what's going on here, doesn't he? A new coalition therefore knows that in order to have a majority here, more is needed than the parties of the coalition. I am therefore entirely pleased with everything that the Secretary of State has not promised, because the following can do so. We're gonna go on with the fight, aren't we? We're not gonna pretend the First Chamber doesn't matter anymore, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u217	Thank you, Mr Crone, for this third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u218	Do you agree? I mean, does the Secretary of State agree? I'm not disgruntled at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u219	No, that's clear. You look happy, too. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u220	As a member of the House of Representatives, I very much agree with Mr Crone. Mr President, I have a few small things left. I have another question from Mr Van der Voort. It was about the situation ofzzp'ers and how it works out with tax debts. I have just explained the generous five-year repayment scheme. I forgot to mention earlier that we are also keeping the recovery interest on debts low. This also applies to the tax debts ofzzp'ers. The above measures focus in particular on business debts of the entrepreneur. Entrepreneurs can also be personally liable for corporate debts. In order to settle these personal debts, these entrepreneurs can in turn call on municipal debt relief. Of course, my arrangements focus on the corporate debts ofzzp'ers. But I share Mr Van der Voort's concerns about the position ofzzp'ers in this crisis at all, but actually broader. We have noticed that the buffers were very low in this crisis. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ester pointed out that, in his view, taxpayers rightly felt that the box 3 levy was very unreasonable, not on actual returns but on fictitious returns. I have a whole answer here explaining the current system, but I understand that Mr Ester is not very enthusiastic about it. I'm not, so I'm not gonna do that. I shall now go into Mr Crone's frame. For the first time, there is a new cabinet, and I repeat my point a few hours ago, there is a real perspective ready to apply the capital efficiency levy in the Netherlands on the basis of actual returns. That took 20 years. That's way too long. I agree. But I repeat what Minister Zalm said when the standard rate of return was introduced. This Chamber knows very well; there was one of the members of your Chamber who said that yesterday. Minister Zalm said, "You must be a huge loser if you're not gonna make it to 4%." That situation has changed. It's been too long. I agree with that, but in my honour and conscience I have done what I can to do about it, namely by preparing this plan. Finally, the question of the SGP, but also the VVD, I thought: where is the burden of proof for the anti-cooperation clause, for employers or employees? The targeted exemption for homework costs and the targeted exemption for travel to the fixed place of work cannot be applied on the same day. The burden of proof that there is no coincidence lies, in principle, with the employer. This means that the employer's administration must show the distinction between home working days and days on which they have travelled to a fixed place of work. This can be demonstrated by an agreement between the employee and the employer. It is not necessary for you to record separately for each day what you have done. Here again I am full circle back to my dilemmas, the curse of good intentions, because this is a complicated arrangement. But, yes, this complicated arrangement was widely requested. We tried to shape him as best we could. Mr. Chairman. I therefore hope that I have now responded a little better to the feelings of the Chamber with regard to the questions. I shall now turn to the assessment of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u221	I would also be given an answer on the Council of State's policy rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u222	I believe that the answer to this question is "but I have lost it for a moment in my set; excuse that we will follow the advice of the Council of State, so if Mr Schalk would like to accept it, then I am grateful to him. Mr. Chairman. I am in favour of the motion by Mr Otten and Mr de Vries, 35927, letter G, who asks that the current state attorney should not be involved in tax and surcharge matters. I had a rather solid debate in the House of Representatives with Mr Omtzigt on a similar motion. That doesn't really have much to do with the content, but that simply has to do with the fact that this is not in my remit. There's a window contract. The government as a whole has a contract with the state attorney. The Minister of Justice and Security, who is responsible for this, and so it should be, has given a research mission to see if this should continue in this way. That assignment is broader than "is this a good lawyer?'. It's going wider. I think Mr Otten, when I listened to him like that, is happy with that in itself. The research assignment is broader, because it is also about the question: is this the right way to do it? But in this form, I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u223	The Secretary of State now says: it is in the Ministry of Justice, because it has a framework contract. If this kind of thing happens like it happened with the county attorney, it seems to me that you're ending that window contract, but that aside. It is, of course, entirely up to this Secretary of State to give orders to this office or not. It is also possible to say that this motion, which we have tabled in the context of the Tax Plan, should at least stop using this office for tax and surcharge matters. If Mr Grapperhaus wants to continue with the Justice Department, that is another matter. This motion does not specifically reflect that. We can at least frame it in this area. That was the background to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u224	I tried to argue that, unfortunately, it does not work that way. The government as a whole has a contract with Pels Rijcken. We sometimes use the state attorney in tax and surcharge cases, so now we are going to promise that we will no longer use this country's lawyer but another, is simply breach of contract. It can't be like that. This really is a rule of law, where we conclude contracts with each other. This is not about whether this is the right country lawyer and whether this is a good way of awarding contracts. You must have that discussion with Mr Grapperhaus. That's exactly what he's investigating. I thought your question went deeper than just worrying about this office. So I thought your question went deeper than that, and that is what Mr Grapperhaus is going to investigate. But I really can't promise that we or that our successors will not be using the state's attorney from now on. That is what you are asking us to do, and that seems to me to be an irresponsible statement. So I'd really like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u225	When I hear the word "contract breach" in relation to a firm where the top man over a period of twenty years...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u226	No, we just agreed that we're not going to talk about people who aren't here, especially not in a negative way. We're not talking about you if you're not here. We do not, and you will not be given the floor. You can talk about something else. You don't wish that. Then we shall return to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u227	This brings me to the next motion, the motion by Mr Vendrik, Mr Crone, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mrs Prast and Mr Van Rooijen on the extension of the first disc. I explained in detail that this was made law last year. We've all shared this. Mr President, in order to reduce the suffering on this point, I would like to advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. I have Isaac and Jacob here; it's really getting biblical. I have Mrs. Prast's motion here. I think that's 35927, letter I, so with the I of Isaac.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u228	Yeah, that's right, about fictional returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u229	Sure. We are going to work as quickly as possible to bring about a real return. I have had a dozen motions in the House of Representatives asking: can you do something else for savings? My reaction to that dozen ranged from "I'm gonna investigate" to "I really can't." We've really been watching this. It can't be. It's gonna be a mess. The only thing I can say to Mrs. Prast is this. If we can already interpret the motion in such a way that "as soon as possible" means "as soon as we introduce a system based on real return in 2025" "I'm not going to sell sweet sandwiches," then the verdict is Chamber. But if "as soon as possible" means "next year or year after," then that is not going to work and I have to discourage the motion. Then I come to Mr Van Rooijen's motion of 50PLUS. What does Mr Van Rooijen say? He says that inflation is higher than expected by Mrs Squarcialupi. At least that's true now. He says: we expect this to be the case in 2022. We do not know that yet, but there is a discussion going on, I think we have had a good discussion in this debate about whether inflation will be temporary or not. It requests that a one-off AOW allowance be paid to the AOW beneficiaries in 2022. I am going to discourage this motion and I think Mr Van Rooijen would have expected it. We've done a number of things. I'm gonna... Otherwise, the viewer of this debate could take the view that we do not want to do anything, but that is not true at all. We have partly compensated for the increase in energy prices, including for pensioners. We've taken a hell of a lot of action in there. Let me remind you that we nailed 3.2 billion dollars there, so let me get that straight to you. In addition, we have the concession low income for energy. In the debate on his budget last week, Secretary of State Wiersma also promised the House of Representatives that he would monitor closely the development of purchasing power. He has also said that a committee will be set up to look at the level of the social minimum, and this is also about the elderly. So I think the cabinet is doing a lot, but this motion, this afternoon, I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u230	Fortunately, the Secretary of State called it himself. It's in the motion and he read it to me: it's a one-time thing. In other words, it does not matter whether the hyperinflation of this moment... In Germany inflation has never been this high and in America it is also 7%. I am concerned that this hyperpeak is a major purchasing power blow at the moment, especially for the elderly, because they do not receive an increase in income. Fortunately, working people get an average of 2.5% increase, the elderly get nothing at all. Of course they get something from the 3.2 billion, which I mentioned this afternoon, but nothing else. That's the concern. For that inflation blow we want a one-time small increase in the AOW, a concession. There is. It's $26 a month. Our motion calls for a one-off, short increase of €16. €16! The AOW goes up by a few tens on an annual basis and I ask once to add €16. €16!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u231	Thank you. It's €16. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u232	I think it's €16, Mr. President. No, I'm teasing Mr. Van Rooijen, but he knows that too. No, I'm going to keep dissuading this motion. It is simply the case that a new coalition agreement will be announced tomorrow. Then there will be a new cabinet. That's gonna start in January. That cabinet will, of course, take action if the purchasing power picture gives rise to it. That seems inevitable to me. I thought this cabinet showed that it is willing and able to do so very quickly with energy. Over $3 billion, I'll repeat it again. I think a next cabinet, if that inflation is real... I'm going to say it one more time: with those inflation rates, you have to be a little careful. Mr Van Rooijen talks about hyperinflation, but 5% is not hyperinflation, just to be clear. He's talking about figures from Germany that were much higher yesterday. Just so we're clear, those are the numbers in the wholesale trade. They are not output prices, but they are figures in the wholesale trade. They go up very much, not only because of pressure on the demand side, but also because there are supply problems in the economy, because of the corona crisis, and Mr Van Rooijen knows that too. He looks at me like "it's gonna be a pain in the ass where it comes from, as long as it's compensated" to fill in his thoughts, no, Mr. Chairman. It has the attention of the cabinet, but right now I have to discourage this motion. There really is no other flavor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u233	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u234	I'm not talking about mess. Luckily, you're not suggesting that, I suppose, although I heard something like that. I am not concerned about whether inflation is temporary or not. The point is that this week there's a short peak of 6%, I think. I'm just asking for a short-term, one-time support. I am not asking for a structural increase, because I do not know what inflation is going to do, but you should not talk about longer inflation when I talk about today's inflation. For a moment there, I would like a small allowance for people with a small pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u235	Mr President, I have already said what I wanted to say. I'm on motion 35927-K. I'm actually going to give them the same treatment as motion 35927-L. Mr van der Linden's motion is a sympathetic and sensible motion, but at a very, very strange time. There's like a new team waiting, later, with a new chord. You do not know the content of that agreement. And then it's kind of crazy to be here judging Chamber to a motion that actually suggests that it's gonna be nothing again. I can't do that. Mr Van der Linden did not expect that either. What I can do is to do the same with Mr Otten's motion, both to ask Mr Van der Linden and Mr Otten to hold this motion until you know what is happening, what is in the coalition agreement. Mr Otten is looking at me very displeased, but I mean it really well. If you think there is reason to do something bigger than the coalition agreement, whether it is Mr Van der Linden's broad plan or Mr Otten's personal tax allowance, which I can imagine in terms of content, then you can give a much better judgment. Otherwise, I'm going to dissuade them both, but that's also so unfriendly in my very last debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u236	We will not ask to vote on it today, but we will vote on it next week, when we have read that agreement. If there is any reason to say that this is being filled out spectacularly, we will, of course, withdraw this motion. If not, we can vote on it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u237	Thank you. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u238	Van der Linden is now setting the bar very high with "spectacular." Now that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u239	Perhaps that is what is spectacular for Mr Van der Linden for us. The difference between Mr Van der Linden's motion and our motion is that our motion builds on an adopted motion in the First Chamber of 2019, about that investigation coming about. Nor are we going to ask for a vote on this motion today. We would like to wait and see what comes with the coalition agreement, but it is a fundamentally different matter, because this is a motion that builds on an adopted motion. Well, that's another point. But again, we don't have a problem waiting for it. Then we can take a look, as Mr Van der Linden just said, at how that all works out and we can decide on it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u240	Thank you, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u241	I appreciate that waiting time. We may also be able to use it to check history, because I have now been informed on the app that your proposal was addressed in the reply in November 2020. But I don't remember it like that. Perhaps Mr. Otten will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u242	Well, I do. A kind of commitment was made there, but we also dealt with it in the Committee on Finance. The conclusion was actually that that commitment was not fulfilled properly, so this is not adequate. That is why we raised this issue on 16 November with a new motion. So we have now withdrawn it and replaced it with the new motion with letter M, I say out of my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u243	L.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u244	Yes, L. It is true that this was discussed at the time, but at least that commitment was not sufficiently fulfilled in the opinion of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u245	So the verdict remains the same, namely the question of holding the motion. Mr President, this brings me to the end of my reply. Maybe I can still thank the Members of the Chamber for a very pleasant debate. I've appreciated it very much. It was a debate in a series of debates I had with the First Chamber, which I have all appreciated. Thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u246	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Supplements and Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u247	Mr. Chairman. Answering three questions. The first question was raised by Mr Crone of the PvdA, whether the one-off energy compensation will be tax-free. That's what he's gonna be. This means that it does not go through with the taxable income and does not have any effect on any increases. Then there is the question of Mr Ester of the Christian Union, how I see the role of parliament in preventing future affairs. Of course, that's quite a big question. You also asked my colleague whether Parliament should not be addressed with exhortation and whether the limits of implementation have been reached. I have already said a little bit more about how I look at the issue of this issue and the importance that there is for all parties to keep looking at the question: if we then make a new law or rule, does it really do something good for people? Or rather: can we by regularly evaluating... We also said in the cabinet response to the POK that it is not only necessary to do execution tests, but that you also have to do input tests. You have to look carefully at whether a particular law or rule actually achieves what you want. I think it is important that your Chamber should continue to look at this, not only once, but also think about how it will work out in practice. I also think that the subject I have mentioned is very important: speak to those for whom this policy is intended, keep doing so, and continue to talk to other parties about it. Then I'll talk about that admonishing speech. We do, although sometimes the word "mandatory" is not so much the issue. Recently, at the request of the Chamber, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and I said that in that case we do not consider further compensation wise because it would be an enormous task in the implementation. That was about loan assistance. Perhaps that will also be the subject of discussion in your Chamber. We have said very clearly there that we do not consider it wise, even on the basis of the execution tests, to do any more compensation, however hard and annoying that may be for those who are concerned. That, I think, is also an important lesson to continue to do, and at the same time, of course, to ensure that if there are distressing situations there are other ways to resolve them. Then there is the question of the SGP. That is really what it is about whether you should not wait for additional compensation to be paid when it comes to those arrangements for children, for ex-partners, for parents abroad and also for the other allowances. I have indicated that my priority is to ensure that we work out those arrangements as soon as possible, including the implementation tests, so that we also know what we decide when to start. That starting moment will of course be discussed both in the Lower House and here. I am keen not to wait, especially with this child scheme, to ensure that it can be implemented as soon as possible. But I agree with you that we need to ensure that there is not just some kind of cannibalization effect with the arrangements that are currently being implemented. I think that this is a good time to decide what the right time is for us to put in place arrangements when the implementation tests have also been carried out. They'll be here in a few months. In the first months of next year we are going to do so, in combination with the recalibrate. Then I think I have answered the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u248	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u249	I will close the debate and deal with the five legislative proposals. Then I come to the point of the motions. I see Mr Vendrik walking to the interrupting microphone. I actually wanted to deal with the five legislative proposals first. I don't know if it's about the legislative proposals. No. First of all, I would like to list the legislative proposals separately. Then I'll come to the motions, to keep it apart for a while. 35927, Amendment of some tax laws and some other laws. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35928, Other fiscal measures 2022. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35931, Law implementing tax-duty measure from the second EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. 35933, Act against mismatches in the application of business principle. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35873, Amendment to the Tax Reduction Act on Wages and Social Insurance and the Income Tax Act 2001 repealing the Job-related Investment Discount. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. Firstly, Mr Otten has asked for his motion 35927, letter G on the amendment of some tax laws and some other laws. I shall be voting on the other motions today. I give the floor to Mr Otten for a brief explanation of his procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u250	Mr. Chairman. In replying to the Secretary of State that this should be seen in a broader context with the framework contract with the Ministry of Justice, we decided to hold the motion until the debate can be held with Minister Grapperhaus or his successor, because that is more appropriate, we think. So we will waive the vote and hold the motion until further notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u251	So you're withdrawing your order proposal to vote on motion 35927, letter G, tonight? Furthermore, do you also wish to postpone the vote on this motion and not have it taken place next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u252	At least hold until further notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u253	Fine. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u254	I propose that we vote next week on the other motions tabled, but I would be happy to give Members the floor if they so wish. Mr Vendrik would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u255	It is a fine proposal, with one amendment. I would ask you to vote today as soon as possible on my motion, 35927, letter H. The H of Hooray.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u256	Mr Vendrik put to the vote this evening on motion 35927, letter H. In any case, we shall first allow a suspension, so that you can consult with your group if you wish. Can the House accept Mr Vendrik's request?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u257	I see no need to make an exception for this motion, so I suggest that we just vote on it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u258	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. So you don't support the order proposal. I'm gonna ask the Griffin to go with me for a while. Then I ask the other spokesmen to let me know what their group thinks about this. So we already know about the SP and the PVV. Then I give the floor to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u259	D66 would like to vote on this motion next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u260	So you don't support the order proposal. Then the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u261	We would like to vote today, because if it happens next week, there will be no repairs, either left or right. So it seems to me the right of the Chamber to... I appeal to all colleagues, including where appropriate. There's an urgency going on here. That urgency is decisive, regardless of the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u262	Thank you. You support GroenLinks' proposal of order. Then the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u263	You just said we already know about the SP. I had not yet said anything, but I agree with what Mr Crone said, including the reasons for the content. So we support the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u264	Excuse me, I was wrong earlier. You support the order proposal. Then I see Mr Ester standing on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u265	We do not support the proposal. We would like to vote on it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u266	Thank you. Then Mrs Prast on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u267	We do not support the proposal either. We would like to vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u268	Thank you. Then Mrs. Geerdink of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u269	We do not support the proposal either, and we would like to vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u270	Thank you. Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u271	We don't care much. We will be voting against today or next week anyway. So we don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u272	However, I would like to know whether or not you support the order proposal. It's kind of a binary system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u273	We can vote now, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u274	So you are not actually voting; you are voting neutrally. But you can't, Mr. Otten. I really need to know, do you or do you not support the order proposal? You have the right, but you also have the duty to vote, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u275	Well, if Mr Vendrik wants to vote on it, we have no problem voting against it today. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u276	I interpret that as supporting Mr Vendrik's proposal. Mr. Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u277	The CDA does not support the proposal. We want to vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u278	You do not support the proposal. Then Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u279	Mr. Chairman. The courtesy commands me to support Mr Vendrik's appeal. It is no problem to vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u280	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Then there are other spokesmen who don't... I thought Mr. Raven. Oh, and Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u281	No support from Forum for Democracy, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u282	No support from Forum for Democracy. Then Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u283	As far as we're concerned, we'll be voting on it next week, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u284	Thank you. Then Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u285	I don't mind voting tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u286	You support the order proposal? Yeah? Thank you. Then Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u287	Support for tonight's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-8.u288	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I note that 50 votes against the order proposal was rejected and I note that we are voting on all six motions for resolutions tabled next week. This brings us to the end of the votes, which we have not had, and to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Secretary of State and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll close the meeting and wish you all at home.
