ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the joint discussion of the legislative proposals 35619, Merging of the municipalities of Landerd and Uden, 35620, Merging of the municipalities of Boxmeer, Cuijk, Mill and Sint Hubert and Sint Anthonis, 35842, Amendment of the proposal for a law merging the municipalities of Boxmeer, Cuijk, Mill and Sint Hubert and Sint Anthonis, and 35621, Merging of the municipalities of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. In 1674, the fortified city of Grave was shot to pieces during the historic siege of Grave, which lasted four months. The State forces led by Prince Willem III and General Von Rabenhaupt besieged the French Marquis De Chamilly, who fought handsomely and for a long time on behalf of Louis XIV after taking over the city in 1672. A strategically important role in this historic battle played a landweather, a line consisting of a wall with moat that ran from the Gaal heath to the border of the villages of Schaijk and Reek. In the early 1990s, this historic line, the landweather, inspired the name of the municipality of Landerd, a merger between the municipality of Zeeland on the one hand and the municipalities of Schaijk and Reek on the other. Bloody domestic battles with tens of thousands of deaths, including many civilians, such as the siege of Grave, are fortunately distant history. Today's domestic battles are mainly of an administrative and technocratic nature. At most a driver dies occasionally, figuratively, because he can usually stay on pay in search of another post. The merger law Landerd Uden we are dealing with today is such a contemporary administrative battle. Landerd ceases to exist after 28 years, the cores Schaijk, Reek and Zeeland merge, if it is up to this law, with Uden. This administrative battle has been raging since 2013. As in 1674 it is a blow of exhaustion, without muskets, sabers and gunpowder but with an arsenal of weapons from the books of public administration. An arsenal to decide battles in the administrative advantage of the rulers. First of all, there is the banner with the logo of administrative power. I have spoken out before in this house against this term with supposed magic powers. In concrete terms, administrative power is a bit of a bummer for another abolition of a municipality, for once again giving in to technocratic scaling up, the leading mantra in reorganising. The same in Landerd. The lack of administrative power, as the mayor told me, he saw, among other things, that he was not allowed to sit on strategic tables in the region so easily, or something like that. Under that banner of administrative power one struggles with an arsenal of weapons and poundes inhabitants. How about the weapon of the democratic challenge or the vicious administrative festivals that were celebrated? Very good. And, of course, the path of vision, which can help those who oppose it to sleep. Democratic weapons of the administrative upper layer with a strong steering character. On the other hand, there are the administrative weapons of the people: the referendum, of course. This was actually applied once in 2015, but in such a miserable way that this weapon was already professionally disabled. The administrative battle cost the community 3 million in pay, according to the mayors. And yet the peace has not been signed. And that's what makes you think. There is an obvious division among the inhabitants of Schaijk, a considerable part of whom believes that Schaijk is better suited to Oss than to Uden. And if you look at the map, you will understand that that suggestion is only logical. Oss is much closer to Schaijk. I would like to congratulate these people, especially the Schaijk action group, on their brave resistance, and not on Uden. An historical comparison is also appropriate for them. The resistance in Schaijk reminds me of that Gaul village in Asterix and Obelix, that village that offers brave resistance in what looks like an unequal fight against an opponent with numerical force majeure, with more money and with more organization. Unfortunately they do not brew magic potion in Schaijk, but with good arguments and petitions, like this morning, they come a long way. They deserve to be congratulated for that. These inhabitants of Schaijk believe that their democratic injustice is being done to them. It was not because of the reclassification itself that the inhabitants accepted it, so they gave it to... but because of the unequal struggle and the aforementioned use of weapons. They are decided on instead of being given full control over their administrative future. While it's so simple. Why should a merger be forced through challenges, festivals and vision-forming pathways, and why should there be one very simple and effective instrument to quickly resolve the plea clearly and effectively and to achieve a sustained breakthrough? That instrument is, of course, the binding referendum, of which these residents also state: if people vote in favour of Uden by majority, then we accept it. A referendum per village center. It's fine when nuclei are split in a merger. There are good experiences with that too. Look at the Brabant Haaren, which was split into fours at the beginning of this year. The various villages went to Vught, Tilburg, Oisterwijk and Boxtel, with no significant problems and no resistance among the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u4	Here's a dilemma I'm struggling with, too. If a referendum were to be chosen, we would do so if we do so normally at the level of the municipality, because it balances all the collective interests of the municipality. In this case, if we look at how, for example, the city council has reacted, this would still result in Uden being elected rather than Oss. Now I heard you say: that's why you have to organise a referendum per village center.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u6	That means, if you have a community with 20 village centers, you're organizing twenty referendums. The moment you take all those results seriously, when those results aren't congruent, you get a special situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u7	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u8	How are you looking at such a situation where non-congruous results can come out of such a vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u9	There are a few things that matter. In the case of municipalities with twenty or more cores, we question whether this does justice to local self-government. That's pretty big already. I think you should also see how the mood is in the cores. Is there much resistance and resistance or not? In addition, twenty referendums. Democratic festivals are being organised; the best festivals we can come up with are those referendums. If there's a careful outcome to that, then we all have a party to celebrate, don't we? Of course, the question must also be asked as to whether one prefers to remain independent or not. I see that as a huge opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u10	I understand, of course, what Mr Van der Linden is saying. If you look at the map, you can see that Schaijk is a lot closer to Oss than Uden. However, I remember a previous municipal reclassification. It concerned a reclassification with the municipality of Alkmaar. In addition, a former municipality chose to join Alkmaar, while not bordering Alkmaar. That is what you can get at the moment you are dealing with a large number of village centers, in which the choice is varied. This does not improve administrative clarity. How does Mr Van der Linden view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u11	I think you have to weigh administrative clarity against the wishes of the residents. That is also always of enormous importance. In the Netherlands, we have self-government at local level in municipalities. If the majority of the inhabitants say in a referendum that they want to belong to a particular municipality, even if they hardly limit it or not at all, that is a clear mandate and a wish of the inhabitants. That's a big good, I think. I think that is not sufficiently taken into account here, whereas we have just seen that a division of a municipality into four other municipalities without any hassle is fine. I mentioned the example of Haaren in Brabant. We now have the experience of doing this. Mr. Chairman. We must also feel strengthened by the recent outcome of the referendum in the nearby Grave. People there, with a clear majority, elected democratically through a referendum to join the country of Cuijk. It is now. So the people can consult instead of the forced country they didn't choose. It is a victory for democracy which, as far as we are concerned, tastes like more. Why, with the examples of Haaren and Grave, should we persist in a rearguard fight, as it goes in Lander? My explanation is: because it has been going on for so long; we have been at it for so long. It's an act of exhaustion. Let's act as a senate for that. Mr. Chairman. I also think it is appropriate to dwell here on the embarrassment that took place on the other side of the Binnenhof, in the House of Representatives. A hearing was held there in the run-up to this legal process. That hearing didn't go through because of corona measures and didn't take place anymore. Next, MPs Özütok van GroenLinks and Van der Molen of the CDA wrote an amendment, an amendment to add Schaijk to Oss. That is also a regentesque intervention, because then you decide again rather than with the population. This does not do justice to the inhabitants of Schaijk who may wish to join Uden. The announcement of this amendment struck in Landerd like a bomb from the pendulum arm. Then invisible polemics arose for the public in the well-known back rooms. The initiators of the amendment in the House of Representatives had to get the tarpaulin. The amendment went off the table and there was a compromise in place. It was an ill-thought-out compromise, a monstrous compromise, I would say. That is the external evaluation in the spring of 2024, which should consider whether the new merged municipality of Maashorst can continue to exist, as provided for in this law............................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, this is a faux pass. You wonder where the renowned Menno van Coehoorn is to cast the ingenious defense work that the residents of this congregation deserve. If this continues, we will enter into an uncertain fusion trajectory with an external evaluation in 2024 that hangs like the sword of Damocles over the new fusion community. Let's say it doesn't work after all. Then the administrative suffering and the consequences can't be overseen, can they? Furthermore, how reliable is this evaluation? Will there be a referendum later? Or is the weather going through festivals and through vision formation? Isn't that extremely susceptible to influence by politics and government? I therefore appeal to my fellow Members: come on, senate, we must put a stop to this. How seriously do we take the assessment of merger plans as First Chamber of the States-General if we do not intervene here? We have to take responsibility. There are two options here, as far as we are concerned. Option 1 is voting against this bill next week, and then back to the drawing board. Option 2 is to hold this bill until a valid referendum has taken place. If it comes out that the majority of Schaijk and Reek want to be joined by Uden, then the bill can continue. If not, we can do something else just like Grave. For the time being, we opt for option 2: Hold on. The roadmap is simple. reclassification elections are scheduled for November and local elections will take place in March 2022. In a complex world like ours, organizing a valid, binding referendum per core, if necessary a two-stage, really a piece of cake. The current municipalities should be able to do a great deal of work, especially if they get some extra financial support from the minister. Mr. Chairman. The Landerd region is familiar with long-term battles in which the decision ultimately fell through a political decision, such as the siege of Grave, which I started with. The French were not defeated there in 1674, despite the force majeure of forces on the Dutch side. They capitulated under very favourable conditions, because the French king Louis XIV had decided that. Let us as a senate also make the right historical decision for Landerd next week and not agree to this merger law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Linden. Mr Dittrich has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u13	Mr. Chairman. Aristotle's theorem is: "The whole is greater than the sum of the parts." Aristotle lived about 350 years before Christ, but his teachings were still topical in the 21st century AD. "The whole is more than the sum of the parts" applies to the aggregations of municipalities we are discussing today. But why is there a need to shift municipal boundaries, so that independent municipalities are merged into a larger whole? Physical boundaries are losing meaning due to increased mobility over the years we have gone from tractor barge to car as well as through information technology. We switched from the written letter and the postman to the computer and social media. What happens on the other side of the world, we see on our screen at the same time. Then I want to broaden my identity. By broadening our horizons, we also broaden the need to unite with other connections. Where we first identified ourselves with the village centre, it is now easier to feel connected with other links, such as the region, the national state or Europe. But, of course, in addition to scaling up, other factors also play a role. Society is becoming more and more complex. The population of the Netherlands is increasing. The government transfers tasks to the municipalities and this is not always accompanied by sufficient budget. People have become more powerful and long for adequate service by their municipality. The human dimension and distance of civil administration remain relevant. This requires more of the officials in terms of professionalism. Specialist knowledge is not always available anymore. Governing power There is the word "to" is important. In practice, this means that municipalities in the same region will cooperate more with each other. As a result, the step towards merging smaller independent municipalities makes sense. As far as D66 is concerned, this process must meet a number of conditions. There must be valid arguments for the merger and there must be support for the merger between the various municipalities. Then I mean support in the sense of social understanding for the merger. The inhabitants of the various cores must want it. But there must also be administrative support. The directors of the municipality in question must understand the added value of the association and act accordingly. The same goes for the region and the provincial government. In addition, there must be coherence between the different parts, a logic of synergy. There must also be sustainability in the sense that a new municipality to be formed can manifest itself as a new municipality for a long time without being included in a reclassification in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u14	I hear Mr Dittrich of D66 mention some of the principles of the policy framework, which happen to be in line with what D66 seems to think is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u15	Yes. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u16	So I also hear Mr Dittrich say: social support is important and the opinion of the inhabitants must also be involved. Can Mr Dittrich therefore indicate to what extent he considers it important that local referendums, referenda, are also held in order to take the opinion of the population seriously into account in the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u17	Yes, of course I expected that question. I'm about to deal with it when I'm ready in my speech. If you are patient, you will receive an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u18	Then I will wait patiently and come forward when necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u19	Yeah, I'm relying on that. Of course, in the case of merging different municipalities or cores into a larger whole, not everyone is on the same page. Despite the fact that several municipal councils or cores have voted in favour of merging and sometimes even a referendum has been held, for example in Grave, there will of course always be and always will be opponents. Then I think it's important to see what that resistance is in him. Often the opposition of a minority to the merger has to do with the process. People didn't feel taken seriously, they didn't hear well, they didn't communicate well, there was distrust of the government. Discontent about the process can translate into opposition to the reclassification. Of course, there are also objections to certain mergers based on substantive grounds. Some residents prefer to belong to a different municipality than the majority have decided. For example, part of the population of Schaijk is opposed to the reclassification of the new municipality of Maashorst. They'd rather be with Oss. I've reviewed the petitions and the underlying documents that the action group sent us. This morning we received a petition from some of the residents of Schaijk. I brought her here and I'll show her to the minister. "Schaijk wants to be with Oss." Some of the residents really stand for that. How are we supposed to deal with that in the First Chamber? In situations like this with clashing opinions, I see our role as First Chamber a little more remotely, a little reluctant. The principle of subsidiarity actually applies here: local what can be done locally and national what really needs to be done nationally. In The Hague we should not want to decide what should happen to a village centre. If the proposed aggregations from the bottom meet the criteria I have just mentioned, if the added value of merging parts is clear, if the legislative proposal is legally sound, then the D66 Group in the First Chamber is in principle in agreement with the proposed merger. Let me now turn to the content of the various legislative proposals before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u20	I hear Mr Dittrich saying that we in the Chamber should not decide what should happen to a core. I'm glad he agrees that it's a faux pass that they wanted to do it across the street. Don't you think we could do this? If there is a lot of discussion in such a core, if it is, we should say: we do not want to go about it, but we want you to go about it yourself and enter the referendum. That is not how we decide, but what they want in that core. That's beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u21	Mr. Van der Linden, what I have missed in your contribution and in your interruption is that a great deal has happened at local level when we talk about Schaijk............................................................................................................................................................................................. Perhaps that process has not gone smoothly, but there have been two municipal elections. In their election programme, the parties said that Schaijk should be with Uden. People voted for those parties. There's been a debate in the city councils. The municipal councils of both municipalities have decided by majority that they are going to sail this course. So there has been attention to it. You also mentioned living room meetings, a festival, you name it. At local level, therefore, attention has been paid to it. If all this has happened, then the question is: should we in the First Chamber put a line through it and send everything back, while a process of years preceded it? I heard you say it, I believe, started in 2013. I do not think this should be our role; at least that is how D66 sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u22	I've taken note of how things turned out, but after all those processes that have gone through, there's still resistance. There is a dispute as to whether the cases that have taken place have gone reasonably. Shouldn't we say that the referendum should be the final piece? The referendum may also lead to the majority saying that Schaijk should join Uden. Wouldn't it be a beautiful ending? We also saw this example in Grave. Why should we not say that the referendum can be a confirmation as a conclusion to that long-standing process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u23	I believe that the principle of subsidiarity should apply here. Then let it take place at local, perhaps regional, level. We are here in the Upper House in The Hague at the end of the journey. Then we should draw a line here and say: go back to the drawing board; do it again. I don't think this is the right way to go. In other debates, I always hear Mr Van der Linden, and especially Mr Van Hattem, say: 'Who do we think we are in The Hague? That's what they need to discuss at local level." But when it's convenient, it's suddenly turned around. No, it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u24	The who-think-we-we-we-are-in-Den-Haag argument is mainly used by Mr Dittrich of D66. He mentions all kinds of examples of local decision-making, to show why the process would be good. On the contrary, there are a lot of questions to be asked. The reason people voted for a particular local party may also have to do with very different things. In Reek, for example, it was also about the establishment of an ALDI supermarket, to mention only a very trivial example that might have made the difference for a vote, rather than just the argument of the reclassification. Moreover, a referendum on the reclassification was announced by these local parties. So that discussion is much more finer than: yes, there is a majority for it in the city council. In view of these aspects, should Mr Dittrich of D66 not say that we should look at the ultimate litmus test, namely the holding of a referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u25	Mr. Van Hattem, may I ask if you are a member of a city council?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u26	We're not gonna have a mutual cross-examination here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u27	It's not a cross-examination. It's an informative question. I need the answer for my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u28	Mr. Dittrich, Mr. Van Hattem is asking you a question. You are supposed to reply to that, and then you will resume your speech. I am afraid I cannot stop Mr Van Hattem from replying now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u29	I think Mr Dittrich already knows the answer. I'm a member of the city council of's-Hertogenbosch. It won't be the first time I've told you here. If I have to respond to it, I say the following. There are arguments here, with D66 giving substance to local decision-making. It is said that a careful process has been completed. However, Mr Dittrich also talks about a minority who continues to oppose it. Then what is the minority based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u30	Anyway, you had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u31	Now you put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I'm glad to hear you're a member of a city council. You would not accept it if I said here: while the city council of Den Bosch has decided something, we in The Hague are going to decide that things have to be different. You wouldn't want that either. Then you will be the first to stand at the interrupt microphone to say, "What are we thinking? We can handle that locally." That is how I think we should look at this situation. No one here is saying that it has been a very careful process. I just said it didn't go smoothly. Of course, there are always shortcomings in such a process, but we are talking about a process from 2013. There have been conversations over and over again. We know that about 830 people signed a petition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u33	I was curious to see what Mr Dittrich would think of the referendum. That's what it was all about in the end. I would be happy if there would be an intervention from The Hague to stop a wind farm that the city council in Den Bosch had decided on. So I'm not against it a priori.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u34	That's only you if it suits you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u35	The point remains that the referendum should be at the heart of the matter. That has always been the crown jewel of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u37	What's taking you so long? That is certainly the question when Mr Dittrich talks about minorities and majorities, which he assumes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u38	I propose that Mr Dittrich resume his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is so important that there is a directly elected city council that evaluates the election results in a council debate. Then five of the six Council Groups decide to proceed on the same footing. I think you should look very carefully at that democratic process at local level from the First Chamber. That is what we have done, and then I shall come to the chairman, I shall continue with my story until the next assessment. We agree with the merger of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk to the new municipality of Dijk and Waard. I would like to point out that we are confident that the concerns of some of the residents of St Pancras and Koedijk-Noord, who are more oriented towards Alkmaar, will be looked at locally. We give our approval to the merger of Beemster and Purmerend. We have also recently voted in favour of the merger of Amsterdam and Weesp. With regard to the new municipality of Land van Cuijk, I say the following. We are pleased that the Minister has submitted a novelle, so that Grave can be included in the formation of the new municipality as of 1 January 2022 at the same time as the other cores. Finally, Landerd and Uden, who must become the municipality of Maashorst. The process of merging has not gone smoothly, especially with regard to the Schaijk core. I told you. Nevertheless, the proposal to merge from the bottom up. The inhabitants of the Schaijk core are divided. The local directors have paid attention to the reclassification over a period of years. This happened in different ways: with living room meetings, a festival and two municipal elections. The subject was discussed and in the end the municipal councils said: we want to continue with Uden. So we see the benefits of the merger and, as co-legislator, let those benefits outweigh the disadvantages. At some point, a long local discussion needs to be brought to an end by cutting a knot. That gives clarity and hopefully peace. This brings me to the very last point, namely the amendment adopted on an evaluation of this reclassification. The D66 Group in the Upper Chamber did not consider that a sensible amendment. This means that Schaijk is going to Oss in the long term, while it is important, for example, that the administrative apparatus should be placed in the new municipality. It would not be good for the new municipality to operate with the hand brake on it. So my questions to the Minister are the following. Can the Minister explain again what this independent evaluation is going to do? In view of the petition from residents, which the Schaijk action group has offered us with Oss this morning, I would also like to hear from the Minister how the people of Schaijk are involved in the evaluation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u40	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Burg, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are formally discussing three laws and a novella today. The practice shows that the word "Heerhugowaard" falls a lot less often than the word "Schaijk." In my contribution, that will be no different. As a VVD, we agree with the legislative proposals before us. We think it is very good that the Minister has acted so quickly with the novelle. This also shows to the population that the wish of the people of Grave can be implemented very quickly. Hail for that. My contribution will therefore also be limited to the specific issue of Landerd, Schaijk, Uden and Oss. Why municipal mergers? For ease of reference, I would like to add my voice to what Mr Dittrich has just said. I also agree with the conditions that Mr Dittrich has set, although I would like to add a nuance to that. It may be that there is no support for the people and/or city council, but that there are still reasons to have the province decide, intervene and say: there must be a merger here. I'm also thinking about the casusism we had in the past around Haarlem and Bloemendaal, where it didn't happen in the end but hung above the market. So support has a nuance. Mr. Chairman. We find it as a VVD initially to the city council or.q. municipal councils to make the total weighing, because there is more than just the opinion of a certain part of a municipality. You must always see it in conjunction with each other. At the moment you have referendums, referenda are in the area of the municipality, so obvious. At Grave but also two weeks ago at Weesp that resulted in choices whereby the population chose what was also the final proposal. At Landerd, the population of the municipality doesn't seem to move so much. So you can assume that the city council was indeed speaking on behalf of the municipal population as a parliament. The problem, however, is that this does not apply to part of a part of it. I say 'part of a part' because we cannot say that the people of Schaijk are against either. Mr Van der Linden also said it. There are very fanatical opponents. They are moving in an extremely professional way, and that has also led to the amendment relating to an external evaluation. It is indeed a special proposal; let me just put it that way at the moment. But there are also people who don't choose to join Oss. We cannot therefore say: the people of Schaijk do not agree with this. A referendum at core level is not going to work in the VVD's opinion, because you should take all the cores equally seriously. That would not be a problem in this case, but I can imagine that if there is a nuclear referendum at the municipality of Haarlemmermeer or at the municipality of Hollands Kroon, it will lead to a very speckled, unadministrative and undesirable landscape.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u42	But then it is only right that I know Mr Van der Burg as a very practical and pragmatic person. Surely we are not going to use bureaucratic arguments about what could go wrong with municipalities with twenty cores in the future, to experiment here, where it would obviously be possible for three cores? That's a huge opportunity, isn't it? If you make the trade-off at a municipality with 30 cores different, then you are free. But we can do it right here, because we can. That's the practical choice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u43	No, because as a representative of the people of Schaijk, the people of Schaijk prefer me to all other people. However, as a representative of the Netherlands, that is a Member of the European Parliament, I must apply the same rules for everyone. Which would be allowed at Landerd or.q. Schaijk, should also apply elsewhere. Then I don't think it's gonna work. That's one. But that brings... Then I shall continue with my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u44	Unless Mr Van der Linden has a short second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u45	Yeah, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u46	I understand that, because we also have municipalities with some twenty villages, you say that Schaijk is actually the victim of the precedent that would follow if we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u47	The precedent is indeed an important point of attention. Every result of each referendum should be just as kind to us, regardless of the outcome of the referendum. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a complex issue, and that is the external evaluation. Uh...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u48	Finish your sentence. I see Mr Van Hattem coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u49	I would not have been in favour of that external evaluation either. It's something of a thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u50	Every sentence by Mr Van der Burg I listen with interest, but I will come back to the previous point. Now Mr Van der Burg of the VVD actually says: we have a problem when there are a lot of cores in one municipality, because it is difficult to hold a local referendum by heart. Isn't that the right reason not to proceed with further administrative scaling-up where there are many more cores in one municipality? This is now going to happen, for example, at Land van Cuijk, where almost 30 cores will be placed in one municipality. Will this local democracy not be further advanced and unnecessarily distant from the citizen, which means that a phenomenon such as a local referendum is no longer possible at all? And can this happen suddenly in a municipality where there is only one core in the municipality, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u51	I'm not sure I understand. But let there be no misunderstanding that the VVD assumes that municipal scaling-ups, so-called mergers, always come from the bottom up, so come from municipalities, with a single exception. That was the nuance I just had towards Mr Dittrich. So it is not the intention of the VVD to say, because of any construct, that we are now going to make municipalities bigger from above. If it comes from the bottom, we expect the municipality to weigh the interests of all residents and make a choice. And that consideration, which the city council then makes as a parliament of the whole, is more than the sum of the different parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u52	Thank you. Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u53	That's not entirely consistent. I would like to point out the reclassification of the municipality of Haren at Groningen. There is a reclassification imposed from above. That was also supported by the VVD, and also by D66, despite all the fine words just now. But the point is that there are now a lot of municipalities that have already been merged into a forced setting. For example, for the municipality of Landerd they were all swept together on an involuntary basis, after the Schampers Committee 25 years or 28 years ago. What about such places? Do they not have the right to hold a local referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u54	Hence my nuance to Mr Dittrich's story. It's got to come from underneath. There has to be capacity. But there may be reasons for a province to say that we are acting now and we are opting for a forced process of fusion. This should be possible in the context of interests greater than the interests of the relevant core or municipality, or relevant municipalities. That was the nuance. So yes, in the eyes of the VVD there is the possibility that it goes from above, but the starting point is that it goes from below.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u55	I propose that Mr Van der Burg complete his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u56	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I will come to the external evaluation. How am I supposed to see it in front of me? How will this evaluation take place and at what level? At the level of Schaijk? At the level of the former Lander? At Uden's level? It is obvious that in those two years you will not really merge or that you will at least be at risk if the sword of Damocles hangs over your head that you will have to "defuse" again in two years' time. I would like to say this separately from the points that have just been raised. How are you gonna measure it? Who's going to make the decision? When the Uden City Council, the new Uden, takes the decision, will it stop? Will it stop if the city council of the new Uden decides that the merger has been successful and that the people of Schaijk are satisfied? If a referendum is chosen, will you choose it at Schaijk level? Do you choose it at the level of the former Lander? Because even there people can be satisfied or dissatisfied. Or do you choose it at the level of Uden? And what are the criteria you're testing? In short, I would like answers to these questions for the second-term discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u57	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. I now give the floor to Mr Rombouts, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. In other Western European countries the puzzle is laid in one or at most twice. In our country we have been laying puzzle pieces every year for 200 years and yet we are not finished. I'm gonna wait until the minister gets back on the screen. In the 1980s, I conducted research into the way in which municipal reclassifications were established in the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark and Sweden. One of the most remarkable results was that a general process of scaling has taken place in the three countries mentioned, whereby the whole country has been redistributed either in one or in two stages, Belgium and Sweden. Successive governments in the Netherlands, on the other hand, have followed a more gradual approach, in such a way that, over a long series of years, larger or smaller regions have been examined. In Belgium, for example, the number of municipalities was reduced from around 2,400 to 600 at one stroke, from over 1,000 in Denmark to less than 300. In Sweden, the number of municipalities fell from 2,500 to 300 in two major blows. These numbers have hardly changed since the 1970s and the 1980s, with the exception of Denmark, where in 2007 a new large-scale reclassification has reduced the number of municipalities considerably once again, from a small 300 to now just under 100, to be precise 98. These large-scale interventions in our neighbouring countries, in which the whole country went on a rampage, took a period of ten to fifteen years. If we compare this with the approach in our country, we can see that we in the Netherlands have consciously chosen to reclassify small regions. Let me give you a few examples. The island of Walcheren, the Land of Heusden and Altena, the Zaanstreek, Zuid-Limburg, and in later years sometimes whole provinces, such as Friesland, Noord-Brabant and Groningen. Each time this was a relatively small part of our country, although with about the same result. Since the beginning of the nineteenth century, the number of municipalities in our country has fallen from over 1,200 to now over 300. But these small-scale reclassifications took 10 years each. Over the last 25 years, 98 legislative proposals have been put forward, with the same pain in the municipalities that have been abolished as in the large-scale interventions in Belgium, Denmark and Sweden. With this difference that in those other countries the pain was felt at once in a relatively short period of ten years, while in us the pain is felt every time in another small part of the country. So this has been going on for over two centuries. Still, because this morning we witnessed the offer of a petition by the inhabitants of Schaijk. But in Belgium, for example, the Minister in charge of the Tindemans cabinet at the time said: we choose the policy of the shortest pain, rather than that of years of suffering. Successive Cabinets in our country have consciously opted for a bottom-up approach over the last few decades. Previously, municipal reclassifications were carried out from above, more specifically: under the direction of the provincial authorities, whether or not at the initiative of the Minister of the Interior. For a long time this policy has been abandoned and the initiative lies with the municipalities themselves. The CDA Group has always supported this policy because it also attaches great importance to the opinion of the local authorities in question and to the support of the inhabitants of the municipalities to be merged. Nevertheless, I would like to receive a reflection from this outgoing minister on my view that acceptance cannot and should not be the only criterion. This question also arises when we zoom in on one or rather two of today's three merging proposals, namely the proposal on the Land of Cuijk and the proposal on the municipalities of Landerd and Uden. Or perhaps rather: if we take a helicopter view of the region of which these two subregions are part, Northeast Brabant and North Brabant. More specifically, I would like to ask the Minister how, with the knowledge of today, she looks back at the fragmented approach of the municipal reclassification of this area over the last 20 years. After the major reclassification operation in Brabant in the nineties, involving the entire province, the merger of Ravenstein and Oss followed in 2003. In 2011 the merger of Oss and Lith followed. In 2015, the municipality of Maasdonk was dissolved, adding its cores to the municipalities of's-Hertogenbosch and Oss. In 2017, the former municipalities of Schijndel, Sint-Oedenrode and Veghel voluntarily merged into the new municipality of Meierijstad. And just at the beginning of this year, the still young municipality of Haaren was divided over Boxtel, Oisterwijk, Vught and Tilburg. In the view of this Minister, have the right choices always been made afterwards? Shouldn't the provincial government have been given more direction? Could a more comprehensive approach have prevented the discontent among a large part of the inhabitants of Schaijk and the frustration of the municipality of Oss about the division of Schaijk at Uden? Couldn't a tighter control from above have prevented the late connection of Grave as well? Has the Minister considered that the reclassification of Northeast Brabant has now been completed? And if so, does the Minister confirm the status of the independent Boekel as the proud Brabant sister of that unbearable village in Gaul from the books of Asterix and Obelix?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u59	I fully agree with Mr Rombouts on the latter. I am more concerned with the tighter control from the province advocated by Mr Rombouts of the CDA. During the reclassification of Uden and Landerd we saw that the province actually got rid of it very easily by sending a note, such as "fine, we have no objections to this reclassification." What more tighter role would Mr Rombouts have had in this development?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u60	Mr Van Hattem knows his classics better than I do. In my opinion, he knows the municipal reclassification policy framework much better than I do. The province has no position in that policy framework and so it is often just a note, like 'we have seen it and it seems to us to be something'. In the past, only 20, 25 years ago, the province had an explicit directional role. It was accepted, too. It was then in the policy frameworks. Then a deputy, often preceded by a committee of inquiry, looked at the question of what was best. You yourself mentioned the Schampers Committee. The basis for this was one argument, but not the decisive argument. Other issues were raised as well. I'm about to mention them, but think of questions like "what could be the position of such a new municipality in the region?" "Can this new municipality face the problems that the inhabitants face today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u61	Isn't there a piece of administrative arbitrariness? After all, the province can still be on top of it if it so wishes. The law still has plenty of opportunities for this. We have seen it recently, for example, in the reclassification plan around Nuenen and Eindhoven. That was finally cancelled because there was no support for it in Provincial States, but if the province really wants it and if there is a political desire for it, then the province can still go ahead under the current legislation. For example, we have also seen that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u62	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u63	Does Mr Rombouts see that these opportunities exist and that it is also a bit of political opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u64	You call that political opportunity, I call it embarrassment. I see a minister who is busy with other things and with other subjects in her portfolio and who thinks: if it is so prepared from the bottom, what will I do about it? And that's what a provincial government does exactly the same thing. This is partly because parties like yours place such a heavy weight on that acceptance criterion and say that only if the inhabitants want it can it happen. This has led to the creation of a policy framework over the last 20 years, in which this criterion of acceptance has become so dominant that arguments of a socio-economic and socio-cultural nature hardly play a role anymore. And that's a shame. I myself have been President of the region about 20 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u65	Thank you. Would you like to finish before we go all the way into the past with each other? Mr. Van Hattem, has your question been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u66	Just a few more minutes. I am not going to bring up the Huijbregts committee and everything else, because that might be a little too much of a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u67	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u68	The point is that Mr Rombouts says that, as far as he is concerned, the province must have a more guiding role rather than the bottom-up role from the community itself where the support should be found. Is that the correct conclusion I can draw from Mr Rombouts' speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u69	Very good, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u70	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u71	I have put a number of questions to the Minister. Does she actually recognize or confirm the status of that one village that remains as a sister of that village from the book of Asterix and Obelix? Or would the Minister recommend to her successor in the municipal reclassification policy framework in the future to strengthen the role of provincial government in some way so that, in the argument under future reclassification proposals, also aspects such as strengthening the region and being able to cope with the major challenges of tomorrow, together with other larger municipalities in the region, can play a stronger role? Finally. A large part of the inhabitants of Schaijk would have preferred their village classified with Oss for respectable reasons. They blame their city council but meanwhile this minister and the House of Representatives and after the vote next week probably also this Chamber, that they were never explicitly asked whether they wanted to be merged with Oss or with Uden. Such a thing could have come out of the sky in the direction of the province. Can the Minister give the guarantee to these inhabitants of Schaijk... Often you get the answer that guarantees cannot be given but you can give a guarantee about this question, because it is not about the content but about the process. So can the Minister give them the assurance that the evaluation enforced by the House of Representatives will not be a blow for bleeding but an unbiased analysis of the effects of the chosen classification, the new classification, for the administration of the new municipality and not to mention the interests, the services for the citizens of Schaijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The members of the PvdA Group thank the government for answering the questions raised about the legislative proposals before us. I am speaking today on behalf of 50PLUS. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing three proposals for merging municipalities, three new municipalities: Maashorst, Land van Cuijk and Dijk and Waard. A few weeks ago we already voted on the reclassification of Amsterdam and Weesp. Each of these proposals has its only specific problem, but together they show a fundamental development, namely that of scaling up to larger municipalities. This development is again part of the wider debate on the relationship between the levels of government in the Netherlands, on which we held a policy debate in this Chamber on 11 May last. It is important to mention this broader discussion, because in each of the proposals before us today, the scale up to a larger municipality is explicitly seen in the light of increased administrative capacity. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on the new municipality of Land van Cuijk, for example, it says that the municipalities concerned want to continue as one municipality "to jointly realise their administrative ambitions and face societal challenges." The new municipality of Maashorst states: "The municipalities themselves choose a common future because they believe that this offers more opportunities for residents, civil society organisations and companies than if they go on separately." Finally, in the new municipality of Dijk and Waard, the desire to improve administrative power was also central to the municipality of Langedijk. "This wish was partly motivated by national developments that made it increasingly difficult for the municipality to carry out its tasks independently at a high quality level." Mr. Chairman. It is good that the mergings of the municipalities were made on the initiative of the municipalities themselves, although there are other preferences in the cores of some municipalities. Also, the process wasn't always spotless, it's been said before. It is nice that the late wish of the municipality of Grave to join the new municipality of Land van Cuijk can still be realized in time via a novelle. But the quotes quoted also raise the question of how much freedom the municipalities actually had in order not to scale up. The last quote clearly indicated this: "national developments that made it increasingly difficult for the municipality to carry out its tasks independently at a high quality level." Is the merger of municipalities still a free choice, now that the municipalities have been given more and more tasks on their plate? In the note following the report, the government even speaks of a gap experienced by the municipalities. Can the Minister state what the words 'on the initiative of the municipalities concerned', which can be found in each of the explanatory notes, mean in this light? How much scope did the municipalities concerned still have not to scale up, given the national developments which require the municipalities to increase their administrative power? Mr. Chairman. At present, this Chamber is also discussing the legislative proposal to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of common regulations. Because even after the merger of the municipalities we are talking about today, the scale of the new municipalities will often be insufficient to carry out all the tasks properly. These new municipalities will once again cooperate with other municipalities in a mess of common regulations, under pressure from democratic legitimacy. We're not gonna fix that today. This requires a fundamental debate, which the Council of State is also asking for and which we began with in this Chamber on 11 May. In that debate on 11 May, I tabled a motion calling for that fundamental debate to strengthen the position of the Minister of the Interior as guardian of the democratically elected co-governments within the government. That motion therefore directly affects the problem and the legislative proposals we are discussing today. That motion was not rejected, but after the vote it turned out that one group was supposed to have voted in favour. That is why I am considering retableing the motion today in the second term. It is aimed at the cabinet formation and, in view of the progress of the cabinet formation, is still topical. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few comments on the evaluation that has been planned have already been discussed in the draft law on the merger of the municipalities of Landerd and Uden in the new municipality of Maashorst. The PvdA Group has agreed in the further reply that the evaluation will be carried out by an independent agency which has experience of this. It also reads that the municipality of Oss will somehow be involved in this evaluation. The Minister does not exclude that the evaluation could lead to the merging of the Schaijk and Reek cores with the municipality of Oss. This underlines the importance of the evaluation, but does this mean that other people have already said something about it? How can a new municipality with a handbrake be prevented from operating? Can the Minister undertake to send final agreements on the approach, design and implementation of the evaluation to the Chamber before this evaluation is carried out? We look forward to the Minister's answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u74	Did Mr Crone just say that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u75	Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u76	Koole, I'm sorry. Excuse me. Did Mr Koole just say that a motion had been tabled in the House of Representatives which did not make it there, but which would have made it if the group that subsequently said 'we had been in favour' had voted in favour, and that is why you retabled him? Did you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u77	No, I was referring to the motion I tabled myself in this Chamber on 11 May. It has been voted on and this motion has not been able to do so, as I have said, while on the same day as that of the vote, one group from this Chamber said that it voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u78	I misunderstood Mr Koole, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u79	Thank you, Mr Koole, and that will be clarified. I can now give the floor to Mr Van Hattem, who will speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u80	Mr. Chairman. Today we are again discussing some steps of this minister towards administrative scaling up by bringing together a whole trite of municipalities. The distance between citizen and government is increasing in these mini-provinces with many dozen villages and cities. The new municipality of Land van Cuijk, the name says it all, is even becoming a country within our Netherlands with the old feudal state that formed the Land van Cuijk during the ancien régime. A power model that may appeal to the D66 maiden more than the local municipal government we've known since the French time. For municipalities that join the local commune, the local community, is no longer a place. The professional directors and cosmopolitan consultants are now the neofeudal lords of the new megamunicipalities, i.e. the reclassification gamuts. By the way, the glory Boxmeer did not belong to the historic Land of Cuijk, so the current administrative power aristocrats go a little further. The COELO, the Centre for Economic Research of the Lower Governments, recently concluded in a report that municipal reclassifications are bad for democracy. Less inhabitants of re-classified municipalities go to the ballot box, the distance between citizens and politics has been increased and social standards are falling. In the municipality of Landerd, one of today's reclassification municipalities, there was also for many years discontent about the composition of this municipality after the previous reclassification, 28 years ago, when the municipalities Zeeland and Schaijk were merged. There is now a scoop on top of that mistake made at the time, by adding Landerd fully to Uden. An even larger municipality, in which especially the Schaijk core recognizes itself even less. It may sound crazy what I'm about to say, but an earlier referendum on Landerd's reclassification plans has made no meaningful contribution. However, this is not due to the instrument of the referendum as such, but to the poor design. There were too many options and the final preferred variant of a merger between Landerd and Bernheze was not feasible. Nor did the referendum do justice to the divided relations between the Schaijk and Zeeland cores. A genuinely meaningful referendum, which also distinguishes between the different cores, was not possible. A request from 1,100 inhabitants of Schaijk for such a referendum was rejected by the municipality, although it complied with the local referendum regulation. The choice in a referendum must be a clear choice and not one that can subsequently provide all kinds of new options that can be filled in in a way that is administratively arbitrary. How can the Minister speak of a careful process and social support now from well-controlled surveys by the inhabitants of Schaijk it appears that they do not want to join Uden in a majority and prefer Oss? As far as PVV is concerned, a formal referendum at the heart of Schaijk should still be necessary. According to the Minister, the 2015 referendum in Landerd was not intended to gain support for the current reclassification, but to assess the six different variants. At the same time, the Minister uses the referendum to support public support. In addition, the Minister states that qualitative instruments are preferable to quantitative instruments, because in qualitative terms a referendum is less effective, according to the Minister. What is it now, Minister? Are only the desired reactions, such as those of the usual suspects at the Maashorst Festival, organised by the municipality, acceptable and as qualitative? Or is it, to quote Godfried Bomans in his Buitelingen: "We consult others only in the expectation to hear our own opinion confirmed"? Is that at the heart of the Minister's qualitative instruments? The people of Uden have not been able to speak in a referendum at all. The municipal leaders and ministers assumed that the inhabitants were there for the reclassification and that the entrepreneurs too would like nothing more than to be part of the new municipality of Maashorst. Recently, as First Members of Parliament, we received a letter from the recreational entrepreneurs from Uden, who are distraught and feel fooled. That is what they are literally saying because with this reclassification the tourist tax will also be introduced. They therefore oppose the reclassification. Unfortunately, this fits in with the picture of many reclassifications. Despite all the fine words, the costs increase and the local charges, from the tourist tax to the dog tax, go up considerably, as in the Groningen Haren. I referred to it earlier. The inhabitants and the city council of Haren were against the reclassification with Groningen, but among other things D66 voted for it in this Chamber, despite the fine words that the process must come from below. In the reply, the Minister cites the reclassification of the other municipality of Haaren, in Brabant and with double a, as a shining example of administrative power and impact, with the various cores joining neighbouring municipalities. Then why can't Schaijk follow this example? Then why do not the inhabitants of Schaijk have the same opportunity to choose the neighbouring municipality of Oss? I'd like a response from the Minister. Now there will be an evaluation of the merger of Landerd and Uden, after two years as an administrative sweetener, with an explicit look at the Schaijk core. In assessing the future stability of the new municipality, the Minister has only taken into account a reclassification including the Schaijk core. She says she cannot judge whether a reclassification without Schaijk would also be future-proof. The Minister also states that, on the basis of the reclassification advice, he cannot assess whether the new municipality without Schaijk could have sufficient administrative power. That is strange and contradictory, because after two years there will be an evaluation to continue possibly exclusively Schaijk. Can the Minister indicate what these statements mean for the evaluation and for the future stability and governance of the new municipality of Maashorst, if Schaijk were to leave? The Minister also states that the municipalities have well involved their inhabitants in the reclassification process, while no specific criteria or indicators have been established to assess the extent to which this is good. The experience of many inhabitants of Schaijk is in any case very different. What's this gonna mean for the evaluation? Is this the same degree of arbitrariness, or is the Minister prepared to set process indicators now, so that it is clear to everyone on what grounds the evaluation will take place? And can the Minister clearly indicate which indicators will guide her assessment? The Minister states that the first interviews with the Examination Office for the evaluation are already taking place at official level. On whose authority are these talks conducted and with what purpose and mission? To what extent is the government involved? The Minister also states that, in accordance with the amendment adopted, the research will distinguish between the different cores. Is the Minister prepared to make a zero measurement at least? Speaking of the various cores, yesterday we received an e-mail from the Reek Committee that they do not recognize themselves in the Minister's reaction that there is sufficient support in the Reek core for a reclassification with Uden. They wonder what this is based on now that no survey or referendum has taken place there. They argue that although the village voted in large numbers for a local party which is in principle in favour of the reclassification, it had first promised a referendum or a survey. I'm afraid that promise hasn't been made. Can the Minister indicate what it bases this support for the core Reek on? Shouldn't the people of Reek be able to speak in a local referendum first? Then there's one more concern. Recently, the municipality of Uden insisted on its ambitions for the Regional Energy Strategy. The installation of wind turbines in most of Uden is not possible due to the presence of Volkel Air Base. Now they saw a solution: after the reclassification, in the area north of Schaijk. This makes Schaijk the drain of Uden, where the wind turbine can be dumped. Would this not be all the more reason for the people of Schaijk to vote through a referendum? Mr. Chairman. Then about the other reclassifications. The reclassification of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk is in principle subject to the same questions as those of Landerd and Uden. There, too, an evaluation of the Koedijk and Sint Pancras cores is planned in two years' time, which may want to find a connection with the municipality of Alkmaar. Exploratory discussions for the evaluation are also taking place there. Can the Minister indicate whether indicators are being set and zero measurement is being carried out here? The Minister says that the opinion of the inhabitants of Koedijk and Sint Pancras will be specifically requested. Can the Minister explain why this is happening there and not in Schaijk and Reek? Finally. To return to the reclassification for the new municipality Land van Cuijk. In the municipalities of Grave, Mill and Sint Hubert, the people were allowed to vote in a local referendum. Chapeau! But in the other participating municipalities, Boxmeer, Cuijk and Sint Anthonis, that did not happen. As far as PVV is concerned, this reclassification cannot continue until all the inhabitants of all the municipalities concerned have been able to express their views in a referendum. The question is whether they all consider a reclassification desirable. In these municipalities, too, there is a lot going on. For example, in the new municipality of Land van Cuijk there will be two major nuisance asylum seekers' centres: one in Grave and one in Overloon, now the municipality of Boxmeer. The current municipality of Boxmeer has recently indicated its intention to limit this azc, but will that also apply to the new mega-municipality? Can the Minister indicate how the interests of the inhabitants will be dealt with? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a number of motions I would like to table. I shall begin the motion on the consultation of the inhabitants of the Schaijk and Reek cores. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many inhabitants of the Schaijk and Reek cores wish to join the municipality of Oss instead of Uden;]] [[noting that investigations clearly show that the inhabitants of the former municipality of Schaijk have a "double orientation" on both Oss and Uden;]] [[noting that a survey in the Schaijk core showed that a majority of the inhabitants did not like joining Uden;]] [[noting that there was no referendum at the core of Reek on their administrative future;]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of these centres should be able to express their opinion on their administrative future;]] [[Whereas a review of Schaijk and possible association with Oss will be carried out in the two years following the reclassification;]] [[calls on the government, together with the local authorities, to carry out the evaluation in any event a public consultation among the inhabitants of the Schaijk and Reek cores,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35619-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u81	As has been said, the population must be able to express itself in all the cores and in all the participating municipalities, so I also have a motion for the entire future municipality of Maashorst. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan, Mr Van Strien and Mr Ton van Kesteren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inhabitants of the municipality of Uden were unable to express their views in a referendum on the reclassification to the new municipality of Maashorst;]] [[noting that the referendum held in Landerd Municipality in 2015 saw not specifically a merger with Uden, but on a larger number of options;]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of the municipalities involved in the reclassification should be able to express a direct opinion on the administrative future of their municipalities;]] [[calls on the government not to bring into force the draft law for the merger of the municipalities of Landerd and Uden until the inhabitants of the two municipalities concerned have been able to express their views on this reclassification in a referendum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35619-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u82	The next motion is about the Land of Cuijk. There too, citizens have not been able to express their views in a referendum in all the municipalities. That's why the next motion. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inhabitants of the municipalities of Boxmeer, Cuijk and Sint Anthonis were unable to express their views in a referendum on the reclassification to the new municipality of Land van Cuijk;]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of all the municipalities involved in the reclassification should be able to express a direct opinion on the administrative future of their municipalities;]] [[Whereas a referendum took place in the relevant municipalities of Mill and Sint Hubert and Grave;]] [[calls on the government not to bring into force the bill for the merger of the municipalities of Boxmeer, Cuijk, Mill and Sint Hubert, Sint Anthonis and Grave until the inhabitants of all the municipalities concerned have been able to decide on this reclassification in a referendum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35842-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u83	That might be more practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u84	Then let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u85	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the motion on the future intended municipality of Dijk and Waard. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inhabitants of the municipalities of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk were unable to express their views in a referendum on the reclassification to the new municipality of Dijk and Waard;]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of the municipalities involved in the reclassification should be able to express a direct opinion on the administrative future of their municipalities;]] [[calls on the government not to allow the bill for the merger of the municipalities of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk to enter into force as long as the inhabitants of all the municipalities concerned have not been able to vote on this reclassification in a referendum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35621-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u86	Thank you. I would also like to ask for the last three motions before the vote on the legislative proposals to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u87	It's been noted. Is that what you're doing at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u88	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u89	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u90	Actually, I have a technical question. There was already a discussion last time about the last explanation given. If this is Mr Van Hattem's approach, would it not be better in the motion to ask us as a Chamber to hold the vote on the legislative proposals until these referenda have taken place, rather than not let the law enter into force? Then we'll be able to monitor things with each other. Then we'll keep the proposals here, and when those referenda are held, we'll vote for or against, depending on what happened. Wouldn't that be better technically?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u91	That is a possible option, but we have the fact that today is the treatment. If the debate is closed here, we shall proceed to the vote. I have no indication that there is enough'support' here in the Senate, so I call it just a moment's notice to keep the legislative proposals. If that were the case, that would indeed be a possible solution, and then the motions are not necessary at the moment. So if there is support for that road, then that would also be fine for this moment. However, given that this is not yet the case, I think it is necessary at the moment to table the motions as a kind of hand brake towards the inhabitants of these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u92	In principle, the votes will of course take place next week, unless the Chamber decides to hold the votes. Of course, that can also apply to your motions, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u93	I'm asking for this, too. Suppose such a referendum is still held and it shows that the present law has the support of the population. Let's say that's the outcome of the referendum. Then we can all vote in favour without worry. But let's say that from that referendum comes that there's no support. Then the route of the novelle would be obvious, but I wonder. I ask Mr Van Hattem or perhaps the President. Can a novelle still take place between the vote in the First Chamber and the entry into force? It can't be, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u94	It is not clear to me whether Mr Van der Linden's question is addressed to the President or to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u95	I think the Minister can respond to that in her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u96	I believe that the last time we saw a similar one about Amsterdam and Weesp, we found that it should be technically possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u97	Let's put the question to the Minister. Once again, the vote is in principle next week and not this week. Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u98	With what Mr Van Hattem is saying, the discussion needs to be continued. I think I did not say last time, when this point was being played, that this should be technically possible. At that time, quite rightly, the President said that if we thought that the motion did not really fit in with the way in which we are holding the debate, we would not be able to discuss it at the time of the vote, but that it should then be discussed during the debate. Mr Van Hattem says it is technically possible. I'm gonna have to argue with that. What Mr Van Hattem is doing with these motions is that this was the last time he raised the issue of actually putting on the table a proposal which he himself wants to change the law on a fundamental point. You can, but then you have to change the law and so on. That does not really fit into this order of the debate anymore. If you look at it after the vote, it's totally weird. That is why I said something about this last time. But it's weird for that too. If you take the motion, the law will stop. If you don't take the motion, it's weird, too. So what exactly are we doing with each other? The proposal to stop the implementation of the law until there is a referendum that can undermine that law itself is simply a very strange motion. Mr Van Hattem should not pretend that this would be an appropriate motion. In my view, this is a totally inappropriate motion which does not take our work as a Chamber seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u99	The cabinet can always decide not to bring into force a law. There is the well-known example of legislation adopted by Minister Van Kemenade in the 1970s on middle school, which I believe never entered into force. This afternoon, I heard Mr Pijlman of D66 argue that the bill on the amendment of the House Act should not be ratified by the Cabinet as long as certain options remain to be changed. That is also what we are talking about in the legislative proposal. So it is not at all such a strange figure as Mr Ganzevoort now pretends.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u100	He's kind of a weird guy. You're against a law. It's possible. Then you should vote against it. But if you're trying to stop the law on which you're going to vote at the same time by a trick with a motion that wants to build in another step, that's a weird figure. We don't take ourselves seriously as First Chamber. We can have the debate on the law, but the trick with a motion on implementation, when we vote on it in the same vote, is just a strange figure. I know Mr Van Hattem as someone who not only knows the state-law tricks well, but also, above all, appreciates state-law purity. I would ask him to take that more seriously here. I believe that we, as a Chamber, should have the debate together on how we deal purely with motions. Then we'll just do our job better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u101	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u102	I think it's very pure of state law. We'll file a motion as a chamber. It calls on the cabinet to look at the extent of local support with referendums, with referendums, and only then to enter into force. Entry into force doesn't have to be stante pede. It's not a law that's gonna be introduced tomorrow. It doesn't come into effect until after a while. In the meantime, there is still the possibility of implementing that motion. It is therefore not impure under state law. As far as purity is concerned, we now have a legislative proposal which envisages an evaluation, at Uden and Landerd and at Dijk and Waard. There is, therefore, already a prospect that is also unclear. If we want to focus on how such an evaluation should ultimately turn out, then these motions will help to make it purer and thus also more purer by state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u103	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u104	Last time. The impurity is not in operation yet. The impurity is that Mr Van Hattem, with this motion, is asking for a referendum to be held that may have the sole purpose of not letting the law that we are about to adopt, if we vote in favour, enter into force. That's the impurity. In his motion he thus builds a counter element against the law. That's the impurity that matters to me. I do not think that such a motion should be voted on. If it does, we can only vote against it. It's just a nonsensical motion if you're going to pass a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u105	I'll do it a little bit more constructively. I have a text suggestion for the author. If instead of "calling on the government" we make it "calling on the Chamber not to vote on the bill for the merger, as long as the inhabitants have not voted on..." then we keep the direction in our own hands. If there has been a referendum, we can vote with a good feeling or say: the result is different, so we expect a novelle. Couldn't this put an end to the discussion, with something for everyone? It's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u106	That suggestion has just been made by Mr Van der Linden. In itself, that is a sensible suggestion. One doesn't have to rule out the other. Perhaps we still need to put a motion next to it, which also presents this option and then look at what the Chamber thinks is the most sensible way to proceed. However, if we merely postpone the vote on this matter, then perhaps we will also have a problem, which ultimately means that we will not be able to reach a decision. This is also partly a solution. I'm going along with it, but I'm not gonna say that I'm gonna change the motion that way. Perhaps in the second term there will be a second motion to set aside. I think that might be even more useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u107	I do not participate in this debate, but I do appreciate the fact that Mr Van Hattem misinterpreted my contribution to the debate on housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u108	In the debate on housing, I also referred to the fact that I would come back to this. At that time I did not hear Mr Pijlman. I also made it clear at that time that it was about... At that time, Mr Pijlman also spoke about not bringing into force until after a certain change in the legislation has taken place. So I see it as a similar process. I do not hear Mr Pijlman making it clear what would be so different now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u109	I do not believe that stopping the entry into force of a law is incorrect under state law. It's possible. However, as Mr Ganzevoort has already said, a proposal which, by means of a statement by the people, seeks to get the draft law to be changed in the end, i.e. to amend, is, in my view, a destructive proposal. I look at the state conscience that is present here now, namely the Registrar and all his people. I would ask the Registrar to whisper to the President at these times something that the President can help us as a Chamber. Every now and then we just have to say: this is not possible. I really don't think this is possible under state law. It's a destructive proposal. In the city council of Den Bosch, Den Bosch is only a small village in the region we are talking about today, among other things, I would have declared these kinds of amendments or motions destructive. Then it was done. It does not work that way or not yet, but I would like to ask the President whether we should continue to do so. Five proposals are now being made to return to the population, which has been consulted for years. Perhaps that did not happen adequately and not entirely to the point of saying that I have also said something about this, but the process is completely turned upside down if we now adopt this motion. I am not going to come back to it, because of course we are going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u110	I'm just gonna respond. The submission of the motion is sufficiently supported. The motion is therefore part of the debate. There has been sufficient support for the submission. Hands have been raised and the motion has also been signed. The motion is therefore part of the debate. It is up to the Chamber to vote for or against the motion. It is, of course, up to the Minister to give an appreciation. In the second term, it may also be up to Mr Van Hattem to come back to that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u111	I would like to respond to what Mr Rombouts has just said. Mr Rombouts speaks of a 'destructive' motion, but I think that is related to a certain degree of perception. The motion can as well be seen as a constructive motion. The question about such a reclassification, about the administrative future of their municipality, their community, their commune, can also work very constructively on the contrary. We saw in Grave and in Mill that the citizens voted for the reclassification. If that's the outcome, then maybe it's constructive for the bill. If the outcome is different, that is the opinion of the citizen, and that is, in a sense, also constructive for the future of administration. To be honest, I've never heard of declaring motions destructive. I think we would also have a big discussion if that were to happen at local level. I see it more as a political perception than a real constitutional problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u112	We should not make it crazier than it already is, because this is not constructive. This is the total turnaround of a process of years, by bringing something back to municipalities that has already passed through the municipal councils, something that has already passed through the province once and again, something that has already passed through the ministry and which has already passed through the Lower House. With any kind of common sense, you cannot call that constructive. That's destructive. I very much respect that this is a very useful way of debating things. You're doing great. But we shouldn't want that as an institution. Mr President, you said that the Minister was going to say something about this shortly and that the Chamber could say something about it. I called you to say something about it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u113	I have done so: the motion is sufficiently supported by the Chamber. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for the president to evaluate the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u114	Then we're back to watching the clock. Anyone can say that a motion is sufficiently supported and has five signatures. It is now a question of whether we are having a first chamber debate. Sometimes there are limits that I think you should not just leave to us to say something about. Please help us with that. I call upon you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u115	When this happened last time, Mr Kox said very wisely that in the CoS we need to talk about the way this is going. I say that we should indeed proceed with this as a motion at the moment, because procedurally it is now as it is. My question to you would be whether this has been discussed in the College of Seniors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u116	What exactly do you mean by "what's been discussed"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u117	The last time this happened, when Mr Van Hattem did the same trick, the same constitutional question was raised. Then Mr Kox said that we need to be clear at the moment and simply put the motion to the vote, but we need to talk in the Seniors' College about how we deal with these matters. My question is: did you talk about this in the College of Seniors?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u118	I don't remember a meeting like that at Seniors' College. I shall look briefly at Mr Kox himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u119	Sorry, I didn't hear. Hasn't it been discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u120	I don't remember a meeting like that. I am looking at Mr Kox, who was apparently speaking at the time. He doesn't remember either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u121	The votes will be next week. May I ask if the College of Seniors can speak on this before the votes? I think this is an important point, because it concerns the purity with which we as a Chamber deal with our meetings and motions. I was hoping the conversation would have been over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u122	Of course. You can also have it discussed in the College of Seniors through your group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u123	Mr President, we are not only here as a group, but also as a Chamber. As a chamber, it was said here last time that it would be good if this were discussed in the College of Seniors. I would be sorry if this had to be done only through the leader of the group. I think this is about the common question of how we act in a pure way. I have heard Mr Rombouts and others. If it is said here in the Chamber that this should be discussed in the College, then I hope that will happen. I am sorry if you refer me back to my group chairman. I would like to ask you whether you really want to raise this in the Seniors' College.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u124	I also said, "Fine." I was just saying that you can also bring it in through your group chairman, but of course I can do it through me. I'll be sure to bring it in, too. I expect others to do the same. But it can also be done through your group chairman, if you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u126	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u127	Perhaps I can say the following very briefly. We are now all talking about 'First Chamberable', etc., but it would only really be first Chamberable if we listened to the voice of the citizen and put the interests of the citizen first. That's first chamber. I understand that many Members of this Chamber are afraid of the citizens, and that is a pity. Be truly First Conservative and let the citizen decide in a referendum. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u128	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I would remind Members that the CoS is not about the time of the vote. That's what the Chamber itself is about. So that can be held any moment by the Chamber. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did not respond immediately to what Mr Ganzevoort said, but we did agree here that we would come back to this in the College of Seniors. The enormous urgency was not so clear at the time, but we see a whole series of motions being tabled that we need to talk about. But the answer is not yet easy to give on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. I agree with the President, because that does not say much about motions. It would be nice if we could talk about this in the short term, because we have to have the same standards when it comes to the debate here. Mr. Chairman. If we agree today to the present reclassification plans, the Netherlands will have nine smaller municipalities less and three larger municipalities more as of 1 January. The scale increase at local level goes on without an overall view of the modernisation of the Dutch administrative organisation. Something that this Chamber unanimously agreed with the government early on 4 December 2012 and which was promised by the then Prime Minister, who is still the incumbent Prime Minister of this country. Good work may take time, but being pregnant with such a vision for nine years is a very long wearing time. I pointed out this in a previous reclassification proposal. I ask the Minister again why we still do not have such an integral vision. This would make our lives much easier and make the future of local government in particular much more sustainable. What Mr Rombouts referred to in other countries should also be able to do with us: to make a plan and to deal with local democracy on the basis of it. Mr. Chairman. Now to the proposals now before us, which will wake up a small quarter of a million Dutch people on January 1st without moving into a new municipality. Langedijk and Heerhugowaard go together in Dijk and Waard with 85,000 inhabitants, Landerd and Uden in Maashorst, which include a small 60,000 inhabitants and Boxmeer, Cuijk, Sint Anthonis, Mill and Sint Hubert and Grave become Land of Cuijk, in which 80,000 inhabitants are housed. For many inhabitants, the reclassification seems to be a matter of little concern. This development has been facilitated by the scaling-up reduction of the Municipal Fund introduced by Rutte II. It was defended by Prime Minister Rutte at the time with the argument that "it was good to cut short, because then the municipalities would be encouraged to merge and the municipal reclassification would lead to less costs for the new municipalities." Another example is that this Prime Minister does not need a thoughtful plan to bring the desired goal closer. Bigger is cheaper, so be like this. That is how simple a liberal apparently thinks without vision. Mr. Chairman. For many, reclassification is something that happens to you, but for some it is an extremely painful matter that does not do justice to the local democracy and the individuality of their city or village. Earlier today, a group of troubled inhabitants from Schaijk stood here at the Binnenhof. They came to tell us their concerns once again, for which they are grateful. An additional reason why, in this debate today, we should at least pay close attention to the issue and consider whether the decision-making process can be described as sufficiently well-designed, democratic and sustainable. Mr. Chairman. Our group has shown, from discussions with many stakeholders, that I thank them for their efforts to inform us, that a lot of thought has been given in advance, perhaps with the exception of the last minute addition of the municipality of Grave to the new municipality of Land van Cuijk. After all, it only got its batter at the very last minute and must therefore be arranged through a novelle. Not the most graceful road, but apparently there was no other way. After a majority of the inhabitants of Grave chose to merge in March of this year, within a week their city council voted with dissolution and said the municipalities of Boxmeer, Cuijk, Mill and Sint Hubert and Sint Anthonis a week later against Grave: join them. After which, the Minister, in gang course, submitted a novelle on the bill already submitted to this Chamber to the House of Representatives, which said yes, so that the novelle can also be discussed with us today. Sometimes speeding up decision-making seems obvious. Mr. Chairman. The municipal councils concerned have examined whether what is called a "scale jump" in administrative language increases the administrative capacity, strategic capacity and administrative power, so that the interests of the population can be better guaranteed on balance. These are questions that are highly relevant, because the current municipalities are increasingly being asked for, while the necessary resources are seriously lagging behind due to too short-sighted government policy, which likes to dump matters and tasks on the fence of the municipalities without the corresponding money. For smaller municipalities in particular, what they are asked to do is often simply no longer to do. Getting together with other municipalities seems to be the only way out, but it has yet to be seen whether this is the case. My group also argued earlier that it can no longer be the case that the government leaves so many municipalities in the red, forcing them to make irresponsible cuts in local democracy and services. I would like to receive an update from the minister of her talks with the VNG about the financial starvation of the Dutch local government. I believe that a large part of this senate cannot tolerate this situation. The question is all the more relevant because the larger, but nevertheless limited, municipalities that we may decide on today are also faced with this. I would therefore like to hear an answer from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. For our group, it is important that the mergings now under discussion have been proposed by the relevant municipal councils, with the agreement of the Deputy States of North Brabant and North Holland. It's a good thing we're obviously done with reclassifications imposed on us from above. The SP has always resisted this, because this kind of reclassification causes serious damage to confidence in local and national politics. Local democracy must not be soldered. It is good that this is apparently being widely worn by now. May I ask the Minister to confirm that reshuffling from above has indeed been banned to the museum of failing policies? Mr. Chairman. In most of the municipalities we are talking about today, it has become clear that most of the inhabitants agree with the plans. The people's desire has been surveyed in several ways. That is not always clear, but at least the democratic process which my party considered necessary has taken place. However, reclassification does indeed hurt here and there. For example, part of the population of Koedijk and Sint Pancras would rather have found shelter in the neighbouring municipality of Alkmaar, and a part of the population of Schaijk and Reek preferred to be part of the neighbouring municipality of Oss. It is a good thing that the House of Representatives, with the support of thirteen political groups, was at that time that, in my opinion, everyone in the House of Representatives made sure that, because of these doubts in a part of the population, it will be checked in some time whether the intended result has been achieved, or whether it may be necessary to reconsider it. The new municipal council of Dijk and Waard will have to check whether the border correction with Alkmaar is still desirable. And the new municipality of Maashorst will have to examine with Oss whether Schaijk and Reek have found their place in the new merged municipality, or perhaps better fitting with Oss. With these interventions in the original decision-making process by the House of Representatives, some people understandably still do not remove the pain, but remain able to do so again. It is up to the municipalities concerned to take this opportunity seriously. The provinces concerned should also be vigilant on this point. Promise doesn't make sense. Can I ask the Minister to confirm that this is indeed a serious evaluation which could lead to a result that differs from what we are deciding here today? I therefore take a different view on this matter from the D66 Group, which also supported this evaluation in the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. The lifting and merging of municipalities is a major issue for some residents. Concern about the preservation of individuality, and the fear that large scale effectiveness is at the expense of small scale measures, are matters that rightly count. In addition, sentiment and historical awareness play an understandable role, at least according to my group. Take the towns and villages of Brabant that we decide today. For centuries they belonged to the Catholic German Freestates, before they were incorporated into what is now called the Netherlands. Inside they knew their own specific agricultural, industrial and cultural development. Partly because of that they also became very good political ground for my party, let me add. And in what is now called the Kop van Noord-Holland, in a grey past, the political control of free West Frisian farmers on Dutch graves like Floris V. Floris V used the tax he put in the Kop van Noord-Holland, again to finance the construction of the Kidderzaal, in which we now meet; it is but one know. For others dangerous marshland was gradually converted into productive agricultural land, where busy villages arose, with their own pride and their own characteristics. And today we are going to merge these villages with a neighbouring medium-sized city that once arose in what was "Lord Huygen Waert"; it has to be said only once for history. Let us make sure that in those three new municipalities, too, those old and recent history and the related sentiment are not forgotten, but proudly preserved. Without history, there is no future. Whether it will all fit well together medium-sized towns and small villages and cores over a large area in East Brabant and North Holland divided that remains to be seen. That is why we must take the concerns expressed extremely seriously, as the Minister said on the other side, in the preparation of this debate. It is very important to ensure that the new municipalities are actively pursuing a well-thought-out and democratic core policy, in which the individuality and history of the cores are secured and cherished, and that the greatest effectiveness is not at the expense of small-scale measures, but that the citizens of the new municipalities are ultimately better represented in the interests of the citizens of the new municipalities. The new municipalities bear a great responsibility for this. Take the new municipality of Land van Cuijk, which will soon become the largest municipality in the whole of Brabant with 324 square kilometres of area, with no less than 29 cores. To ensure coherence and individuality between them will be a very great responsibility for the new municipal councils, which will be elected this autumn. My group wishes all elected representatives in the three new municipalities every success and is currently looking forward to the Government's reply to our comments, and we are extremely interested in how the evaluations will take place in both the new municipality of Dijk and Waard and the new municipality of Maashorst, at least in the view of this minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-10.u130	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the debate until later today in the evening and suspend the sitting for a few moments.
