ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term on the part of the Chamber of the examination of the legislative proposal 35899, the Third Extension Act Twm covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Karakus on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. A lot has been said this morning. I am doing my best to resume where possible and will make an attempt to add new points as well. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, we had some optimism in this Chamber about the decline in corona figures. The vaccines combined with a period of strict measures were sufficient reason for the cabinet to radically relax the measures. The permanent end of the one-and-a-half-metre society seemed to be in sight. In the meantime, the optimism of the cabinet has given way to great concern. On November 19, 24,000 people had tested positive for the virus, the highest number since the beginning of the pandemic. As a result, care is once again under enormous pressure. Hospitals all over the country have sounded the alarm. The temporary measures should therefore now be extended for the third, and later for the fourth, time. That while the cabinet in press conferences last year was always very optimistic about an approaching future in which the coronavirus no longer plays a dominant role. Before we get there, we clearly have a long way to go. Should the cabinet not accept that the coronavirus is becoming part of our lives and should it not start preparing society for it, rather than always opting for new short-term measures? The PvdA Group understands that the course of a virus is difficult to predict, but doesn't understand why the cabinet always seems to pay attention to the short term. Even after the cabinet had to apologize earlier this year for the error of assessment made in the June relaxations, the cabinet does not seem to have changed course. The virus has well proven the need for a long-term approach. That is also what the PvdA Group has been calling for since the first extension of the Temporary Act and which has not received enough response from the government to this day. That is why the PvdA Group is once again asking whether the government is working on a long-term vision of how we are dealing with the virus and its possible successors over the next few months and perhaps years. The Temporary Law measures have never been introduced to be constantly extended. This law is finite and must be followed by an approach that is future-proof and does justice to the rights and freedoms of our citizens. The large number of different measures introduced by the government last year means that many citizens no longer understand the corona policy. The PvdA Group is very concerned about this. The declining concept leads to a further reduction in support for compliance with the rules and a reduction in compliance with the basic rules. But we need the cooperation of the inhabitants, the organisations and the entrepreneurs to ensure that the spread of the coronavirus is reduced and the pressure on care is reduced. How does the government intend to work towards renewed citizens' trust and in what way does the government think it can better guarantee the independent professional position of the OMT and the GGD? It is of the utmost importance that these organisations continue to be able to advise openly on the basis of their professionalism and independence. It is precisely this professionalism and independence that is increasingly being debated in the social debate. In previous debates on the extension of the corona laws, the PvdA has also stressed the importance of enforcing the laws. Indeed, the extent to which measures are effective depends largely on citizens' willingness to comply and enforcement. Although enforcement has often been called for, the government does not seem to have all its affairs in order on this point either. One example is the maintenance of the use of the CoronaCheck app. A study commissioned by the NOS showed that one of the three visits to catering establishments does not scan the QR code. Especially now that the government has announced its intention to extend the use of QR codes, we ask the government how it guarantees the integrity of the chosen system. Enforcement is not only a means of ensuring that people cannot get away with failing to follow the measures, it is also a means of ensuring that the citizens who follow the measures do not lose faith in the approach. We ask the Cabinet to come up with a credible plan for the enforcement of the measures. I'd like a commitment to that. Mr. Chairman. The new measures again require a lot of civil society organisations and entrepreneurs. This means that organisations are once again faced with less revenue. Like the corona measures, the aid packages have been reduced rapidly in recent months. To what extent are aid packages being rebuilt to prevent discharge waves, empty positions and bankruptcies? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Then perhaps the most pressing concern the PvdA Group has at the moment. Our group is deeply concerned about the growing division in our society. The chosen measures seem to polarise society: vaccinees against unvaccinated, 2G advocates against opponents. Society seems increasingly to be made up of groups that are directly opposed to each other, as the resistance to corona policy seems to be increasing. It is therefore still of the utmost importance that the public authorities should support the measures and understand each other. If the government acts erraticly, the usefulness and necessity of the measures cannot or does not clearly explain to the inhabitants, and the effects are not visible, this will encourage mistrust. How does the government reflect on its role in the growing polarization of our society? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I started my speech with attention to the concern, which is once again under enormous pressure. Care workers are the front soldiers of this pandemic. The long-term pressure that has been put on them over the last two years has made them overworked and overburdened the healthcare sector. This leads to problems everywhere in the care, especially when it is also necessary to scale up the number of ic-beds. At the end of October, the chairman of the professional association for nurses said that scaling up the ic capacity to 1,350 beds is impossible due to the lack of employable staff. This while the RIVM continues to warn that the current ic's will be full again in the coming months and will require scaling up. Can the government indicate how to raise the ic capacity without further burdening the care staff? This crisis once again makes it painfully clear that Dutch care is incredibly vulnerable and that investment is necessary. Can the Minister indicate when there will be an investment plan for care, starting with the ic? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the coming weeks, we will be discussing emergency legislation on the creation of new corona measures on several occasions. New measures will be added to the Temporary Act measures, a temporary law that is constantly being renewed without the government providing an insight into a strategy and a long-term package of measures. We hope that the government will finally change that after today. The PvdA Group will critically assess each proposal over the coming weeks and months for its effectiveness, enforcement and effectiveness. The measures must be necessary and enforceable and must be well explained to our citizens. Only if these conditions are met can the PvdA support new measures. Mr. Chairman. Right on time and I would like to hear a response from the government to my comments and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u5	I hear Mr Karakus of the PvdA saying that the law is constantly being extended and extended, while it is only a temporary law. The PvdA Group is quite right to object to this. There is an easy way out of getting rid of this continuous extension, and that is by voting against this bill. Then it will stop and the government will have to come up with a different vision and a policy strategy instead of constantly delaying it. Is it perhaps an idea for the PvdA to come along and vote against this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u6	We are very critical, but there is also a need, namely the virus. How do we deal with that? You can vote against a law, but with that, all measures lapse. Is that wise? We are quietly waiting for the Minister's answer to our questions. We do not see the rejection of this law at the moment as a solution to the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u7	But then the PvdA is equally complicit in extending the measures visionlessly, without a clear strategy and vision behind it, something the PvdA itself rightly asks for. Then it is a problem that is partly caused by the PvdA by keeping this law in the air all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u8	I find it too easy to pin all the things that go wrong on the PvdA. We ask the government what it will do. We have been calling for a permanent package of measures to combat the pandemic for a long time. That's a call I brought back in my speech. I hope that the Minister is now working to present a permanent package of measures that we can discuss with each other. We agree with you that the Temporary Law measures are not the solution to a permanent approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u9	But then the monkey comes out of the sleeve. The PvdA wants a permanent package of measures. Then we in Parliament can no longer say 'ho, now we stop, because this is crazy; these measures are really no longer necessary and the government can never stop'. Where is the emergency parliamentary brake if the PvdA is so keen to have a permanent package of measures, so that the Netherlands can no longer get rid of all these unnecessary and restrictive measures at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u10	Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u11	I would like to point out to Mr Van Hattem that the legislation and all measures go first to the House of Representatives and are then discussed here. We certainly have a say in this and, in my opinion, we have a say in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u12	I hear Mr Karakus saying: we are going to take a critical look at all the measures. I'm glad. That's our job, too. But I suppose he is aware that the Temporary Law measures make it impossible for the First Chamber to take a formal position. Even if we say by a majority that we do not agree with something, the ministerial arrangement can simply continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u13	That is a question that Mrs De Boer asked this morning. We are talking about a bill that expires on 1 December. What happens next if you reject this bill? I am curious to hear the Minister's answers to those questions. That's kind of interesting. On the other hand, apart from the legislative proposal and what we think, you need measures to combat the crisis, because that is what we are in the middle of. That's urgent. I ask the cabinet to talk about a permanent measure and to maintain what we are introducing. Let's look at the effects of that. Those are the questions I'm asking. I have finished with what we will review the next measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u14	A question from Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u15	Actually, I don't really get an answer to my question. My question is: is it not true that if the PvdA now agrees to an extension of the law, it also actually agrees to an extension of the amputation of the Upper Chamber? I can't hear you talking about that at all. Of course, we must be able to take measures. That's what you've been talking about. But it is a question of why the government did not come up with another design, in which the regular position of the Upper Chamber is also guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u16	Mr Nicolaï is right to ask questions about this. I agree with that. In fact, I would point out that it is desirable that we finally have a long-term vision of the cabinet, which includes what legislation and what measures are relevant to combat the pandemic. That is the question I asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u17	So you're in agreement. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Verkerk. He will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. I've been experiencing surrealism for the past week. I mention the many e-mails of troubled citizens, the frontal attack on democracy in the Lower House, the riots in Rotterdam, Stein, Urk and other places. All these events show what corona does to us, to us as citizens, to us as parliament and to us as society. In my contribution, I would like to focus on the future of corona policy. Here's what I'm gonna do. I shall begin with an analysis of the current debate. Then I'll outline a possible future. I conclude with a brief reflection on the present. Mr. Chairman. In the Corona debate I see two different stories. Maybe I should use Thomas Kuhn's word, which is paradigms. The first is the technological paradigm. It focuses on the management of the crisis. The OMT advises the government on the basis of the latest scientific insights. The cabinet makes political choices, takes measures and comes up with legislation. Press conferences and media campaigns inform the public. Citizens, businesses and civil society organisations are expected to comply faithfully with the measures. Together, we control Corona. However, this approach has also called for a counterparadigm. That's roughly told by two groups. On the one hand, citizens who believe that the government has a limited role to play in combating the crisis. They lay the responsibility for this on the individual citizen. On the other hand, there are citizens who believe that corona is a flu, that all measures are overtaken and that there is a conspiracy. If you look sharper at both paradigms, you can see that they are driven by different values. Technological paradigm focuses on caring for vulnerable citizens and public responsibility. In the counterparadigm everything is about the freedom and responsibility of the individual citizen. It is understandable that both paradigms and all these values collide. I also see that both groups are retreating into their own paradigm. They are not or hardly open to critical questions anymore and they no longer reach each other. Unconsciously, and sometimes unintentionally, they stir up polarization. Our group's question to the cabinet is: do you recognize these two paradigms? Do you recognize the dynamics behind this and the danger of increasing polarization? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the future of corona policy. The WRR and KNAW report Navigate and anticipate in uncertain times, of September 2021, outlines five scenarios. During the debate with the House of Representatives, Minister De Jonge stated, if I am correct, that he considers the two extremes, namely back to normal and the sausage case, less likely. He wants to prepare for the middle three, covid as flu plus, covid as an external threat and the ongoing struggle in which COOVID-19 remains a serious threat. Our group can agree with the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Our group also believes that these three scenarios invite us to challenge the self-evidentness of both paradigms. That comes out sharply when you smash both paradigms, excuse me for that. In black and white terms: the technological paradigm does not do justice to the responsibility of society and the counterparadigm does not do justice to the responsibility of the government. That is why I am looking for an alternative that does justice to the responsibility of the government and to that of society. In view of the background of both ministers, I would therefore like to draw on Catholic and Protestant traditions. Mr. Chairman. I would like to put the option of democratic paradigm on the table. I deliberately choose the word "democratic." It seems to me that it is important to consider the future of corona policy from the point of view of the rule of law and control of power. I think it is important to stress that democracy can only flourish if it is carried by society. I refer to the Remkes report. Mr. Chairman. I am working on this more concretely in three points. The first is that the government and the Minister of Health always have the responsibility to take charge. That fits with the Constitution and the Public Health Act. I choose the word "direction" on purpose. Those who take direction define policy frameworks and talk about framework conditions. But directing also leaves room. That brings me to my second point: local authorities also have an important responsibility. In this context, I would like to recall the Catholic principle of subsidiarity. I refer to the encyclical of Pope Pius XI from 1931. I checked it out for the minister. In concrete terms, this means that higher authorities do not have to do what local authorities themselves can do. Over the last year and a half, local authorities have focused on the defence, implementation and enforcement of policies. The question is whether, within the framework of government policy, there should be no more room for local authorities. After all, everyone realizes that there is a big difference between urban municipalities with high population density, low vaccination rates and many cultural activities and a rural community with low population density, high vaccination rates and hardly any cultural activity. Thirdly, there is also a responsibility for society. That fits well with the tradition of thinkers such as Abraham Kuyper and Herman Dooyeweerd, who drew society as a medley of different social connections. Every connection, such as circles of friends, families, educational institutions, companies, sports associations or churches, has its own purpose, its own character and its own value palette. In this context, I also refer to the advice of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau to explore whether more control and responsibility can be shifted towards social relationships. Mr. Chairman. In preparing this contribution, I have repeatedly wondered whether this is the right time to explore the future of the corona policy and put an alternative on the table. After all, we approach code black and then the space to think automatically becomes smaller. Nevertheless, I am putting it on the table, because I think we should prepare ourselves for the different scenarios outlined by the WRR and the Academy. I also put this alternative on the table, because it is in line with the main recommendations of the report. The report highlights, among other things, the use of a broad social resilience to shocks and the protection of the values of the democratic rule of law. I would like a response from the ministers. I would also like the undertaking that you will give an analysis of the alternative that our group is putting on the table if you give a more detailed response to this report. Mr. Chairman. I come to a reflection on the present. An honest question is: what is the meaning of the democratic paradigm for the current situation, in which code black is not unimaginable? Our group's statement is that we need the whole society to fight the corona virus. Why the democratic paradigm? First thing to do is stop the polarization. You can only do that in local dialogues. I'm not under the illusion that you can reach all the citizens with that. Nevertheless, the impact of local dialogues and local connections cannot and should not be underestimated. Even if it was just to show that the rule of law and democracy are still fully functioning. Why the democratic paradigm? Second, to also raise the vaccination rate. I'll tell you a story. A few weeks ago, I had a visitor. He used to work at the university. I'm still using the old term "social employment" for a while. I asked him, "Have you been vaccinated?" No, he answered, because I'm still waiting for a call. Later it appeared that he had difficulty reading and writing. This man was also escorted from the Wlz. At the service where he worked, the corona measures were closely observed. But my impression was that no one had asked him if he had been vaccinated, because he wanted to. My question is therefore: are all the municipal services and all the other facilities going to the very limit in the GDPR, of course, respecting the GDPR in order to increase the vaccination rate? I'd like a response from the Minister. We can go one step further. Does the municipality encourage dialogue in sports associations, companies, churches, etc. to increase vaccination rates? There are also a lot of local good examples that need to be shared and that can inspire us to have a good conversation with people. Why the democratic paradigm? Also to increase compliance. Let me give you another example. In our local church, I advised the church council on the corona policy. That's just about compliance. These conversations also lead to dialogues on responsibility and care for the other. That is the kind of conversation we need in all social contexts. Finally. Why the democratic paradigm? For local control and enforcement. I'll get back to you on this. Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks, we have seen a number of examples showing that the democratic paradigm is working. I'm thinking of the two Frisian villages Lippenhuizen and Oudega, who voluntarily went into lockdown after an outbreak. I am also thinking of the parents and the churches on Urk, who have performed de-escalatingly. That's why it works. It's about the power of local society. I would like a response from both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u19	I can also wait until the end of the speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u20	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u21	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u22	You're talking about Thomas Kuhn. I read his book The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. It very well explains a kind of sociological explanation for the following phenomenon. Everyone says the earth is flat. Then there's all kinds of clues that the earth isn't flat. And then the people who said that before will be condemned, because how could you have said something so stupid? And then the whole science and groupe goes around. Now we are almost in such a paradigm shift with the Corona approach, as you say yourself, because this policy is not working. I can also see a lot of moving insights in a lot of groups. What, then, does Mr Verkerk think is necessary in concrete terms in order to turn it into a policy which does bear fruit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u23	What Kuhn draws very nicely is that in those kinds of revolutions you have two parties that no longer listen to each other and are no longer in dialogue with each other. I have indicated that I also see two different votes, two paradigms, in the debate. I have shown the underlying values and said that I choose a paradigm that does justice to both the responsibility of society and that of the government. That is what I call the democratic paradigm, and I have worked it out. So I have an alternative or an adjustment or a development whatever you want to call it for current policy. I ask for the government's response to that alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u24	I have one more question for clarification. Then how would you like to operationalize that? In your view, what concrete steps should be taken to achieve that paradigm that you are in favour of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u25	A key element is that there is first of all direction from the government. That is also the responsibility of the Wpg et cetera. The second is that there is local space to make choices in dialogue with society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u26	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few brief comments on the current situation. Our group notes a certain optimism in the cabinet. Basically, I like that. But the cabinet regularly carries out more relaxations than the OMT proposes. Later on, the cabinet is surprised by the erratic course of the crisis. This concerns our group. It undermines government authority and it also undermines compliance with rules. The cabinet proposes to make 2G legally possible and to apply 3G more broadly. Our group recognises that, given the technological paradigm, these measures could work. Our group's question is whether these proposals will not stimulate polarisation further. Isn't that going to destroy the positive effect? Should we not opt for the least radical measures? That is why our group supports Mr Bikker's plea to examine the possibilities of 1G. This option is at least the least far-reaching in treating groups of people differently. I'd like a response from the government. Mr. Chairman. No system works if it is not complied with, monitored and maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u28	You will finish your speech before the interruption, because you are almost finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u29	This applies to 1G, 2G and 3G. It has often been said in this debate: there is not enough maintenance. You always find that in the media. My question to both ministers is: how can we achieve a breakthrough in enforcement? And when I say the word 'breakthrough', I do not mean that there is a 40% control instead of 33%. No, I mean a real breakthrough, a hit better, a factor better in enforcement. A factor in improving compliance and enforcement is needed. Our question to the Minister is: how are you going to do that? Mr. Chairman. I'll close with a personal note. More than a week ago, my church preached about Romans 13, and then the part where Paul tells his readers that the government is the servant of God. The preacher asked the question: how do you deal with the government? To find an answer to this question, he read a part of the Sermon on the Mount, in which Christ congratulates those who are meek and merciful and pursue justice and peace. His appeal was to deal with the government in this way. Mr. Chairman. I hope and pray that these values may determine the government's policy, that they may also determine the debate on the corona measures in parliament and that politicians are an example of that. That could reduce polarization. Our group looks forward to the Ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u31	Thank you, President, and thank you to Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union for his contribution. I've heard him say a few things that I wonder about, and then what? This applies in particular to the remark to ask the cabinet for an inquiry into 1G as a possible alternative to 2G and 3G. How far-reaching should that investigation be? Could it be sufficient, for example, for the cabinet to say: we have the 130th OMT report and there is something in it, so that investigation has been carried out? What will the Christian Union do? Does she still go in 2G, for example? Or does the Christian Union still reject that? What is the direction and the basis of that investigation? Could Mr Verkerk perhaps be a little more specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u32	I know that Mrs Bikker has been promised in the Lower House that the Minister will investigate the possibility of 1G. As far as I am concerned, we are still waiting for the results, and if they are there, then we will respond to the results and we will also consider whether that is sufficient or whether further action is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u33	Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u34	I thought there would indeed be an answer to the question I would like to ask. What exactly do you want picked out? What are you trying to do with this investigation? What is the objective? Asking for that investigation is one thing, but what's to come out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u35	I would like a reflection from the government on my suggestion of the democratic alternative, which will give much more room for local authorities and which will involve society, local society, much more in policy, compliance and enforcement. Our group believes that in a crisis à la corona you need the whole of society to fight that crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u36	Once, but 1G is a measure versus 3G or 2G. What difference does that research have to make? That's what I'm looking for: the core of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u37	I didn't ask the Minister how he's gonna do that investigation. I don't know if the Minister's gonna want to say anything about 1G research later. I am only aware of the Minister's commitment and I assume that this is simply a careful investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u38	Let's check it out first. I assume that Mr Verkerk does not mean 1G vaccinated, but tested. The G of "tested."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u39	1G is indeed "tested" here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u40	Where do you want to use the 1G measure and how wide? How wide should it be used to be effective? And how's that going with the feasibility? In the case of broad deployment, there will have to be an exceptionally large test capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u41	Yeah, I think that's exactly the points the minister's gonna investigate or he's gonna look at. It has also been indicated that the current test streets are close to their maximum capacity. Then the question is whether you should go to quick tests, yes or no. How are you gonna do that? Is a rapid increase in test capacity possible? First I wait quietly for the answer to those questions and that creates the space to think further about 2G or 3G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u42	I thought it was a very interesting argument. I was just wondering, and that is also my question to Mr Verkerk. You come with the democratic paradigm, but isn't that just the confessional state doctrine, let's just say, based on a high authority, the principle of subsidiarity that you should also be able to have your autonomy locally, and then civil society? What is particularly important to the Corona, as you can apply it to any policy area? That's my first question. My second question is: when you talk about that technological paradigm, when you say "we have to take care, and we have to take care of it," you can also develop these measures locally, and you can work them out in society. Do you have another paradigm, or are you just saying: in the paradigms I've discovered, could you deal with it differently, and that's my proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u43	Mr. Verkerk, please give me a concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u44	The fact that a particular doctrine is applicable in several areas is merely a compliment to the universality of that doctrine. There is indeed a part of my inspiration, but I have also been trained from organisational science in the tradition of participatory democracy. That's a more humanistic source. I think that is a very valuable source. When I see how much respect my colleagues speak about society, I get the impression that a lot of my colleagues could support this alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u45	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u46	And what is the answer to the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u47	Please repeat it. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u48	The second question was: is there actually a third paradigm that has to do with the covid problem, or are you simply applying a doctrine? The technological paradigm could also be applied to the direction, at the local level and in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u49	I first tried to outline some neutral both paradigms and do both as well as possible, to prevent polarisation from increasing. I found that they have different values and different targets. Partly from the traditions I have mentioned, I have tried to see if another approach, an alternative, is possible. I have worked out this alternative on a number of points. I would very much like to discuss this with the government and with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u50	Thank you. I'm really going to see the next speaker, Mr. Nicolaï. That was three turns for you in this interruption. Mr Frentrop on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The legislator must be careful. The supplemental affair taught us that once again. This covid policy has had a bad start in this respect. Granting the A status to covid has not been done carefully. The bill we are discussing today is designed to make it possible to react flexibly. The follow-up procedure implies that this Chamber must answer the question whether the government has dealt with this freedom of action properly. This means that today we are looking back at the last three months as well as looking forward to the fourth extension of the special powers requested by the government. Mr. Chairman. The legislator must be extra careful with the fundamental rights that protect citizens from the power of government. The most important fundamental right is the inviolability of one's own body. Suppressing mechanisms occur when the government tries to control your body. Then totalitarian threats play out. That's what I'm saying to the rabbi Tamarah Benima. She addressed this in her speech of Fryslan. She introduced the term "biopolitics" for that threat. Biopolitics occurs in organ donation, euthanasia, abortion and all issues that affect control of one's own body. Recently, this has also touched on the corona policy. So far, policy has been mainly a balancing of public health risks and associated economic costs. The biopolitical starting point of the House of Representatives was that vaccination is a free choice and that access requirements can only be imposed on limited non-essential activities. Now the government wants to move on. The Group of the Forum for Democracy is deeply concerned about this. To explain those concerns, I would like to quote a bit longer than usual. The quote reads as follows: "The Constitution, and its freedoms, requires a government to intervene in those freedoms only when it is necessary and only when it is effective and proportionate. The last year and a half were exceptional. Around March 2020, COVID-19 arrived in the Netherlands. Measures were necessary. But with everything we now know about the virus and the vaccination rate we have achieved, that point has passed as far as I am concerned. Most people who get covid have no minor complaints. About 85% of Dutch over 12 years of age have been fully vaccinated. (...) The broad introduction of the Corona Access Card is not only a practical issue about what laying down responsibilities means for entrepreneurs and their (often young) staff. Basically, the question arises as to whether it is still justified to do so with one of the highest levels of vaccination internationally, which has also been voluntary. As wise as it is to have you vaccinated, there will remain a group that does not want to. Convincing these people is an assignment. But more than that it should not be in the light of physical integrity and the virus that matters. The slow transition to a situation that you can only enter somewhere with a vaccination certificate or a recovery certificate (which expires after six months), the so-called 2G system, is unnecessary and not proportionate. Society is not makeable, a virus is certainly not. People belong together. Scaring people for each other by asking for tickets in all kinds of places is for me the axe at the root of living together." This is the end of this somewhat longer quote, which comes from the statement by former Secretary of State Mona Keijzer, who returned in September because she could no longer explain the corona policy, which we now have to justify afterwards. If I had more speaking time, I could quote the former VVD senator Heleen Dupuis, who spoke out against the core of the cabinet's corona strategy at the beginning of this year. She is an expert whom we respect. Biopolitics requires even greater care than ordinary politics, including in communication, which has already been discussed. Don't overdo it. You shouldn't point out scapegoats or otherwise turn people against each other. You have to leave out rhetorical tricks. You have to be even more honest about your intentions than usual. If you want to impose vaccination, say so and explain why. The Group of the Forum for Democracy does not have the confidence that the Minister for Health is following these recommendations. Mr. Chairman. Biopolitics is too dangerous to rely solely on medical advice. Medicine as a legislator does not provide for proper care, but for unacceptable deprivation of liberty. I have one more paragraph. Shall I do it again? We believe that, even in the current situation, every citizen should remain free to decide for himself whether he wants to be vaccinated and that the legislator should not make a distinction between people on the basis of their choice. The law is only there to keep people from evil, not to force people into a certain behavior. The burden of freedom is that you must convince the other of your right, not force it. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u52	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u53	I hear Mr Frentrop of the Forum for Democracy talking about fundamental rights and not turning people against each other. Well, your party and your party leader are working on it around the clock, right up to calls for tribunals, intimidating people...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u54	Mr. Otten, I don't want to hear that association with World War II in this house. We're not talking about tribunals here. That's a metaphorical association with World War II. That affects people in the country very much. That is the axe at the root of parliamentary democracy. We're not gonna do that here. I would therefore ask you to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u55	Mr President, at least you are doing a lot better than your colleague in the House of Representatives, and you are paying tribute to that. But I only ask Mr Frentrop, chairman of the Group of the Forum for Democracy in the First Chamber, whether he supports those statements made by his party leader in the Second Chamber. That is the question I have to ask Mr Frentrop. I think we have all followed the media and know exactly what we mean, I say to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u56	I was hoping we wouldn't catch each other flying here in the First Chamber, when we're talking about corona policy: do you agree with what he or she said? I would like to emphasise what I have said here today about corona policy. The essence is that the group and the entire party Forum for Democracy think that people themselves should have the freedom to decide what they inject into their bodies or not. That's what it's about. If you would like to know what I think of all the individual statements made by other people from the Forum for Democracy, I would like to explain this, but you have to say exactly which statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u57	I note that the Group Chairman of the Forum for Democracy does not renounce these disgusting practices. We have seen this loud and clear here, without calling into question the Second World War.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u58	Actually, I just have a practical question. You said the recovery certificate lasts six months, but I thought it had been scaled up to 12 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u59	That was in Mrs Keijzer's quote; that was a bit old.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u60	So it's 12 months. I'm gonna take a look at the minister, too. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u62	I would like to add my voice to the point made by Mr Otten, which has already been mentioned a few times this morning: the many e-mails we received. Mr Verkerk also spoke about this. There are also very unpleasant e-mails among them, including the sentences we will not talk about, but they do tell or announce to Members of the House that if they vote for this law, it will not end well with them. Can Mr Frentrop, as the Members who are here, imagine that this is pushing the debate in this Chamber in a very unpleasant way in a direction that should not be, namely polarization? I hope he won't be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u63	I am asked if I can imagine. I can imagine, but I also have hope. We are here in the Upper House, where the tone is still a bit higher than on other stages in the Netherlands. We're not sitting here with our backs to each other either. We're talking openly to each other here. I have tried to indicate what is important to us: the freedom of the individual. If you say that the tone is not elsewhere as we would like it to be, then I share that view. I've also tried to show you why. This is about something that is actually more important than all the subjects we normally discuss here during the year. This is about the integrity of the human body, the basic fundamental right. Even though I don't approve, I can understand people getting a little excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u64	I would ask Members in the Chamber not to hold the debate from the Chamber. People can't follow that, so it doesn't do justice to what you say. If there's anything you'd like to insert, do it at the interrupting microphone. Then everyone knows what's being said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u65	I understand it as if you are making a distinction: you understand that people in the country can react in this way. I would like to point out that people hear that in meeting rooms from your political party's predecessors. You operate under the same name: Forum. Couldn't something be done about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u66	Whether or not something can or should be done, I don't know. I also heard your colleague argue for dealing with fake news. I think this also fits in with what you are now saying about the way the debate is being conducted and whether you should do something about it. I'm always a little hesitant about that, because anyone here who pleads for dealing with fake news finds people by his side that I wouldn't want to find on my side. The biggest dictators, from China or Russia, all want to tackle fake news. Tackling fake news often leads to restricting freedom of speech. I am and the Forum for Democracy is a strong supporter of the virtually ultimate freedom of expression, and there are also a few limitations, and of convincing people on the basis of arguments. In order to do that, you need to hear other people's arguments, too. Even if you think they're wrong, you have to explain why they're wrong. But you shouldn't be forcing it and saying "that's fake news," "you have to distance yourself from that" or "that's not how we do it." You need to talk to people and listen to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u67	I shall try to conclude with hope, in the sense that Mr Frentrop quotes Mrs Mona Keijzer instead of his own party leadership. I think this is a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u68	I now know Mr Frentrop as a person who is not going to make that kind of statement. At least that's my expectation and also the certainty I'm about to have. But on the other hand, that statement has been made. It was done by your partymate. It would be a good thing for you to say: I called my colleague, my party colleague, and said that I do not agree with that. Did you talk to your colleague about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u69	What exactly are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u70	What was done in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u71	You'll have to be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u72	That which Mr Otten and Mr Backer rightly made a point of. My question is whether you spoke to your colleague. For thou shalt not deliver this judgment here: I expect it from thee. But on the other hand, that statement has been made and that has touched a lot of people. We also got a lot of emails about it. People are watching it now, too. So I'd like a reaction. Did you talk to your partymate about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u73	I regularly speak with the members of the House of Representatives, and I can assure Mr Karakus that all the issues are covered and that the Forum for Democracy party has a very free discussion culture, as you may imagine. So we tell each other what we find.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u74	So the answer is yes to Mr Backer's comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u75	On all subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u76	On all subjects. Then you called your partymate and indicated that you did not agree. Is that your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u77	No, it's not like that with us. We're just talking face to face at five feet away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u78	I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u79	Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u80	I know Mr Frentrop as a human being who is just right in the face. Did you call your colleague and address your party colleague on the statements that Mr Backer has rightly made here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u81	Everything that we consider important is openly addressed in the internal discussions within the Forum for Democracy. I don't want to give a glimpse of our conversations, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u82	I don't have an answer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u83	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. It seems like a tribunal to question Mr Frentrop about a party matter. That is actually my point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u84	Mr Van Hattem also applies to you: I do not want to hear that word here. That refers directly to the suffering that has been done to others in history. That was done at a time when parliamentary democracy no longer existed. And we don't want to go that way with each other, and we're not going to. I shall give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u85	I would like to make a comment on this, because I am concerned here with freedom of expression in this Chamber. I want to stay completely out of this discussion, but my point is this. If there is a taboo on a word that is misunderstood, where a single connotation is wrongly made with the Second World War while it is a word that is used in a much wider context, we have had, for example, the Cambodian Tribunal and the Yugoslav Tribunal in The Hague, I do not think it is appropriate that our freedom of expression should be curtailed in this Chamber. Hence my point of order that I do not want this to go unnoticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u86	I understand, Mr. Van Hattem. Well, then, I'd like to say something about it. By referring to war crimes, you give the impression that you no longer recognise the rule of law and that you are striving for a parallel state in which political opponents should be tried not so much as opposed. Then accusations of war crimes or references to them, as well as announcements of tribunals, should be seen as a promise of a final settlement. As long as I am chairman here, I will not tolerate any step in that direction. If you do not use that word, you can still make your point very well. I know you as a very good debater who is perfectly capable of doing so. I call upon you to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u87	If it helps, it's okay to use that word against me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u88	No. I'll give the floor to Mr. Van Hattem, because he was busy interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u89	Now it's being used in my direction, like I'm giving that connotation to it. I'm not. That wasn't my ruling. I am concerned that there should be an explanation of a certain word which restricts freedom of expression in this Chamber in this House and which the President now says in my direction 'you are fixing this context'. I don't want to say that about what I said. I just want to make a point of order about freedom of expression in this Chamber. There should be no taboo on a word. When a particular word is used in a particular context, it always depends on that context. I object to a context being attached to it in this way. That's my only point. I do not wish to be associated with a word in any way, when I myself did not use that word in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u90	I would also like to protest against the words that have just been used and which you have rightly distanced yourself from. In a normal parliamentary debate, we ask each other critical questions. That's what happened to Frentrop. I very much distance myself from the wording used by Mr Van Hattem for the critical questions raised by my colleagues. Thank you very much for doing so so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u91	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. And thank you, Mr. Frentrop. We're at the end of your input. I shall then give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u92	Mr. Chairman. When examining the draft Temporary Law measures covid-19 on 26 October 2020, more than a year ago, I called on the Minister of VWS to tackle the corona pandemic vigorously. This can be done by getting the tests in order, scaling up the care and convincing the public in a fair and transparent way of the need for the measures, I said in this Chamber last year during the examination of the emergency law for which we are discussing a third extension today. On 23 February of this year, eight months ago today, when we discussed the far too limited role of the First Chamber in this emergency law, an emergency law that violates the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch people, I said the following, I quote: "There must be a perspective for the population. A clearer communication from the cabinet to the people rather than constantly changing messages that undermine one's own cabinet policy. Our appeal to the cabinet is therefore to open up the Dutch people with clear communication to increase the effectiveness of the corona approach." That was February 23rd. So much for the "I told you so" comments from the past, which unfortunately all proved to have a great predictive value. This minister and this cabinet don't learn. This minister continues to repeat and repeat old mistakes. It is the minister of overpromise and underdeliver, the minister of absent planning and miserable timing, but also the minister of too little, too late and too much, too early. And also the minister who causes unnecessary discord in society. Mr President, let me clarify something. As I have always made clear, I am very much in favour of vaccination. I therefore call on all adult Dutch people to be vaccinated, should they not have done so yet. I myself have been double vaccinated, but by deliberately not following the instructions of Minister De Jonge. According to the Minister, my year, 1967, with a number of other years obliged to take the inferior Janssen vaccine. The fact that there were all kinds of objections to the Janssen vaccine was already clear in May, when this happened. I asked the Minister about this in May in the First Chamber and advised him to give people the freedom of choice to choose the vaccine of their own choice. I noticed back then that many people had a great preference for Pfizer. No way, it's pricking the pot, the minister said. Well, I thought the minister could go to hell. That's what a lot of people thought with me. So I waited until I could be pricked with the Pfizer vaccine in the summer. With Minister De Jonge you must always think carefully and especially not blindly follow his ill-thought advice and constantly changing sales talks, because you will regret that later. Ask those tens of thousands of young people who, at the end of June, followed the reckless, totally irresponsible "dancing with Janssen" advice from Minister Hugo de Jonge and were coughing and tasting in bed a few days later, resulting in a huge corona outbreak. While everyone could have told the minister that it would take two weeks for the Janssenprik to provide protection. These basic medical considerations were not an obstacle to the Minister's massive contamination of our youth. In every normal country, this minister had either resigned or deported the cabinet when stante pede. We therefore tabled a motion of censure against the Minister on 13 July 2021 calling for him to be replaced as soon as possible by a competent expert with knowledge of matters, who can restore public confidence and inform the public on an objective, scientific basis. But we didn't get a majority. The rest therefore wants to continue with this policy. Well, at least that's clear. For political reasons, the coalition continues to keep this minister out of control, but in society it has become quite different. Confidence in the policy has evaporated, even in the case of many vaccinees and many well-intentioned people who have followed all measures for one and a half years. On 14 September, the Prime Minister, standing alongside Minister De Jonge, said in his press conference: therefore, I am pleased that we can announce today that we can abolish the 1.5 metres as an obligation everywhere on Saturday 25 September. Well, here we go again, I thought: too much, too early; what are they doing now? And yes, by now we have daily contamination records and the hospitals are full again. This minister has now lost the trust of many people in society. But Chief Rutte doesn't make it a chefsache and thinks: let this punching ball minister take the hits for me and for the VVD. To top it all off, it was just a matter of time ago, and we are also dealing with a political party that is taking advantage of the corona crisis to implement an undermining agenda through far-reaching hits and the dissemination of incorrect information on social media. With the exception of a few courageous politicians, many people's representatives are anxious to avoid saying what is on, because they are afraid of intimidation and annoying videos. We are dealing here with seriously radicalised, undermining, even state-of-the-art figures working with criminals. As far as we're concerned, the DA's move is now. Our question to Minister Grapperhaus, who recently referred to these practices in the media as'sufferable', is therefore what he intends to do about this in concrete terms. As I said, the Dutch people have lost faith in this minister. The first thing that is needed now is another messenger, who can see the implications of policy choices and explain those measures, someone who has confidence in the people. As I said, we tabled a motion of censure in July calling for the Minister to be replaced. He didn't make it. That was in July. In the meantime, confidence has declined further and tensions in society have increased further. We note that many political parties in this Chamber are disconnected with society and still want to continue with this minister. That's why... I see there's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u93	Can Mr Otten also state what the message of this or the new minister should be to society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u94	Yeah, I'll get to that in a minute. That's a very good question, but I'll get right to that. To be specific, here's what I'm gonna do. Politics doesn't want to get involved, so we're not going against that in one more time. So we have come up with a constructive solution. This solution is in line with the statements made by a number of politicians with a medical background, including in this Chamber, and with suggestions from OMT members. Following on from countries such as the United Kingdom and Canada, we believe that a chief medical officer should now be appointed as soon as possible. That is an authoritative physician, who clearly explains with authority and confidence to the people what is going on and can reduce tensions. It is placed alongside the Minister of VWS and reports directly to the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. As you know, we would also like to take action immediately. That's why the next motion. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current VWS Minister has proven to be structurally and repeatedly incapable of adequately and proactively controlling the corona pandemic;]] [[noting that the corona policy of the Minister of VWS has proven to have failed and that a large part of the Dutch population no longer trusts this minister and is not inclined to follow his future advice;]] [[Whereas the loss of confidence in the Dutch population must now be rapidly regained and communication to the population must become consistent and clear;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint, in the shortest possible time, a Chief Medical Officer, following the example of countries such as the United Kingdom and Canada, who will report directly to the Prime Minister and who will be able to communicate the corona measures to the population in a trustworthy and clear manner and thus help to control social polarisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35899-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u95	Then I come to Mr Karakus' question on the specific opinions where, at least in our view, a number of... We do not, of course, make the policy, but we do have some ideas as to which direction it should take. One of the first things that I think is needed is that I notice throughout society, in all sections of the cabinet is a kind of knee-down with a recognition that it has really been mishandled. It is said once again: the people do not follow the rules; now we are all going to punish and so on. But people say: yes, hello, first say that you have done it wrong; do not blame us. So a first step towards restoring trust must be some kind of recognition that something has gone completely wrong here. Second. Acknowledging that there are no magic bullet solutions. At first the idea was: everyone a prick; then we are all happy and free again and we can do everything we want. In practice, it just turns out that it doesn't work that way, because it can still lead to infections. Use a palette of measures. I've compared it to a plane in the past: you need wings, engines, a tail and a pilot. Mr Van der Voort mentioned a mixing panel with different sliders, which you can turn harder and softer depending on. I thought that was an even better description. So make that mixing panel and use it. Do not abolish the measures if this is not yet possible. Third. Put more emphasis on behavior. Explain to people what they should and shouldn't do. For example, partying, yelling and singing with thousands of people in the Ziggo Dome is not exactly sensible, not even for vaccinees. What I understand is that two weeks ago, that led to a serious outbreak. So explain to people what is and is not dangerous behavior. Fourth. Organise special corona hospitals, where care for only corona patients can be concentrated, as in the past, for example, with tuberculosis or HIV. Take, for example, the hospital in Lelystad that went bankrupt. I think that's empty. Use an empty hospital and book the ic for corona patients. That can also be done at regional level. Roule nurses who work there and want to do it for six months at double salary, so that these people also get some extra money for it. Professor Armand Girbes of the Amsterdam Medical Center is already in the starting blocks to set all this up. I think we should not hide behind all kinds of polder excuses and say: difficult, difficult, support. Just do it. Take the lead. As far as we are concerned, that would be one of the opinions. We are also considering tabling a motion on this subject in the second term. So much for our advice to the Minister. It is clear that we have never voted in favour of this emergency law, because we do not consider it proportionate. So we do not want to go along with the extension of this law, even if it is almost like mustard after the meal. In short, I would like to give the Minister: corona is here to stay; deal with it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u96	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, Senator Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group. There's been an interruption. Interrupts are usually carried out by the spokesmen. I understand the VVD has been switched from spokesperson? I'm fine with it. I'd be happy to give you the floor. It is only highly unusual for other than the spokesmen to take part in the debate. I assume it has been discussed with your spokesman that you are speaking on behalf of your group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u97	Sorry for the confusion, Mr. Chairman. I just have one comment. I've already mentioned the idea of a chief medical officer. However, we are dealing with a very dangerous virus and a chief medical officer will not have an appropriate solution for that. I think the government has so far tried to help us get out of this situation with the corona virus, which is causing a huge pandemic. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u98	Thank you. That was the input on behalf of the VVD Group. I now turn to Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u99	Thank you, Mr President. As far as corona is concerned, there are no easy answers. My group understands that too. However, this does not mean that criticism of the policy pursued is by definition easy criticism. From the words of yesterday afternoon's Prime Minister and Minister De Jonge, we could easily see that we are going through a second Christmas in lockdown. We're now in the fourth wave of contagion. This means that there have already been three waves that we could have learned from. Instead of taking lessons, presenting roadmaps, scenarios and a vision for the future, the Minister plays panic football for the umpteenth time. As Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks quite rightly pointed out, yesterday he, together with the Prime Minister, gave the Dutch a defiance: remember, the stricter measures are your own fault! In doing so, they did no justice at all to the solidarity and solidarity which, unlike the noisy rioters and oppressors, the silent majority do not forget! In the last two years, the Dutch have acted to cope with this crisis. In this way, the Prime Minister and the Ministers have, in our view, eroded the basis rather than strengthened it further. My group is also deeply concerned about the temporary nature of the measures, the indicators on which the government bases the policy and the now almost normal, large-scale violation of fundamental rights. Our group now has the feeling that we have nothing to do with temporary measures. That depends on at least two things. Firstly, there seems to be a lack of a long-term vision. It is completely unclear how the government intends to get through in the coming months. The virus dictates the measures, the government is constantly reactive. Secondly, it is not clear exactly what the cabinet is responding to. What are the policy-driven indicators? Is it the infections, the hospitalizations, the occupied ic-beds, the distance to code black or the vaccination rate? What is the relationship between these indicators? Are they consistently applied? Is it dependent on the Minister's mood? Who knows? It's not clear. And that is extremely worrying, because it undermines the quality of the administration, because it undermines the confidence of the Dutch and because in fact it places us indefinitely with what is once meant as a temporary emergency law. This brings me to the issue of violations of fundamental rights. Everyone in this house knows that these violations are now widespread and far-reaching. In an acute crisis response, this can be justified, but only when all other options are exhausted. But that is not the case now. In our view, this has to do with two points. Firstly, the cabinet seems to rely almost exclusively on the OMT's opinions. Despite the expertise of the OMT members and their indispensable contribution at this time, for which our group also thanked, the approach to corona is not only a medical matter. Social and economic factors also play a role. And there are state-of-the-art considerations, including the protection of these fundamental rights. That must also be taken into account. It is precisely in this house that we should be critical about proportionality and subsidiarity of legislation. We think it is a very good start that Article 58j, first paragraph, of the Wpg is not being renewed. That's a start. That article concerns the possibility of setting a curfew. But we still wonder if the impact of this so-called temporary law is still proportional. Secondly, we cannot run away from the conclusion that a lack of direction and a systematic undressing of care by these and previous governments have brought us into this situation. For example, it is incomprehensible that roughly 200 ic-beds are now less available than just before the corona crisis. Also the dawdling with the third prick is a factor that now puts the cabinet with its hands in the hair. These are also reasons why we have been violating our fundamental rights for a year and a half. In Israel, they immediately switched when the contagion rates came up, where the third prick is already in everyone's arm. The Minister could and should have taken this step here, rather than prolonging heavy measures over and over again. That is why I ask the Minister, in conclusion and once again, to share a long-term vision with the Chamber. What is the long-term view on which the government bases its policy? Hopefully this will be followed by a substantive and thorough answer, otherwise we will be here next year, ladies and gentlemen, for yet another extension of the corona measures and perhaps look at another Christmas in lockdown. Finally, I would like to table a motion for a resolution. I will not read it completely for the sake of time. In this motion, the cabinet is asked to send the Chamber a summary showing during which period...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u100	Mrs. Nanninga, you must read the motion completely. Otherwise it will not be in the Acts and the people at home will not be able to follow it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u101	Then I'll read the motion all the way to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u102	Please, be my guest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u103	...but then I'll go through time. The: Mr Nanninga, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Berkhout and Mr Van Hattem proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is uncertainty as to when and how the cabinet steers which factors during the corona epidemic;]] [[Whereas the understanding of the purpose and functioning of measures requires clarification;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to send an overview to the Chamber for the Kerstreces indicating during which period the Cabinet sent to which factors as the main objective of the measures, which factors were contextual, how these factors were monitored and what the justification for this choice was,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35899-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u104	It's a bit of a complicated story, but you can still read it quietly. The bottom line is that we want to have that look back so that we can build a vision of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u105	Is the motion signed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u106	The motion is signed by four people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u107	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'll take a look at the rulers. Do they have 30 minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting until 3:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u108	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35899, the Third Extension Act Twm covid-19. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u109	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked, which I consider to be very important in my area. I shall reply immediately, and I would also like to say a few words about the situation in the field of public order that we are currently in. Mr. Chairman. We're in a democratic house here today. We are holding a good debate in the context of our proper rule of law, which, according to the Venice Committee at the beginning of October, can withstand a great deal of shock. That democratic house also includes the right to demonstrate. But what we have seen over the last few days, especially Friday in Rotterdam, was a demonstration as a cover for targeted violence. We've had to see some really nasty scenes there. I am very clear about it: as a cabinet, together with all democratic institutions, and as a society, of course, we must do everything we can to prevent polarisation. We must look carefully at those who have the most difficulty, whether they are people who are lonely or entrepreneurs. We must offer prospects to vulnerable groups, such as young people, especially in certain difficult neighbourhoods. But one thing is quite clear: there is a line. That is the line we are talking to each other; sometimes that is a bit of a strong conversation or a strong debate. But once it becomes intimidation or threat, it is simply criminal and something we no longer tolerate, especially when it turns into violence or targeted violence against aid workers, as we saw last Friday in Rotterdam. I've been talking to old firefighters who've been there for 25 or 30 years. They said they hadn't seen any rioters coming at them before. Why? Just because they were trying to prevent a fire from skipping two police cars on fire to a building where people lived. They said it went well on the edge. Because the firefighters had to retreat with danger for their own lives, the building in front of them was blackened and the windows jumped. With the protection of the ME they have, still at risk for their own lives, returned to work. I'm describing this in such detail because I really want to make it clear. I also heard a number of members of you say that we should have a good conversation. Of course we have to communicate well. We have to try to keep everyone involved in these nasty covid times. But nothing justifies violence, let alone targeted violence against our aid workers, as we saw on Friday, and in a sense this weekend. I therefore appreciate the fact that many of your Members, Mr Baay, Mr Otten, Mr Karakus, Mrs De Boer and Mr Verkerk, have also drawn attention to this. I say in this house once again out loud that we should be extremely grateful but also admire the policemen, the ambulance workers and the firefighters, because even without this targeted violence, it is sometimes very difficult to go into such situations as they were in a number of places last weekend. The same goes for our mayors. I have already vaguely said a few things about how to proceed with this. Since Thorbecke we have a system in our country with a system of decentralised responsibilities that works well. It's also become part of our DNA. We also saw other days than this weekend think of Leeuwarden, of Groningen, but also of smaller places like Roosendaal, the very firm performance of the mayors. However, in the meantime, the field of tension remains of unpopular measures, which have been taken and may still have to be taken. We do not know that, but what we ultimately have to go through as a society. Mr. Chairman. In reply to questions from Mrs Prins, I thought, but also to those from some other Members, I will look into what else we are going to do about this violence. How can we stop that? That question also came from Mrs Baay. I have said it before and written to the House of Representatives today: you can see that there are organized groups that act violently. The police have a pretty sharp picture of that, too. You can also see, as if it is a kind of fire that attracts more fire, that youngsters are coming at it, who, through some sort of copycat behavior, are also using the English word "excuse" more and more of that grosser violence. Mr. Chairman. On the news apps, I keep reading about fireworks, but they're just explosives. I believe that many people do not realize that it is illegal, whatever happens in that area, even if it were firecrackers. In November 2014 too, I should like to mention a date and a year.The use of fireworks would have been illegal, under any circumstances. And we're not even talking about fireworks, because here we're talking about dirty explosives being thrown at our people. I also had a detailed discussion with the mayors of the National Security Police Consultation this afternoon during the short break. We have also mentioned a number of things against each other. This will also be included in a letter sent to the House of Representatives, which I will ensure will also be sent to your Chamber. We must continue to ensure that the police are able to monitor properly, or perhaps even better, on social media, because these are really the places where things sometimes go badly wrong. Tackling stragglers preventively, was already successful in Utrecht a few times last summer. We should also look at the police toolbox. To what extent are there any other options that are likely to be there before we have to deploy the firearm? Once again, there will be an independent investigation from the state police into this deployment, but the police have indicated that there was a need for it. I'm gonna finish the list. Of course, this also involves a very good exchange between municipalities and regions in the field of good practices, also in the field of data exchange, which is very much needed. As you know, I am still talking to your Chamber about this under the Data Processing Partnerships Bill. Because here we see precisely the kind of things that really need to be done. Finally, and I say that very simply: solid detection. That's what's gonna happen. Quick justice. And when someone gets arrested later, they just end up in the mill. And finally, I'm gonna come up with some damage stories. I'm really getting to my last sentence. Mayor Jorritsma of Eindhoven told us this afternoon in a call that in Eindhoven 110 people were ultimately in court. You can remember those riots and assaults of January 24th. There were huge lootings there. In many cases, these people have compensated damages, in addition to conditional or unconditional custodial sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u110	I just want to get back to the fireworks. First of all, let me say that it is nice that the Minister responds from his own notes and we do not go through all kinds of folders. That's a nice thing to do in a debate. Let's go back to the fireworks. In my administrative past as a member of the Strategic Environment Chamber, I regularly discussed the issue of fireworks, especially what came in illegally, also through the post office. The problem with that was always that the Inspection Environment and Transport just couldn't handle it. My question to the Minister is very specific. As far as my group is concerned, it does not matter which ministry it comes from, but it is important to use sufficient capacity in the Inspection Environment and Transport so that we avoid as much of this misery as possible by taking it from the front. That was a bottleneck, and as far as I know, it's still a bottleneck. It doesn't matter from which ministry you do it, as long as the forces are combined to ensure that sufficient capacity can be developed for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u111	Of course, I can only speak for the police. The police have really invested in capacity. I will pass on the issue of ILT to IenW's colleague. May I also take this opportunity to thank your Chamber once again in this respect? You have adopted the bill that makes it possible to recover all the damage associated with storage and cleaning up illegal fireworks from the person it was found in. Damage stories work on the kind of things we've seen in Eindhoven. The next day, the police's trailer just shows up and takes your car away. Neighbors see that. That's really what we need to make people understand what happens when you think you need to move out of society by force.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u112	Thank you to the Minister for discussing the ILT, because that is really a crucial point. The Inspection Environment and Transport is also about intercepting shipments of fireworks coming in from abroad. They are not all picked up by car, but even come in by mail with all the dangers of that for the sorting centres. It's okay if there's a real bet. The minister says the police have already scaled up the capacity, but I think it's really a matter of joining forces. It is good if there is attention for the Inspection Environment and Transport, because during this period it is very difficult with all other tasks. It is precisely at this point that strength and people need to be strengthened, especially now that we see what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u113	When I drove here this morning, I heard on the radio early this morning that a lot of young people aged 15, 16 and 17 in particular were involved in the last riots and massive violent outbursts. I don't know if the minister has a picture of that yet. Just in front of my image, can any damage or damage be recovered from the parents of those children? Actually, they're just kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u114	Yeah, and I'm gonna tell you something even worse. I understand from the first report that in Leeuwarden it was even children aged 12, 13 and 14. By the way, they were extremely aggressive and violent. It is good to underline that here. I really understood from the mayor that the police didn't have to do anything, but they did draw the gun visibly. That was against the adults who were there, let's be clear. But we really need to realize that parents have a very hard responsibility here. We do need to report the damage on the legal representative. That is an important point, because it must be clearly visible not only to those involved, but also to the environment, that this cannot be without consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u115	Yeah, I'm surprised. I find it shocking to hear that 12- and 13-year-olds are also involved in this. Does the Minister also see any possibility of extra attention being paid to schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u116	Yes, but I have to say that has always been my point of view on illegal fireworks and idioticism around old and new ones that it is primarily up to parents to address their children on certain behavior. That's what it starts with. The same goes for those 12-, 13-, 14-year-olds, I want to be very clear about that. You just have to understand, if you're going to go over that line and commit violence... that's what I'm talking about, that's what I've made that distinction at the football games. I'm not talking about people throwing beer over you and stuff like that. That's also very annoying and it shouldn't be. But I'm really talking about young people who are violent and throw stones or explosives. Maybe they haven't been sufficiently informed about how dangerous that explosive is, but it's just forbidden and they're doing it. Then you cross a line. The same goes for those young people. Then you'll be in juvie, too. We saw that, too. Mayor Jorritsma has also described this in detail in connection with the situation in Eindhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u117	Of course, I agree with the Minister that clear lines must be drawn for everyone, let that be clear. At the same time, I fear that some of these children come from families wherever the question is whether they know the right lines and boundaries. From that perspective, alongside the hard line, which I certainly see, should not a two-track policy be pursued, to raise with parents in a different way, with youth work, so a little more the soft side, to let the soft and the hard side go hand in hand? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u118	I would not let them go hand in hand, because that leads to some conflicting situations. Once again, I am sure, as you know me, that we always have to look very preventively and that you must be very careful about young people who are in difficult situations, who may find little attention at home or who may have learning problems or other things. I also asked for and received extra money for this in the framework of the programme to prevent young people from going on a criminal road. But I say very emphatically that if people have crossed this line of severe violence, at some point the conversation cannot be held until the right has first spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u119	Of course, I agree. I am just glad to hear that we also need to look at how to ensure that this does not happen more often from a more preventive approach. That means investment on the other hand. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u120	Following on from Mrs Prins' questions, I would like to raise two questions. A: Isn't it true that juvenile criminal law, criminal law aimed at young people, is mainly focused on behavioural change and therefore on the soft side, besides the message how to stop this from happening? That's the essence of juvenile justice. B: I hear the Minister say that we must of course work on prevention, but I can only hear him say very general things, in order to prevent young people from getting into trouble in difficult families. What's the plan? What happens specifically when it comes to thinking about corona, to keeping the unrest that exists in society at this point, young people and their parents in mind and preventing it from becoming violent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u121	Mrs. De Boer is just pointing it out, that's all right. Of course, we see that Corona has a huge impact on young people, and especially on young people who already had more problematic conditions in their existence. Mrs De Boer may recall that in the spring of 2020, rather early in the corona crisis, Mayor Halsema and I said: let us let them, from the local authority and I, from the government, see if we can draw attention to this and be alert about it, and also whether we can make a programme with experts for how we can respond to it. Experts such as Hans Boutellier and Micha de Winter, well-known experts, have advised on this. Since then, the cabinet has also taken much more of the advice of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and other institutions into account not only in its weighting but also in its measures. We see what we can do to continue to care and actively take care of the youth. Those are ongoing programs. What I just mentioned to Mrs Prins is that we said a few years ago from the Ministry of Justice and Security, in the context of tackling undermining crime, that we must make a huge effort, including from our domain, to prevent crime in the neighbourhood. I think this is covered by the Justice budget, but these two are to some extent mixed up; you cannot see that completely apart. Last year, about this period, so November/December, the cabinet took specific measures that were intended to offer young people in the dark days in which they had very little distraction, a number of things, so life did not become completely unbearable. To provide prevention and perspective in the field of youth at this difficult time is therefore one thing. Another thing is that, quite frankly, we also see young people who have a much wider problem with these rioters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u122	It's still vague, I must say. I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify this in the progress reports. I hear that a lot of advice has been taken and we are committed to it. But what exactly happens is not clear to me from this answer. We do not need to focus the whole debate on that now, but I hope that the Minister will be able to give us more clarity in the progress reports on what is happening. What are these routes and projects that run in municipalities with the support of mayors? Maybe it's been said somewhere for a long time, but I can't do it to read everything, I'll admit it. So I'd appreciate it if you could give us a little more information on that. We have all talked today about preventing polarisation. Young people are also very important in this respect. I therefore hope that you will be able to give us more information on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u123	That is a very valid point. We also discussed it with each other in an earlier debate. I did not write a letter about this myself, but I believe that a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment came from my mind. I get the point. I would like to assure you that, somewhere in the next 14 days, a letter will be sent from the cabinet in which we will list all the things we are doing in this respect, i.e. to give young people more perspective in the corona period. 'Cause I get that very well. There Mrs De Boer has me a bit by the tail: I remain a bit in general about that. If you press the button, I'm going to tell you an hour about the prevention program at the Ministry of Justice and Security, but I see you can't find that button. I have to stay a little bit on the edge here, because this is SZW, but I admit that I am going to send it, because I really think this is a point where we have to sit in the front seat to take young people and not to punish them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u124	I hear complaints about vagueness, so perhaps I can make a small suggestion for a practicalisation. I hear all kinds of organizations and gremia passing by to which we can refer. Mind you, we're talking about children 12, 13 years old. It is precisely in order not to remain vague that I would very much like to look at the cabinet. Cabinet policy is still the primary objective: both father and mother enter the labour market as often as possible and education can be outsourced to outsiders or to child care. Isn't it time to give parents a little more space to shape their upbringing? 'Cause that's not something you're gonna throw in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u125	I think that's a little complicated. I think that parents know how to deal with a society that has been considerably accelerated in a number of ways but is also much more facilitated in a number of ways. We should not imagine that we had covid in the year 2000. At least I can remember that the video connection I had with my office abroad at the time came down to some kind of continuous snow and stuff like that. Those are all things that can help change parents' lives. On the other hand: I also hear from my own children that it is not too much of a joy. To a 2 year old boy you cannot constantly say: go there with your toys to work. Now that we have had this crisis since 2020, at least with inventiveness, we have managed to continue to fulfil everyone's role as best we can. Furthermore, in our society, we have developed into a model in which parents simply make their own arrangements about how to organise things with each other at home and abroad. However, I believe that the way you deal with standards and values is a basic principle that should initially come from the parents. It shouldn't matter if you're both working full-time. I can understand that very well, but those values and values must be given in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u126	I will keep it brief, because we can talk about this for a very long time to come. I found it interesting what the Minister said: how men and women deal with each other, they have to know for themselves. I note that government policy is very focused, especially fiscal, on: you will work, whether you like it or not. I really wonder if the cost picture is not more serious than what we gain from it, but that will undoubtedly come back in a different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u127	We are talking today about the extension of the Twm and the measures. I have to note that the measures in the Twm and the measures that have just been taken are excessively harsh for young people, as has also been demonstrated by recent research by the GGD, RIVM and the Trimbos Institute. So we are not just talking about young people who cause riots here, but we are generally talking about young people who are affected by the measures, which causes fear and loneliness. That is also the conclusion of those investigations. I would like a response from the Minister, in the sense of what the government is going to do about it. I hope that today's debate is not about the riots, but about the measures that have been taken and their consequences for young people, who are quite large. Research shows that the closure of the catering and arts and culture affects young people excessively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u128	What I find extremely complicated is that quite a few studies give a different picture of how much and where it has affected the youth. You can't hear me telling you one truth about that. It doesn't matter either, because as a government we have to ensure that everyone in society can continue to participate in a good way. In this context, I refer to the commitment I have just made to Mrs De Boer. In the letter that comes from the cabinet, I will explain what we are doing in a number of areas so that young people do not lose weight or drift off. I wanted to say "projects" first, but that also sounds so wrong. I will come back to my first point, because I did say something about these riots, because I also want to say very clearly here in your house that people crossing the border of violence really come under a different heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u129	Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u130	We're not having a discussion about that either. The young people who consciously participate in riots must be dealt with hard. There's no discussion about that. I am talking about a large group of young people who are being unduly affected by the consequences of the measures. That's the conclusion of those reports. Do I hear the Minister say that he is questioning the reports or their conclusions? Or do I hear the Minister say: I recognise the conclusions and I shall come back to them with measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u131	I said that I find it very complicated, and we are going to come up with the effectiveness of the curfew that reports are coming out in one direction and reports are going the other way. I think the sum total of everything is that we know that the corona measures intervene in our freedoms. As a society, we must ensure that young people suffer as little harm or disadvantage as possible in the future. That's what the Cabinet's bet is on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u132	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Raven, on behalf of OSF, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u133	With regard to 12-, 13- and 14-year-olds, I wonder if the Minister sees a role for Bureau Halt, which we have had for a long time. We have found that crime among young people has fallen as a result of the lick-on-piece policy. You do something and face your punishment immediately. Can that still play a role here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u134	I'm not gonna cross that line, because you're gonna get into the criminal domain. Besides, I think you have to pay for the cost of the damage you're causing. The latter is something that children often do not see. I'll call legal representatives on that. Mrs De Boer was right to say something about the criminal domain. There is an approach which is different from that of adult criminal law, let that be clear. But also with that other approach for minors, it is still true that you have gone over something, especially when it comes to violent violence. Because that's what we're talking about. We are not talking about young people committing vandalism or using small crime. We're really talking about brutality. That's a certain line of action. How that happens in the criminal domain is not up to me. That's up to the judge. That is where the regime applies as we have it for minors, as Mrs De Boer rightly said. How that resolves itself with a claim for damages, parents will have to realize.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u135	The damage claim will probably land with the parents, so the kids have less problems with that, I guess. They won't have to pay for that at 12, 13, 14 years old. We'll saddle the parents with that. This indeed creates a natural pressure on parents to act against their children. That is a good thing in itself. At the same time, we must try not to turn our young people into just criminals that we put in jail and so on. If you're out of line, you need to be punished. The lick-on-piece policy fitted in. My question to the Minister is once again: in the light of Bureau Halt, as it has worked so far and has had good results in the past, could we not apply it a little more strictly here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u136	You have heard me use the term "lick piece" in the last few days. That's threefold. One, we're gonna need a full search right away. I have just said that we find that the detection of social media, for example, needs to be facilitated even better. Two, where possible, it's quick justice. This will mainly concern adults. And the third is the damage stories. That's lick-on-piece policy. But I would like to emphasise that I am not talking about what happens next in the criminal justice chain, especially when it comes to young people. Of course we have things like Halt and other things that Mrs De Boer rightly pointed out. That's the soft hand. That's not up to me. But we must realise that we say to young people, whether they are 14 years old or 24 years old: if you commit violent acts of violence, you will get into that lick-on-piece policy of solid detection, possibly quick justice and compensation for damage. What mayor Jorritsma showed is that in some cases it even comes to juvenile detention, even though someone who commits terrible violence is 14 years old and there are no circumstances that go the way of Halt. I hate that, but that's how our system works at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u137	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u138	I'm not against the hard line. Let's get that straight. I think it is a good thing that young people cannot hide behind their parents, but are themselves confronted with what they have done. If they are used, mandatory in this case, as a young person you get a different feeling. I would ask the Minister to take another positive look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u139	We have systems like this, but it's up to the judge. It's really not up to me. I shouldn't be doing that. Mrs. Prins asked about the visible use of supervision and enforcement. It is a good thing that this point has been raised. I explain every time there's a triple. The first is compliance. That is what the OMT says: that does not work well in the Netherlands. People go out in 50% of the cases where they have complaints and could have covid, just get out of the house. They don't stick five feet away or stick to hygiene rules and all kinds of other things. The second is control. There is an important point. If you want to keep the company as open as possible with these corona tickets, as an institution or company you have to take the trouble to apply that control. We see that things are going well in a number of sectors, but not in a number of sectors, according to a number of studies. Especially when it comes to full control of QR code and ID. The QR code will still be checked, but perhaps the members will see for themselves what they are going through when they go to the cinema or the pub. I am talking about this control with the branches where we really need to do better, also to see how we can facilitate them further. You will no doubt know that I have already made EUR 45 million available for this purpose for three months. That money isn't up yet. I have therefore said that more can be done. I'll see how I can help them with that. I come to enforcement, the third point. Then I say very clearly, as I said last week in the House of Representatives: do not count on boas on every corner of the street. Of course, that's up to the municipalities themselves, but I'll just stand up for the mayors: you can't have boas on every corner of the street. You can't have them checked in all the bars. We just don't have the people for that, so we do that risk-oriented and random. Initially, when we started the corona admissions at the beginning of October, that was still very much used to. But in the meantime, companies are also closed down on a regular basis, because when working with mystery guests and so on it turns out that there is no control or far too little control. We really need to make a big deal out of that together. We will be working on these corona tickets, no matter what the measures are going to look like in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u140	I understand the Minister, of course, when he says that we cannot put a enforcer on every corner of the street. That's just really impossible. Let's talk about this control thing. For example, we all visit catering establishments. At one, it's all neatly controlled, but not at the other. I take responsibility as a citizen, and I say: I am not going in there. But it doesn't feel good if I can't get that message anywhere. You can say: then there are click lines and stuff. But I would actually like to ask: where can I get the message if I just see it? Mrs Prins mentioned an example of a company which does control, and which loses its business to the neighbour who does not control. Where can we, as responsible citizens, send such messages when we really see that there is no control anywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u141	Of course, it can always be reported, but I do not think that is the job of citizens. Because then you will also become quite vulnerable in this already a bit tense society. What I want is this. I am in good conversation with Koninklijke Horeca Nederland. I admit it was a little rough at first, but it's running now. I really think that sectors should join forces on this. The retail trade is an example of this. When I talk about this with the retail trade, the disappointment and bitterness there are no less than in other sectors, I can assure you. But then they say: we hate it, but we're going to see how we can do it. You might want to see if, as a sector, instead of a Michelin fork and knife, you should hang a Michelin mouth cap or something from your members, who say very clearly: both are checked here. Yeah, why not? I remember from the time in the beginning, in which we took all kinds of measures, that some hospitality entrepreneurs alerted us anonymously. They said we wouldn't dare, because we're getting a real audience that doesn't accept it. That was one and a half years ago, when other measures had to be taken. It sounds good, but I think that if we, as a society, want to bring about a significant increase in compliance here, this has to come from ourselves. Then entrepreneurs and sectors must say: we are going to stand for that too. I would like to support them even more. That's what I'm talking about. For example, we came up with that system of wristbands. Then in a busy center, like on the Grote Markt here in The Hague, with ten or twelve bars, you can get a wristband in one place. That's for the whole area of the Grand Place. We've worked with extra hosts and hosts who help with that control. We also have other methods for entrepreneurs. It is not just the hospitality industry; compliance with cinemas is really of a very worrying level. James Bond wouldn't want to go there himself. It's really important that you just say in those sectors: how are we going to solve this ourselves? Because that's when enforcement comes. I would like to emphasise something, so that there is no wrong impression. There is indeed a maintenance system, but that is risk-oriented. It is therefore maintained in areas where there is to be a lot of pressure or by entrepreneurs who, let me say, have said out loud that they are not participating or that they have a reputation for being rather sloppy. It is also carried out on a random basis. In itself, that works well, but well: we don't have them on every corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u142	There's quite a traffic jam behind you, Mrs. De Bruijn. Do you mind if we move on to Mr. Karakus?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u143	From the Minister's answer, I at least deduce that I could send an e-mail to the local hospitality association for this sort of thing. That may indeed be a tip that is a little more neutral, in order to finally deliver the message.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u144	We've indicated how important this is to us. If you're gonna take action, it's gonna have to be enforceable. Enforcement must be in order, because it contributes to effectiveness and understanding. Does the Minister agree? That is the first question. Secondly, I asked for a concrete plan of action on how to organise enforcement. I'm not just talking about extra boas or anything. Enforcement can also be that you free up resources and train the volunteers to do so. That could also be part of your plan. Specifically, does the Minister agree with our position? The second is: is there going to be a plan of action on how enforcement is going to be put in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u145	The complicated thing is that we have two factors that don't make this a... how do I say.. linear function, an easy line in the graph. One factor, of course, is that the virus doesn't really follow the rules of the game. It's kind of the type that constantly moves the goalposts and stuff during a game of football. That's tricky. A second thing is this. I have already said something about what some of your Members have rightly expressed concerns about. We see, of course, that quite a part of the population is now quite... How do I put it? Of course, the tension is sometimes very high. That makes it very difficult to really come up with a general statement on what exactly should be effective. Let me give you an example. There are times when there is criticism of how communication takes place. This also has to do with the fact that, sometimes within two months, or within a month, the measures change quite suddenly again. It's hard to let that get through to the public every time. Let me now turn to the enforcement plan. As you know, I have a weekly meeting with the Security Council. I'll be back on the Thorbecke model. There are a few things at the heart of this. From the Security Council we formulate what extra is needed to have control and enforcement at a good level and how you are going to do it best. This is also different from one region to another. You saw that on the 11th of the 11th. That's a good example. I think that's the intro of carnival. You notice I'm from above the rivers, so I'm not very much at home. The safety regions have reacted very differently to this. The security region of Brabant-Noord has said: we are going to do it, but we are going to do it with a deposed area in the center and with corona tickets. The other one, I think it was Limburg-North, said: we are not doing it. The third one's doing this again. This also has to do with their own interpretation at some point in time in those regions. Of course, I saw the same during the first few months of the virus, in 2020, when the border regions had very different policies than in the Netherlands, but then there were also differences between the border regions. I'm trying to synchronize the handles for enforcement policy as much as possible, but you always keep some peculiarities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u146	All in all, this was long enough for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u147	That's right, Mr. Chairman. My only question is this. It is an important point for us. We want to be convinced that the measures we are taking are enforceable and that we are also doing everything we can to ensure that enforcement is in order. We do not yet have that conviction. Will and can the Minister convince us that he's doing a lot of work on that? So that could be a plan or a letter stating what he's doing. There must also be the conviction of what the Minister is going to do, because this is a very important point for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u148	I refer you to a number of letters on this subject that I sent to the House of Representatives from the beginning of October to report on the progress of implementation of the corona access certificates in the three-stroke compliance, control, enforcement. The first battle is compliance. With very good communication, you have to tell people what it is, how it works, how to do it: now make sure you have your things ready when you get to that restaurant. That's the first part. The second part is control and the third is enforcement. I have said what the standards are: risk-oriented, sample-based. All this must be in an enforcement framework. I'd be happy to send that to your room. I will. Then Mr Karakus sees that we have really thought this through with each other. The tricky point is in the middle, in the control. Of course, you can always punish companies for not doing it well or not doing it well, but if we want to move forward, they have to get on with it themselves. That is why I said that I am talking to those sectors. I have just mentioned a few examples to see how the people are going to do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u149	Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u150	Finally, Mr President, it is clear to me that at least the Minister is sending the frameworks to us. But it is important, I repeat, that it is not just about punishment. The importance of an approach may also be to provide you with good information on what it is important to do. That could also be part of a plan. You can indeed train the volunteers in how to control them. That could also be part of the plan. My specific question is this: will the Minister clarify these aspects? What are the possibilities, and what can and what does the Minister want to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u151	I will make sure that your Chamber receives the few letters that have been sent to the House of Representatives along with the enforcement framework. That makes it easier, because then Mr Karakus will see that we are actually working on this, very concretely, and that we are also trying to take account of the differences between regions; the latter is also complicated. But I come back to the jumping point, and that is that, in the end, there has to be the will of the entrepreneurs to put energy into it. I can put so many hosts aside, or wristbands, but that entrepreneur must also say: yes, I'm going to bet on it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u152	You are making some progress on the basis of the interruptions, I think, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u153	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I've really run out of 60 pages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u154	Look at this. Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u155	We have a whole polonaise of interruptions, I'd say, to stay in the atmosphere of 11-11. That's exactly what my point is about. We saw in different cities that it was celebrated there. Also my own municipality,'s-Hertogenbosch, has rightly decided to allow the Oeteldonkse 11-11 to continue, with the difference that in other cities the catering industry was simply open. The pubs could not be closed there, while in Den Bosch it was decided to set fences, have access controls applied with QR codes, with wristbands and with access tickets. Does the Minister consider the application of such a system in this context of added value and safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u156	If you do the three strokes right, so if you put down cow letters: people, pay attention! If you do that at the entrance of Den Bosch, I believe that Jack Mikkers has done really well, and if you then put the control at the entrances of the center well, if you take care of all that well, that goes well too. This also happens in Alkmaar, Breda and The Hague. Then you will still have that the enforcers occasionally check on a sample or risk-oriented basis to see if things are going well. I honestly say that the directors of our administrative scheme in the Netherlands, within the limits of the law, in this case the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and the measures based on it, are free to see how they can work best. In Alkmaar, I think the mayor, Mrs Schouten, started it. A lot of others noticed that the wristband system is a great system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u157	In itself, it is fine as the mayor has arranged, but my point is precisely how the effectiveness of the corona tickets applies here. I have just been informed that the number of infections in Den Bosch has increased explosively since the 11th of the 11th, given the incubation period, also compared to similar cities where the 11th of the 11th was also celebrated and where the pubs were simply open in a normal way. Isn't there the implicit risk in the system of corona tickets that many people think: I have my QR code, I am fully vaccinated, so I don't have to pay attention anymore; even though I have a cough or a flu, I can just go in there? Isn't this a system that works counterproductively for supposed safety, and with that it is a false safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u158	I don't know. We will soon have to see how this has happened in the various regions. I say to you very emphatically: I cannot at this time say from one or the other what has now worked better to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. But you can see there are different things. Again, such a wristband system works therefore I stress that if you still do that three stroke. The wristband says, okay, you have your QR code, but you still have to follow the rules. So you still have to observe within that area the 1.5 meter distance, you still have to observe the hygiene measures within that area and all the other things. As a municipality, as we agreed in the enforcement framework, you still have to maintain risk-oriented and sample-based.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u159	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u160	That's just the system's malfunction. If people are in that area and they have that wristband and that QR code, it's a foot and a half pass. It was precisely the intention of these corona tickets that people could go to events and so on. Isn't this the system of corona access cards a system that works counter-productively for security and thereby creates hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u161	No. You're right, within the area, the 1.5 meter distance is not the issue. That's absolutely true. But what matters to me is that you still have to do that I think the complicated thing about this kind of thing is to do all three: respect, control and enforce. We'll see what the results are in the different cities. Today is the 23rd, so in two days it will be the 25th. Around that day we will see what the results are in the different cities. Then we're gonna see how that worked out. Of course, there may also have been all kinds of circumstances that influence it in a different way. So I'm very careful. I am not an epidemiologist, even though I have been allowed to take a lot of statistics every Sunday for a year and a half. But I think we really, I say with emphasis, make the observations and conclusions at the RIVM and the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u162	Mr Verkerk, on behalf of GroenLinks. Restoration: on behalf of the Christian Union. It's so far apart, how could I make that mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u163	Mr President, at least we have a lot in common with GroenLinks in terms of thought, so I also think it is wonderful that you are making that mistake. I would like to thank the Minister for investing a great deal of time in dialogues with the sector. I believe in that, too. In my contribution, I have said that a breakthrough is needed in this whole process of compliance, control and enforcement, because it is simply too low. All the experts are convinced of that. My question to the Minister is this: does his current policy lead to a breakthrough on this trip? Are additional measures, investments, human resources or do I need what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u164	We did get an unambiguous observation from the RIVM. International comparisons show that in countries with the same package the number of infections is much lower. This is mainly due to a higher level of compliance with basic non-compulsory measures, such as hand washing, keeping 1.5 metres away and staying at home in case of complaints. I find it difficult to say, because I am one myself, but with Dutch people there is a point there, as well as that we in the Netherlands have a very big debate, perhaps in other countries too. I heard one of your members was wondering if we shouldn't be in talk shows more often. Apart from the fact that the number of viewers is falling dramatically, as a member of the cabinet, I do not know whether it will add much to the citizens' clarity if we have any more discussion there. But I go back to Mr Verkerk's question. Of course we have to raise this. You have heard me say that we really need to find that in the respect of the people themselves. That requires a lot of communication and control. Yesterday, you heard the Prime Minister and the Minister of the United States say that these measures could well go a long way, but that they would have to be respected much more, otherwise we would have to slip. Before you know it, some of the people misread it, when all they've said is that we all have to get to work. Then winter could still be quite bearable. As regards control, which I have just discussed with Mr Karakus, Mrs De Bruijn and some other Members, I am talking to the sectors about how we can move forward in a smart way. I think it's really good that after a few nights of groaning on the first weekend and a half ago, the catering industry is now saying: okay, it's terrible, but let's see how we can fix this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u165	I hear very good things again. I mean that from the bottom of my heart. Some things you can control, some things you can't control: washing hands and what people do privately aren't, but some other things do. I would like to ask this question: does the Minister's policy at the points you can control, for example in the train, the catering industry and the retail trade, lead to a breakthrough throughout the three-stroke? I would like that question to remain here and I will come back to it in the second term. I would like to come back to that in the future too, because this is so essential. We're just gonna walk into a lockdown, you know that as well as I do. This wasn't a question, it was a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u167	I have two more topics. One. Mrs Prins rightly calls for attention to polarisation and how to deal with it. I can say two things about that. I indicated this afternoon that the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security is working on a common perspective of action for all local authorities in terms of combating and adjusting radicalisation and polarisation as much as possible. There is already a lot of bundled expertise. The Social Stability Expertise Unit, the ESS, is involved in the Ministry of SZW. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has what they call it Omo. There's really nothing I can do about that abbreviation. That's the Support Network social unrest. I participate in this myself, as well as officials from our department and, above all, mayors. This was created at the end of last year as a result of the polarisation which then became very clearly visible in the run-up to old and new, as you may remember. Then there is a broad expert group of social unrest, including the national police, the VNG, the NCTV and the ministries mentioned above. So we really look at this from a variety of angles and the NCTV is often the puller, and then we take it to very concrete action perspectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u168	Mr. Nicolaï. Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u169	I welcome the various expert groups. At the same time, the question is: what does that mean? Talking is one thing, consulting, researching, but what are the steps that we should take, that society, but also the government, should take, to make sure that we get a little more unity? Does that result from activities or plans? Does that have a vision? What can we see of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u170	This certainly results in activities. You can also derive this from, for example, the threat image that is announced every six months by the NCTV. You can also see it in the approach with which departments, together with municipalities, face these kinds of threats of polarisation, so to speak, in a good way. Again, following what we have seen over the last few days, there is now a proposal for a common perspective of action, so that it can be put everywhere as much as possible, with perhaps some local variations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u171	Can I understand from that that we can also have an overview and insight into it, so that we can get a sense of what is being done, on the hard side and on the soft side I still think both traces are important to ensure that there is more unity, that the dividing lines become less than what is currently visible in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u172	That needs to be established with the local authorities, the state's attorney's office and the police. I think we're really giving that priority first. I hope Mrs. Prince understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u173	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u174	I fully understand the order. That does not alter the fact that you could make a commitment that we would get that overview, albeit in the order you have just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u175	We need to see. That's why I'm a little reluctant about that. You also heard me being rather reluctant when journalists asked me to mention the names of organisations and groups and so on. We need to let that depend on how NCTV and police intend to set it up together with the municipalities. But it is clear, as Mrs Prins also knows me, that we will really report on what we can report on it as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u176	Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u177	You have the hard and the soft approach. I think that our group fully agrees with Mrs Prins that we should, above all, keep an eye on this soft approach. I also heard the Minister talk about steps being taken in the spirit of the tough approach. If we look at large-scale violence and what has indeed happened in Rotterdam, then the question really arises as to what the Minister's prospects are on the basis of the documents he has at his disposal. Is that gonna happen more often? The polarization is increasing. If we get back into a hard lockdown later, it might get worse. Soccer's gone. The hormones are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u178	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u179	What are the prospects? Any sign of that yet? Would the Minister also be willing to inform our Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u180	What the prospects are is very difficult to say. I can't bring out a crystal ball. Mr Nicolaï is right to talk about hormones, or whatever you want to call them. It is, of course, true that covid has created certain subcutaneous tensions in people and groups. That's what you saw last summer, by the way. At that time that it was just a bit quieter, there were also things that were sometimes quite extreme. I find it hard to say whether all this can be traced back to covid. I have discussed in detail with the KNVB the fact that two or three times as many stadium bans as in previous years have been imposed. There have been many more incidents there than in previous years. Of this my department and the union jointly concluded that these covid hormones, which need to come loose, should play a role in this. The most important thing is that the police, the prosecutors, the services and everyone else are keen on it, which is in the picture and acts on it. Then you can have it again that it wasn't completely in the picture and that you might be surprised. Not long after the nightclubs in January and February I was with you in the Chamber. That was three, four nights. You can also see that communities don't accept it, which is also important, and that was emphasised today by one of the mayors from the south. That was also very typical in Rotterdam last year. Not only the mayor of Rotterdam but also the people from the district just didn't accept that people from their neighborhood were going to smash things up in the city and plunder them. These are, of course, the things that we love most in the end, that the community itself turns against them and says: this should not happen. It shouldn't all come from the authority and the hard hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u181	Just for the record, because we are starting to run a lot late and the context of the extension law is gradually widening. Of course, you're free to do that, but I'm gonna take a look at the schedule. I was gonna meet with the Chamber, and we're gonna start dinner break around 5:45. The combined covid meeting doesn't start until 15 minutes after that break. Even if we start a little later you have fifteen minutes to get to the Lange Voorhout. In any case, this pause is an hour and a half in connection with a number of other committee meetings that are taking place, if you can agree to it. Mr. Karakus, any more questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u182	I had asked if the government would reflect on its role in the growing polarization. Do I get an answer from this minister or Minister De Jonge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u183	I see Minister De Jonge enthusiastically nodding yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u184	From Minister De Jonge, I understand, but frankly I find that a rather difficult question, I say in advance. Then we are going to review ourselves here today, when this phenomenon has been going on for a number of years, even before this covid crisis, I say to Mr Karakus. Because of the extra tension of covid, this has only gained more flywheel, as I just discussed with Mr Nicolaï, through you, Mr President. I'd like to make that point, though, that it's hard to review yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u185	I asked the Minister another question. What does he intend to do about the intimidating and very undermining activities of a number of colleagues in the Lower House, inside and outside the Chamber? I won't repeat the T-word, but there are also contacts with criminals, which I get from them. Don't you think it's time we started doing something about that from the ministry and the state attorney's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u186	First of all, as a spectator, as a sitting participant, I appreciated the way you picked up the point earlier today as a Chamber. I think that's how it's supposed to work in a democracy. We have a separation of powers. I think it is up to the Chambers to discuss with each other what we think can be said in a house of democracy, what fits and what does not. It's not up to the cabinet to say anything about that. Secondly, whether certain cases are punishable is indeed the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor. If and insofar as the Public Prosecutor's Office does not take a position there or takes a position that is not acceptable to a person, he may initiate proceedings under Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that resolves itself along that road. And if and as far as it is addressed to members of the cabinet, it is indeed up to the cabinet to go into that and we will certainly do so at that time. Furthermore, I can only say that anyone of you who feels threatened or intimidated by others should simply report it to the police in the context of a report. Because you all have an important, responsible and also public function. Whether that happens on social media or otherwise, and by anyone else, it is simply a matter of a rule of law that you report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u187	This point is not on the agenda, by the way. We are talking about an extension of a covid law. I'd like to give you the floor again, Mr. Otten, but this point is really out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u188	I would like to know why Mr Wilders was prosecuted by the prosecution and not in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u189	Then you must address yourself outside this Chamber to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u190	That's up to the D.A.'s office, which isn't represented here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u191	But you're the boss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u192	No, I'm not the boss. I'm okay with it all, but now we're gonna get the kind of statements the cabinet says we don't accept. Unfortunately, this is often the case with Mr Otten. He has also made all kinds of false, unsubstantiated claims about civil servants here. It also applies to this remark. Anyone who has studied state law a little knows that we have a separation of powers. The Public Prosecutor's Office is autonomous in his prosecution policy. And again, if the D.A. doesn't take on a politician I'm taking on myself properly, you can go to the Attorney General of the Supreme Court. Otherwise, there is a procedure under Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This person, the Minister of Justice and Security, has nothing to say about that. That's good, because that's what we call a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u193	By the way, the subject is outside the scope of this debate, so I shall close it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u194	I do not know if it is entirely a point of order, but it strikes me that the Minister raises a great many points on which questions have not been asked so much. They are all interesting statements and they also call for reaction and many interpretations from this Chamber. I welcome that for the debate, if not for the fact that we have also asked a lot of very specific questions, including the legal aspects of the extension and what would happen if we did so after the deadline. I am therefore a little curious as to whether the Minister is also entitled to answer specific questions of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u195	Mr President, I have really only answered the questions that have been asked. They went that is to your Chamber, also to Mrs De Boer about things like "what do you do with the riots, what do you do with the youth?" and so on. It's all good, and I understand that's gonna take a long time. I now have one more question to answer about curfew. At least it was about ten, but I just wanted to sum them all up. I'm not here to think of subjects. It's the room itself. Mr. Chairman. Then the curfew. We're not getting those tickets back. In reply to Mr Van Hattem's question, the OMT explained in its 96th opinion why and on the basis of which studies an effect of the curfew was expected from about 9% to 10%. On the last page of the 111th opinion, the OMT has just said as it is, because I am also a reader of one doctor's statement that there have been as many recordings as before, so the curfew has had no effect. By the way, the OMT said: you just have to figure this out and can't be based on recordings. The OMT later said on request: the English variant has a much higher level of infection, of 30%, 40%, something like that. I see the only expert nodding here. This means that, if the number of infections remains the same and does not rise, you have apparently taken measures that have had a dampening effect. That's what the OMT said; I'm not saying that. They're investigating it right now and coming back to it. Finally, Mr President, and then I will be there. We're not just gonna reset a curfew. This has been made clear by the VWS colleague a number of times before. That is, in the end, a rather heavy competence, and we really must leave it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u196	That last point, "not just set up," I think is a little hook to maybe do it. Then I would like to hear from the Minister in which authority this might be discussed and on what basis. Secondly, I asked for that research by the RIVM. RIVM had announced an investigation, and that's not the OMT report. The Minister's gonna come back to that? Okay, I'll wait for that answer. Let's start with the other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u197	The RIVM investigation is ongoing. And it'll take a little longer, I understand. There are no concrete results yet. This is also because RIVM currently has a number of other priorities in this area. I didn't mean "not just like that," of course, not "a little "just like that." I mean that curfew must be very necessary in order to reduce contamination and must, of course, be based on all the principles that have been used earlier, namely proportionality and subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u198	Do I understand correctly that this requires a separate legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u199	Of course, there is still the power under the Wbbbg. It's sensitive, but it's just there. We have discussed this before, because a lower court had said that it was not okay, and according to some of your members I was skating on a skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating. Afterwards, in appeal, a few days later, it turned out that I had very firm ice under my feet. I would like to point out to Mr Van Hattem that last year the curfew was the last or last resort that we took back. So it must be pretty far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u200	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u201	In any case, let me be clear: it is a measure which has proved to be ineffective. It is an unprecedentedly heavy medicine that can be used both during the day and in the evening. On the basis of state emergency law, it is not limited to the evening. The investigation is under way, I hear from the Minister now. Apparently, it's been running since April. When can we expect about the results? Is there any insight into that? Can the Minister promise that as soon as the results are available, they will also be sent to both Chambers without delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u202	As soon as the cabinet has the results, we will, of course, if the curfew comes back into view, ensure that those results are achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u203	Thank you. Mr Karakus with another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u204	I would like to give an example to the Minister to make it clear that enforcement is also connected with communication. On your site it says: adults keep 1.5 meters away from each other unless they live at one address. Period. How are you gonna maintain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u205	Well, we're not gonna get behind the front door. Here the rule is well explained. Behind the front door we can't maintain and I'm not going to see the police go to the people behind the front door and see if they do wash their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u206	I'm sorry, but it's not about the situation behind the front door. It's about sticking to that 1.5 meter distance at any location where it's necessary, with the exception of the corona pass. There is the exception: unless they live at one address. If I read this like this as a supervisor or enforcer, this is as follows. Two people walk at the station and if they show that they live at one address, they can be within five feet of each other. How are you gonna maintain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u207	But that's always been the case. I do agree with Mr. Karakus that it is sometimes incredibly complicated to do this kind of thing right. We ask many of the citizens and we ask many of the enforcers in this regard, but this is not a unique point. This isn't new.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u208	I suggest that we now proceed to a conclusion, Minister. Did I get that correctly? Yes. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, who will at least have 5.50 p.m. until 5:45 p.m., to begin answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u209	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u210	We would like to see the Minister of VenJ back at the beginning of the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u211	Thank you, Mr President. I'm afraid it's not gonna work out this piece of shit for dinner break. We can see how far we can get. We have this debate at a complicated stage of the crisis approach. The objective of the crisis approach is, of course, still valid and has remained unchanged: to protect vulnerable people and to protect them from overload. That is very difficult at this stage. We see that the rack is out in society. We see that the rack is out in the care. We also see that this virus has not only sickening powers, but also polarizing powers. That means that we have to relate to that. That applies to the Cabinet, but so does your Chamber. You have touched on many things that are very worthwhile to discuss tonight. I want to do the answer as follows. First of all, I would like to answer all the questions that have been asked about the extension of the Twm, the actual item on the agenda. Then there are the questions about the strategy and the long term; there are quite a lot of them. Then there are the questions about today's measures and about the choices that have been made. Then there are the measures that will be taken in the near future, particularly with regard to the corona ticket. Then questions about the scaling up of the care, followed by questions about the vaccination and then I have a block of motions. That's how I wanted to classify my answer. First of all, the questions concerning the Twm, the extension of the temporary law. All in line with the motions of De Boer and Janssen, the decisive control of the law is regulated. This means that an approval law will be dealt with after the royal decree has been struck. I understand that your Chamber would have preferred this debate much sooner. The smoothness of treatment in the Lower House also plays a part in the Upper House. Can't we do that a lot sooner? That is the question that Mr Janssen is asking. Yes, of course. The treatment in the Lower House could have been faster. If the department or I can contribute to that, I'd be happy to say so. Could you also beat the KB a lot sooner so that the approval law is made sooner? This does not relate very well to the proportionality requirement as set out in the Twm, namely: you will have to argue again with each extension why the measures you wish to retain in the legal toolbox are still considered proportionate at that time. This means that for each KB extension, an opinion is first requested from RIVM. The extension KB is then submitted to the Council of State for advice. The proportionality test should be done in the light of the epidemiological context. If you were to do that much earlier, you wouldn't know at all what epidemiologic star it is for the extension. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het tweede wat ons denk ik parten speelt in de snelheid der dingen, is dat de wet drie maanden geldt en elke drie maanden moet worden verlengd.]] That was not necessarily the intention of the cabinet. As you know, the temporary law initially had a term of one year, which the Cabinet had made six months of it on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, and the Chamber then made three months of it. I have sometimes said that if the First Chamber could have said something about that at the time, it might have been a month and a half. Three months has been a very short period. Yeah, that's gonna sign up. We published today the QB of the fourth extension. So that also means that the extension decisions are very close to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u212	Thanks, but if we look at the situation right now, here's what we see. The Minister has publicly announced that he considers it likely that there will also be a fifth extension. On 2 November, the Minister said that this fourth extension must be made. And today, on the 23rd, we're getting into the approval law of the KB. Then my question is: did you decide on 2 November that the fourth extension you announced should be made without sufficient justification? Or was the justification so far around that the homework had actually been done at that time and that the KB, the approval decision and the opinion of the Council of State could have been followed more quickly? I cannot imagine the Minister announcing an extension without making sure that it is also proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u213	Sure, you should. The extension decision was adopted on 22 November. That is the extension decision published today, which has been served today. That extension decision has a detailed justification for the continuation of that article per article. Without delay, this is the task of the law: without delay, the approval law will be submitted. It will be submitted to the House of Representatives today or tomorrow. I hope that the House of Representatives will deal with them without delay. This means that we will be coming to speak about this in the Upper Chamber as soon as possible. However, it is a very detailed argumentary continuation of the current legal provisions, which is set out in the fourth extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u214	The answer goes by my question. My question was: had the Minister already considered all the arguments and proportionality on 2 November, three weeks ago, when he announced that the fourth extension would be necessary? If that were the case, the KB and the approval law could have come sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u215	In my view, it was not very difficult on 2 November to predict that there would be such a need for the extension. That is also the context in which I said: it is quite plausible to assume that there will be another extension. But sure as hell you don't, and you always do it in the context of that moment. Nevertheless, you have every time, every time you renew an extension, that is the requirement of proportionality as it is stated in the law to argue that the articles in question will also prove necessary. We carry out that process very carefully with each extension, and that means that we cannot send that approval law to the Chamber very far in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u216	Mr. Janssen, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u217	It is the third, and for the third time I am asking the same question: was the Minister already convinced on 2 November that all the arguments and proportionality were available to ensure that the fourth had to be brought about? Because then the KB could have been beaten sooner. That very detailed documentation, the very detailed justification and justification could have been completed at that time. Otherwise, on 2 November, the Minister said that there was a need for an extension without justification. If that motivation had been there, this KB could have just been beaten sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u218	I believe that on 2 November I expressed myself in such a way that it was logical to assume that there would be a fourth extension, and that it was logical to assume that a fifth might follow after that fourth. That is how I expressed myself, but that is without prejudice to the fact that you will have to take the proportionality test for each article of the Treaty. This means that you will have to justify this on the basis of an OMT opinion, and then submit it to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u219	Following on from Mr Janssen's question, I took up your letter to us today. This shows that, on 1 November, an opinion was requested from the Council of State on the KB extension. So, in reply to Mr Janssen's question, the reasons for the various measures were known. And on November 10th, the Council of State advised. So the question is: why didn't on 11 November that KB could have been struck and then the approval law could have been filed immediately? The Council of State's opinion was there. Say you need two more days to process that advice, why couldn't the next steps have been taken on 13 November?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u220	Excuse me, but this calls for a look back at the last few weeks to see what exactly was stowed on what day. It seems to me that the department has had a high level of production on everything, for example when it comes to the extension decision or legislation. We'll do it as soon as possible. Mr Janssen's question was: can this be done much earlier? At least that's how I interpreted the question. Look, a day or a week earlier will be possible. But can something be very much sooner? Of this, I say that this is not in keeping with the proportionality requirement of the law, because you will always have to do the argument in the context of that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u221	I get that. I do not want to sit on one or two days, but we are talking about a period of about ten days. The opinion of the Council of State was delivered on 11 November. I think that 23 November is a good time for something which has already been considered and which, according to the Council of State, needs to be changed only in the explanatory statement. I understand you're saying we can't do this one and a half months in advance. But if you're assuming the way it's been, so just say November 1st, KB, I'm thinking, a month in advance, fine. The OMT opinion was then weighed up and the explanatory statement was given. Then it was sent to the Council of State. It'll take ten days. Maybe they can do that three days faster. Then it would be as nice as three weeks, but at least a week or two, before that extension has to go into, the approval law is there. Then I have no illusion that this is going to be all over Parliament in two weeks, but I think anything we can do to speed it up could happen anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u222	Let me put it this way. From what you have said, you understand that we cannot refer the contested decision to the Council of State much earlier than a month in advance. We have tried to submit a decision to the Council of State before, almost pro forma. At that time, I think it was right to cut it down, which was then about the 1.5 metres, because the decision was premature and it could not be argued in the context of the epidemiological situation of that moment. I think a month is a real deadline. Can we act faster in that month? I think that Mrs De Boer is right to say that there could be more speed in this. I myself thought I would see more room in answering the questions from the House of Representatives. Mrs De Boer says: you can actually take a little more space before that, by publishing the KB earlier and immediately following up on the extension law. I could explain that very well over the past month against the background of all the legislative production that has been carried out from the VWS ministry. By the way, I would have preferred not to, but it just turned out to be necessary. I think it is a legitimate task to look into the future to see if we can act more quickly in that regard. Then there is Mrs De Boer's next question. I was looking forward to that answer myself. Imagine that approval bill being voted down today. Then what happens? If it were to happen today, it would be before December 1st. Then the entire Twm would come to an end today. If that happens after 1 December, the period is actually processed. Then that has no more power of expression over that period. This means that the fourth extension is simply the next moment on which we can actually vote and which actually has a legal effect. I understand from our lawyer that the eventuality Mrs De Boer brought up must be seen as such. Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman asks: is this toolbox now optimally furnished? I think that there is room for the measures we need to take for now. I think that we would really like to come to a different instrument in the future, especially for the coming winter period, at least because the current instruments were created at a time when we had not yet reached a vaccination rate. We still had very little protection from the virus. You could say that these were also rather crude measures to take. You would like to be able to take measures there with much more precision towards the near future. The cabinet has submitted a number of legislative proposals for this purpose. These concern in particular the broadening of the scope of the corona access tickets and the 2G execution mode of the corona access tickets. I would like to answer the questions in a moment. But I hope we can add those tools to our toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u223	I would like to come back to the explanation of the extension law and the moments of vote on it. I think I just heard the Minister say: if this law is rejected, it can be re-voted under the fourth extension law. In my view, the overall basis of the Public Health Act will lapse if the third extension law is rejected. In my view, then, the basis of that fourth extension law is also gone. It can then not even be submitted or in force. How does the Minister view that explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u224	That is true when it comes to a vote that will take place before 1 December. A vote taken after 1 December shall cease to apply until 1 December. From that moment on, the Twm will become the fourth extension, for which the KB extension has already been approved. The explanation is therefore correct in so far as the vote takes place before 1 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u225	However, if the vote on the third extension takes place after 1 December and the fourth extension is already in force, I believe that the fourth extension of the KB will automatically lapse if the third extension is voted down. That's what I want to know for the sake of clarity and clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u226	No, it's not. That was the question and we figured it out. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u227	Can the Minister provide further evidence as to why this is not the case? In my opinion, the basis of the Public Health Act falls.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u228	No, you could say that the period has been processed if the vote takes place after 1 December. As a result, the fourth KB extension has already entered into force. A decision on the third KB extension cannot affect a law which has now entered into its fourth extension. That's the explanation. Mr. Chairman. That actually brings me to a question that is a bit of a bridge, namely whether this is also the future legal instruments. Is this how we're gonna keep doing it? That was a question that affected many groups. I think it might have been the most perplexing question of this debate. How do we look at that longer term? Mr Verkerk has devoted a very thorough vision of society to this. I'll be happy to deal with that later. All the groups have asked questions about it: what does this mean for the longer term? The CDA Group, the VVD Group, the GroenLinks Group and, in fact, all the other groups. In order to explain this correctly, I have to go back to the moment of 14 September. Indeed, we have had some really new stages in the approach. These phases are always marked by the way we relate to the virus. An important marking point was in mid-September. That was the moment when everyone had the chance to protect themselves by vaccination. Everyone would have had the chance at that time to protect themselves, plus those two weeks on the clock. By doing so, you can say that anyone who wanted to be vaccinated was protected from serious infection, but at all well protected from infection. I'll be right back to the effectiveness of the vaccines. That marked a new way of dealing with the virus. We're still at that stage, actually. As Mr Verkerk rightly says, this brings with it a different relationship between government and society. After all, the people who wanted that protection could have been protected. That also means that as a government you relate in a different way to the use of the measures. At that time, however, we did point out that some things were going to happen, because a very large group still had to build up protection. I remember saying in the press conference, which I also heard my German colleague say yesterday: it will be inevitable that anyone who has not been vaccinated will be vaccinated at any time, or will build immunity by going through the infection. That's the uncomfortable truth. The key question in mid-September was not whether it was going to happen, but to what extent it was going to happen and how quickly it was going to happen. What we see now is that it is happening too quickly, so in too short a time. That's why the pressure on care has increased so much. I'll get to that in the next block. That marked a different phase. That's one. That's the mid-September phase. When is the next phase due? If the 1.5 million people we know have not yet built up enough immunity, have been vaccinated or have experienced the virus, then if that primary immunity has been built up among the population. That is a moment when we are going back to a new phase. When that's exact, it's hard to say. But it's not strange at all to assume that many experts are doing so..... that many people are going to be vaccinated this winter period, or still building immunity by going through the infection. Again, what we are seeing now is that in too short a time too many people get sick. As regards the longer-term strategy, the Academy and the WRR outlined a number of long-term scenarios at the beginning of September. Five scenarios. It is not the case that we could choose from that. No, the virus chooses us. We just don't know what exactly the virus has in store for us yet. But the virus chooses us. We need to adapt our approach to this. That will be after the stage in which we have built up immunity. In the autumn approach, so from mid-September onwards, we have outlined that there are three scenarios that you can take into account. The WRR sketches five scenarios, but they are still very similar. A scenario in which you quickly enter an endemic situation. And a disaster scenario in which you have to deal with a breakthrough mutation or an escape mutant, who is very little interested in the protection you have built up at that time. But the most likely scenario for this winter period, given that some 1.5 million people have not built up sufficient protection, would be a scenario of revival. How fast, that's hard to say. But that you will still have to act, the experts say that they also said mid-September... is very obvious. On this basis, we have adopted our approach for the autumn, in which we have identified a number of levels of risk and we have also set limit values related to the number of hospitalisations. We have indicated, per limit value, when we could achieve fewer measures, but also what limit value we would have to deal with more measures. That's what happened. That's how it happened. At the time we exceeded the limit of the highest level of risk, we took the measures to bring the virus back below that limit. What we are looking at now is that I am going to come to that in the next block of amendments, which is a situation in which we are substantially exceeding the limit values and we need to ask whether the additional measures we are taking are sufficient, above all the measures we have already taken. The OMT answered that question last Friday. The OMT will answer that question again next Friday. Then back to mid-September. A number of political groups asked why the choice was made at the time to release the 1.5 metres. We opted for this because we had all the limit values at the bottom: a low level of contamination, a low number of hospitalisations and a low number of ICI intakes. That means that at that time you actually had no other choice, given the proportionality mission contained in the Twm, then say: then we must also take the measures that suit that situation. The OMT also advised us on this and we decided at that time to release the 1.5 meters in line with the OMT recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u229	I felt, during the Minister's speech, that I was watching the press conference, but this aside. Ten minutes ago, I've been listening here for a while. The minister said that the vaccinees are completely protected, but it all went a little too fast and that's why we have such a massive influx to hospitals. It was a bit of an inimitable story. But what, according to the Minister, has gone wrong, which means that we now have new infections every day at 8:00 to 11:00 and the hospitals are overcrowded? So what went wrong according to the Minister's analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u230	What we have seen since mid-September is that part of society has not been vaccinated and has not built up immunity along a natural path along the line of infection. This means that a substantial part of society is not protected. Currently, RIVM estimates that there are 1.5 million people at risk for hospitalisation, because most of them have not built up immunity through vaccination or infection. This could lead to between 15,000 and 20,000 hospitalizations, of which between 3,000 and 4,000 ic recordings. From the outset, including in the decisions and opinions of mid-September, there has been a great uncertainty in modelling, because we were not able to tell at what rate people would become infected and so they would report to the gates of the hospital. What we see, in particular, from the beginning of November, is that it is really going into acceleration and that it has exceeded the limit values in the levels of risk we had formulated. This has also led to the adoption of measures. Retrospectively saying what went wrong is not that easy at all. What you can, of course, say is that I also heard a little bit in your speech: we should have kept the measures in mid-September. By the way, I hear that now in your speech, but I didn't hear that when I did. You didn't ask for a debate or anything at the time. At least I don't remember. That was also true in the House of Representatives. Neither in the Lower House nor in the Upper House was it said in mid-September: it may be that these limits are on the low side, but we are going to keep all the measures. I didn't hear anyone say that at the time. That is also true of the proportionality mission in the Twm, namely that you have to take those measures that are considered proportionate, given the context of that moment. Given the context of that moment, we followed the OMT opinion, in which three scenarios were worked out. The preferred scenario is also the scenario chosen by the cabinet. We also said at the time that it was to be expected that the number of infections would increase. Especially when you lift the 1.5 meters and people get closer to each other, it is expected that the number of infections will increase. The great uncertainty has always been in the speed with which that would happen. We see now in the Netherlands, but not only in the Netherlands but in all European countries, that the number of infections is increasing, regardless of the vaccination rate. Well, there's a big difference in speed. But the number of infections is increasing everywhere and the number of hospitalizations is increasing everywhere. In short, what is happening is that to a large extent people who have not built up sufficient protection will become ill in a short time. That's what we see in the hospitals, and that's why the care is so incredibly under strain. That is why we are keeping a close eye on these figures and looking very closely at whether there is any reason to intervene. I'll be right back to what process we're doing that. But that's the situation when it comes to where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u231	The minister himself says: mid-September was the moment when the Prime Minister communicated that the 1.5 meter was abolished. Of course, you could have done a lighter regime, but you should have maintained the 1.5 meters as advice. Now RIVM has said this afternoon that the 1.5 meters absolutely must be returned, but it doubts whether there is still a possibility of a behavioral awareness among the Dutch population. I share that concern, because I also think that the Dutch people have something like: look at it, we are not going to do that anymore. Why, knowingly, did you run the risk of putting that 1.5 meter, which now has to be returned, right away in mid-September at the landfill? This certainly has to do with unvaccinated people, because there are excessive numbers in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u232	Your question is clear, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u233	Why did you put that mixing panel of Mr Van der Voort, which is 1.5 metres, next to the dirt? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u234	That's incorrect. It's really wrong what you're saying right now. We did it on the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, given the context of that moment. We were then below the limit values of the lowest level of risk and the figures were considered declining. Instead, the advice has come: give each other space and 1.5 meters remains a safe distance. So it hasn't been said: that 1.5 meters doesn't matter anymore, or anything like that. That wasn't the wording. The wording has been: give each other space because 1.5 meters remains a safe distance. Only the pennyable five feet has gone off. Unlike many other countries, we have not celebrated Victory Day. They have done so in Britain and Denmark. We didn't do that. We have actually been quite cautious. We have only thought: you have to take measures that are also proportionate, given the epidemiological context of that moment. If you look at the OMT opinion that gave rise to the decision-making process on 14 September, starting on 25 September, we have actually broadly accepted the OMT opinion and followed the OMT's preferred scenario. Knowing that, of course, due to the seasonal effect, the number of infections would increase again. What has turned out to be uncertain, what we knew at that time is the speed at which people who are not protected become ill. If you look at the background to the overload of care, there is also an important part of it to say that the proportion of unvaccinated people in the hospital is incredibly high, given the low proportion of unvaccinated people in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u235	I'm afraid I'm gonna have to suspend on account of time. Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u236	Then I'd like to make a point of order. That was the point I wanted to make. It seems a little like we're living in a parallel universe here. The Minister is just talking about the abolition of the punitive 1.5 metres in September. I think that many other Members, like me, have seen the news this afternoon that it will apply from tomorrow...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u237	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u238	... and today a measure has been announced that parents are no longer allowed in schools. I find it strange that the Minister should not say anything about this, while he is talking about Friday's OMT opinion, an OMT opinion coming next Friday, as if nothing were going to happen in the meantime. Well, apparently there's a lot going on in the meantime. What I would like to ask the Minister is that my point of order is whether or not we can get an overview at dinner break, with or without a letter, of what measures have been taken today. I checked with the clerk...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u239	Mr. Chairman. No measures have been taken today. All measures taken were notified to you at the last moment of decision-making. So the 1.5 metres that will be fined again from tomorrow is precisely the result of the measures we have taken. An AMvB takes eight days to actually activate and so there is nothing new today. After all, we have already said that the 1.5 meters must be maintained everywhere. The 1.5 meter to be fined, which has a base in the AMvB, was already decided in the final decision-making moment. It takes eight days for that AMvB to actually enter and that makes it de facto effective from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u240	Mrs. De Boer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u241	Then my conclusion is that a lot of communication goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u242	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u243	Thank you. I shall now, unfortunately, suspend, in connection with a number of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u244	No, it's just a matter of reading the letter, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u245	... in connection with a number of committee meetings that are about to take place. Otherwise, I'm gonna be hopelessly confused with the committees. That is why I am suspending the sitting, and of course I invite the interrupters who were ready to get back in the same order at the interrupting microphone, unless they get answers at dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u246	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to come back to the very last point before dinner break. 'Cause I figured it out a little bit. That 1.5 meters, how is it that it is now suddenly in the news and that it was actually not sufficiently known in the past one and a half weeks or last week, asked Mrs De Boer. It's like this. It was in Mark Rutte's speech at the press conference. The literal sentence was: "First comes the obligation to keep 1.5 meters away." That was the literal sentence. We then announced this decision in the letter which was sent to both chambers that evening. The AMvB is then hung over the 1.5 meters to both Rooms. That front suspension period is over and that is why the AMvB has been published over the 1.5 meter distance. That's how it happened. That's clear. Should there ever be another moment when it is unclear which measures apply at any given time: on the site reichsoverheid.nl and on coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl you can always find the current measures of that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u248	Then Mr Van der Voort has the floor, unless he prefers Mrs De Boer to speak first because she still wants to respond to the Minister, since he has responded to her interruption. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u249	Mr President, ladies first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u250	Go ahead, Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u251	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u252	See, that's the courtesy you're waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u253	That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u254	That's right. Go ahead, Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u255	And the Christian Union already wanted to speak on our behalf. That's going really well today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u256	Well, then, you'll have to start now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u257	Yeah, I'll start. You're right, and I also checked on the break: that AMvB was there. My point remains that I think that communication about this to citizens... If it had not come across quite clearly to us, I have asked others, then that is all the more true for citizens. What assists me from the press conference is that the 1.5 metres were appointed as urgent advice. I also looked at the site after that. Then you see the measures in force, and they were included as advice, because at that time it was an applicable measure. The people were then informed yesterday: if you adhere neatly to the measures, then there may be no need for additional measures. If today reports that there is a mandatory 1.5 meter and that there will be a fine from tomorrow, people's perception is that this is a new measure. I understand that it is not formally the case and that that decision has already been made at the time. But I do think it illustrates why we, and rather many groups, have also indicated: pay attention to communication and what is happening in the perception of people in the country. That if the message is "this is an urgent opinion," they think "this is an urgent opinion." If it is said that there will be no new measures, and the next day there will be a measure which is thought to be new, it will not be quite good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u258	All right, all right, all right, The Prime Minister must have sensed that you would ask this question in a week's time. Because what he even said in that speech is: "Whoever is divisive of everything I have just said, and I wouldn't find that crazy in itself, can read exactly what is true when and where on national government.nl." So he had already foreseen this disclaimer in his speech, but it is of course true. It is clear, of course, that after such a press conference, measures are really not ready for everyone. Hence the enormous intensification that we have done, precisely on the basic measures, in the commercials from the government. That's why we always have the current, current measures of that moment on national government.nl and on coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl. Hence, of course, that we always inform the two Chambers very comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u259	Any short points, Mrs De Boer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u260	A very brief point. The Minister is now saying again "the measures in force." There are, I understand, not yet the measures that have already been decided on, but which do not yet apply. Actually, it's only about these five feet. In most cases, the other measures are similar, but they are not 1.5 metres. Can the Minister promise that, if a measure has already been decided but it does not yet apply, that measure will be visible on the website reichsoverheid.nl?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u261	It is visible, but in the form of: these were the measures announced this evening. If you look under the button which measures are currently in force, of course, only the measures currently in force can come forward. We try to communicate as intensively as possible. This 1.5 meter indeed has a separate route, as the only measure, because it requires a separate AMvB that you first have to hang out with. This has been decided because it is a rather far-reaching measure, which from that moment on is really punitive. This will be maintained in a very proportional manner, but a fine of 1.5 metres is quite a lot. That is not a light measure on the basis of a regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u262	I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister gave a chronological overview of the events before dinner break. It is quite correct what he has said, but I would like to add to that. The abolition of the 1.5 meters was for me personally quite suddenly present, but well, you can decide that, knowing that there is a certain risk. It was indeed predicted that sometime in the autumn there would be an upliftment. If you take such a relatively risky decision, I think it is wise to keep an eye on what is happening.Of course, we measure the infection rates and so on every day but also imagine acting on it in time. I remember looking at those numbers the week before the fall recess and feeling uncomfortable. I'm an epidemiologist myself, so I saw that exponential rise there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u263	What's your question, Mr. Van der Voort?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u264	My question is whether there was this unrest and whether this exponential increase has also been noticed by the Minister and whether he did not have the idea at the time: this is not okay and this is what we have to act on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u265	Sure. We are looking very closely at the numerical development. The coronadashboard offers us a huge wealth of information. I have the anomaly that I'm following these figures very closely and there are a few on our team that do the same. That's why given all the uncertainties, you keep your finger on the wrist very well. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in this autumn approach, based on the most likely scenario of recovery, the fact that 1.5 million people are not sufficiently protected and that a serious number of hospitalisations can result from this, has been agreed to act on the basis of a number of limit values. What is the reason for not immediately hanging in the anchors at an increasing level of contagion? That has everything to do with the alternating relationship between the rate of infection and the number of hospital admissions. You can see that the infection rate has passed through 20,000 over the last few days; today about 23,000, assuming that the number of positive test results is probably much higher in reality than the 20,000, with the current compliance. If you turn that off against the number of hospital admissions, you'll at least see that huge alternance relationship. Over the past week, the number of infections has increased by 46%, the number of hospitalisations by 18% and the number of ic intakes by 9%. In short, there is a great uncertainty in the figures that does not immediately translate into measures that you have to take from a certain level of infection. What we do have to do is to prevent care from becoming so overburdened that it becomes inaccessible. That is why we have said that you are taking additional measures to exceed the limit values of 25 and 100. We also followed this very closely when taking additional measures on the basis of the OMT advice we were given. We also follow the advice of the experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u266	I can totally follow that and I have followed that from day to day, that it went as it was agreed with each other. At the same time, I will not have been the only one who noticed that this would not go well and that this would lead to a sharp increase in hospital and ic recordings. I'm surprised at that. The question is how will you deal with that next time? You're gonna let it go again, because that's how we agreed? Or are you still manoeuvrable enough to intervene earlier, to see that the agreements you have are not enough to prevent what is happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u267	Certainly, but in this and also in the other Chamber there is once again a case for predictability. We have offered this predictability, mid-September, on the basis of the approach for the autumn. The autumn approach was based on the scenario most likely to take place, namely the scenario of recovery. We knew that there would be an alternating ratio between the rate of infection and the number of hospital admissions. We have set limit values that allow you to intervene in time to avoid actual, significant overload. I think that after that moment we have all seen that the rise in hospital admissions has continued quite rapidly and is still rising rapidly. It is uncertain to say where we are going to take the turn and see a turn. With regard to the level of contagion, we see some plateaus. We see that there are a lot of children among the infections, and their parents. Those are most likely not the groups that then knock on your gates to be hospitalized. You could read something about that. The question really is whether you are going to see enough change in that this week, and find enough rest to assume that we will take the turn as forecast. In short, it is really up to the Outbreak Management Team to do that explanation for us. It is up to us to take action on this basis. Do I think we should deviate from the agreed limit values? No, I do not think so, because I think that these limits are well chosen and proportionate, given the mandate given by the Twm and the degree of protection we have built up at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u268	Can we wrap it up, Mr. Van der Voort? Just a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u269	Having had this experience, my question remains: is there any reason to do it differently next time, so that we are not surprised by an exponential increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u270	That's the same question, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u271	I understand you saying that, Mr. Van der Voort. But then back again. We are now in the block about the long-term and the strategy, but still back to what I started. We've seen a change of phase in mid-September. That was the moment when anyone who could have been vaccinated. That was the start of a new phase. Now we are at the stage where the group that is not yet protected is either going to be protected by being vaccinated, or by getting sick and building immunity on that side. That's where we're at. It's going very fast now. That's actually too fast, you'd say. That's nice because of the built-up immunity, but that's not nice because of the number of hospital admissions that come from it. But the phase we're going through now, we're not going through it again. That's the other side. We need to get back to manageable numbers of hospital admissions. We must take the necessary measures. I will come back to it in a moment, but you hope that it will not be so violent that you are doing too much damage to the economy and society. But it is also not excluded that they are necessary. Once you're in, you're not gonna let them go until you think that's justified. By then, many more people will have built up additional immunity, so the relationship between infections and hospitalisations will be very different in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u272	Wishful thinking is you're yelling, "We can go dancing." At risk's thought is what I think Mr Van der Voort means. Then I would like to ask the Minister the following. He says, "It wasn't really until mid-September that the moment was true." I looked at it again and then I looked at it regularly: there were actually signs in Israel in July, where the first vaccinations started, that the effectiveness of the vaccines was deteriorating. In August they started with a third shot. Shouldn't you wake up in the sense that you think that's gonna happen to us later? I want to know if that didn't occur to the Minister. If that didn't occur to him, does he regret it? And how's it gonna be next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u273	That's the question about the booster shot. Actually, I'd like to answer that later. 50PLUS has also asked detailed questions about this. A sentence about that. It suggests that the current wave is related to decreasing immunity. The current pressure in hospitals is 70% on the ic's caused by people who have not been vaccinated and 50% of hospital admissions by people who have not been vaccinated. In any case, there is no question of a booster shot. In addition, there is only a few percentage decrease in immunity among the oldest elderly. That doesn't cause the wave we're seeing right now in the hospitals. What we always know is that vaccines never protect 100%. And that's that part that's currently vaccinated in the hospitals. Anyone who thinks that by putting that booster a month earlier or whatever, could have prevented this wave, really ignores biology, I'd almost like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u274	Even if the ratio was 30% vaccinated and 70% unvaccinated, it is still 30% vaccinated. Even if you look at the data from the RIVM, we do not escape the fact that if you are vaccinated, you can always get infected for a quarter and then you can also pass on half that infection to another person. In Israel, almost everyone was vaccinated, as I remember. That's when those hospitalizations came in all at once. So we shouldn't pretend it's all the unvaccinated ones. I don't believe that. It is true that most of the ic's are unvaccined, but I do not think there is any research to show that the vaccinees have been so-called infected by unvaccined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u275	But now you're really confusing everything with all due respect. First, on the current hospitalizations. They're a burden on care right now. We cannot ignore the fact that of the current 488 patients on the ic's, if the ratio is the same as it has been in the past 14 days, 70% is unvaccinated and 30% is vaccinated. If you make that sum, that means that of the current 488 ic patients 342 probably wouldn't have been there if they had been vaccinated. Then there would have been only 146 patients lying on the ic's and we would actually have had almost no problem on our ic's. The second is that of the number of people in hospital beds, the ratio is about fifty-fifty. 50% of patients in hospitals have been vaccinated and 50% have not been vaccinated. There's about 2,000 of them. So let's just say there wouldn't have been 1,000 if they had been vaccinated. Even then the pressure on the care would have been very different. This is no different in home care, of course, and that is not different in the other parts of the care. In short, it is true that vaccination works in a great way, especially against serious infections and hospitalization. It is really fantastic how these figures are and how they have remained. We see that the protection of vaccines is very well maintained. The time that we asked the Health Council just after the summer whether we should start boostering, there was no reduction in vaccine effectiveness in the Netherlands either. Then we repeated that question and at that time there appeared to be a few percent among the oldest elderly and actually more abroad than in the Netherlands. Then we decided to start that booster campaign. And it actually started two, three weeks after the advice came on 2 November. So we started that booster soon enough. Then back to the question of whether this booster could have prevented us from having such care. The answer to that question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u276	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u277	My question wasn't whether we could have prevented the heart attack. My question was whether the Minister was sufficiently aware, even in September and later, that the effectiveness of the vaccines would be reduced and, if you are aware, whether you would say so easily: all vaccinees can go ahead. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u278	Even then, you are confusing a number of things. When are you gonna put in a booster? The moment you see that the effectiveness of vaccines starts to decrease against the primary purpose of vaccination, namely to prevent severe infection and hospitalisations. That we can get sick from a virus: there are plenty of viruses that can make you sick. Only, that you can become so seriously ill that you have to burden care by occupying a hospital bed, luckily people who have been vaccinated are virtually absent. That is a few percent and often they are elderly people with comorbidity et cetera. Decreasing immunity against hospitalization is the reason to boost. After the second time we asked for advice from the Health Council, we saw a few percent decrease in the Israeli studies, and that has led us to start that booster campaign. That's a precaution and it's on time. Could we have overcome the decreasing immunity in such a way that we could have avoided the current wave? I don't think so. Was the knowledge that, after some time, there is always a decline in immunity supposed to protect us from the decisions we made in mid-September? I don't think so either. Mr Nicolaï will be the first, I think, and rightly so, to say that, given the situation, you must always take proportionate measures at that time. That is also what we did in mid-September on the advice of the Outbreak Management Team.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u279	I think it's a very basic and simple question. It's about the Minister's explanation. If we look back to mid-September, didn't we scale too quickly? How does the Minister feel about that? It's about his personal interpretation. That is the essence of my question. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u280	If you look back in time, you can always say 'I actually wanted to take these measures a week earlier' or 'in retrospect, I would have liked to take some heavier measures'. That's always possible the moment you look back. The moment you make the decision, you can't look back. You can't bounce yourself forward in time and then look back. You have to do it with the context of that moment and with the weighting of the epidemiological situation of that moment. We have weighed that epidemiological situation. The OMT has advised on it. And the OMT has described a number of scenarios and also expressed the preferred scenario, namely the actual release of the 1.5 meter as a mandatory measure and instead the corona admission certificate. We chose that scenario that the OMT said at the time "that's our preferred scenario." Would it have been logical at that point in time to ask yourself that if we had said: we see that the level of infection is low, the number of new hospitalizations is starting to fall below 40 and the number of new ic-records is beginning to fall below 10, in short, the limit values of our lowest level of risk are going down, as Jaap van Dissel always says, and so are we maintaining all the measures we have now? You would have said: I'm sorry, we didn't put that proportionality mission in the law for nothing; of course, we should take the step the OMT recommends at the moment. I am sure that at that time the debate in the Chamber would have gone that way. Now the reality is that we knew that the number of infections would increase again, that we have seen that the number of hospitalisations has increased rapidly over the last few weeks and in fact does not give a sufficient picture of the occurrence of a change. This is of course a matter of concern, because we closed down the catering industry in the evening and we have already taken a number of restrictive measures. You also know that if you have to take the next step, you have to take a very firm step to actually give that virus a further push down. That is why last Friday's OMT opinion was as it is. We sent that to the Chamber yesterday. The OMT says: If you want to avoid a lockdown, you really stick to the measures that have been agreed, the only way to actually do so. I've already heard reactions like "you should do a lockdown right away" et cetera, but I don't think we'll have enough on the retina to cause a lockdown to damage again. I am not saying that to you, by the way, in a general sense. You sometimes hear at a single talk show table a bit too easy a plea for a lockdown. Yeah, I guess, but that means that entrepreneurs can't do their job anymore. It means that the cultural sector and the catering industry are falling apart, and that schools may close. That's also part of a lockdown scenario. Is that really what you want? Be careful what you wish for. It may be that the price you pay then is higher than you're actually willing to pay. Lockdowns aren't without damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u281	Mr. Karakus, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u282	Of course, there's a huge gap between the lockdown and the measures you have. If you are convinced that something is harmful, if you are convinced that with a choice for a scenario there is a high risk that hospitalizations will increase again, then you could also choose to discuss proportionality, with the Lower House and the Upper House. That could be a choice. The question I have is next. The OMT is proposing this, too. It says: 'In fact, you have to maintain the basic measures constantly.' What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u283	I think that is quite right. Maybe there's part of the frustration in that too. This is not only with me; it will be with you. Suppose you let yourself work in that the virus doesn't actually have a chance if we just stay five feet away, if we just stay home when we have complaints, if we get tested, if we go into quarantine and just follow the advice of the GGD. If we just implement all these basic measures, the virus doesn't really have a chance. To underline this, these measures apply. So our behavior is most decisive, but in order to underline this, these measures apply, for example in the evening hours for the catering industry and when it comes to the public in sports and the home visit of only four people. If everyone would just stick to that, that way we'll get that R under one again. And yet it doesn't work. Of course, that has everything to do with the fact that it is difficult to achieve this after 20 months of crisis. I understand all that, but it's so frustrating that apparently more is needed to get that R under 1. But that R has to come under one, because otherwise the hospitals simply won't be able to handle it in the long run. Then there must be such care scaled down that the health damage simply becomes too great. So yes, I am in favour of the OMT's plea last Friday; that is also why the cabinet has taken full control of it. That is also the reason for an additional press moment yesterday, together with the mp, in order to emphasise that even more. Can I rule out the fact that we still have to decide on a more advanced set of measures that are much more close to an actual lockdown? No, I can't rule that out. But what I really hope is that yesterday we all saw these capital letters very well in the opinion of the OMT, and that we really stick to those opinions. That's the only way, says the OMT, and I underline that. It's the only way to avert that lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u284	Then I will go back to Mr Raven, on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u285	I would like to go back to September for a moment, because that is what we were talking about just now, and the measures you are or are not scaling down. In my contribution, I had given the signal that in September there was a very strong increase in infections in children. Now I have the privilege of being Grandpa, but three weeks later, after that deliberate press conference, my "eye apple" had corona. So in that sense, of course, that is very annoying, for me, but also for all those children who eventually had and had it. And what I'm reading today is that there's a huge increase in corona contamination, especially among young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u286	So what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u287	The question is: what was the reason why no measures were taken in September, when we saw at the rate of increase that 20% of the number of infections was attributable to children?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u288	The latter is, of course, always the case, because it is simply the proportional ratio of young people under 24 to the rest of the population. But what we have seen recently, especially since the schools started to work again after the autumn holidays, is an increase in the primary school age and in the substructure of vo. The elementary school age is quite explainable. It is simply the selection of non-vaccines, where the virus seizes its chance. Non-vaccines who are also cozy close together, at school, when they are playing, et cetera. Fortunately, because they are children, and they must have that space, but that is also the moment when the virus seizes its chance. Fortunately, children do not suffer enormous health damage. That's true, but the moment they infect Grandpa and Grandma, of course, it's hard. So you'd want to fight it. At the same time, I would say: think about how you could fight it. This can be done by closing the schools; this is a fairly effective measure against the virus. But that is also a measure that destroys many other things. It doesn't just cover the virus, it also covers all the other things, where we wouldn't want to do any damage. In short, you always have to ask yourself which measures are proportionate. In any event, the OMT has not given any reason to advise us to take further measures for the schools at that time, except for the basic measures. At the moment we are still reluctant to say for example: let the vo go online again, or so. Yeah, it's gonna work pretty well against the virus, but at least it's very detrimental to the development of children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u289	I find it a little difficult when you say: I have black and white and there's nowhere else gray in it. I think there's more gray in the world than black and white. So when it comes to measures, you don't necessarily have to talk about closing schools. There's still a lot in between. I don't understand. As an independent organisation that advises the government, you can see that there is a significant increase in youth, which was known - but no measures are actually proposed. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u290	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u291	I often hear: there's still a lot in between. This is also part of the discussion of additional measures that might be necessary to bring the R under 1. Yet the question is: what exactly is in between? You can test more intensively. Does that really help? Five feet doesn't fit in the classroom. At 1.5 meters, education has to be largely online. The question is really: is there so much in between? You can take a number of measures. It's not like you can't do anything. However, it is all incomparable to organising education online again, which we know is what we really do not want anymore. Surely that's the understanding we have with each other. I can't rule out that it should ever happen again, but I do know that we have a huge hesitation in passing that bridge again, because we also know what damage it has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u292	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u293	I would like to encourage, particularly in view of today's figures, at least not to regress in order to take those measures there if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u295	Corona, for children, means a very profound... We get over it quickly, but children are sick for an average of ten days. They have to stay alone in their bedroom for ten days. They don't have any contact with anyone. That is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u296	Absolutely. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u297	I hear the Minister just now in his reasoning talking about whether or not to close down schools. That's right, please don't do it. It is indeed a fair observation that children do not become so ill. However, they may then infect their grandparents. This is then taken as an argument for taking certain measures in the field of education, but the vast majority of the age group of grandparents has been fully vaccinated. Can the Minister indicate the risk that these children will infect their grandparents if a large proportion of these grandparents have already been vaccinated? What is the problem, then, that such far-reaching measures as possible school closure or other measures in education would suddenly be needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u298	That's true. The vast majority of them have been vaccinated. The point is, however, that the vast majority is still insufficient to actually help the hospitals out. I have just explained to what extent unvaccinated people are currently causing the overload in hospitals. That's pretty heavy. They're grandparents and grandmothers of kids in primary school. The point is that at the moment many children and their parents are ill. The age group of parents with children in primary school age is not necessarily the group that comes into hospitals, but their parents are of course again. So Grandpa and Grandma did. If grandpa and grandma are vaccinated, you can assume that the protection against hospitalization is still around 90%. This is not the case at 10%. We know that in some of our elderly people who have been vaccinated, the effectiveness is still insufficient to actually say: it is very unlikely that you will get into the hospital at the time you have been vaccinated. Especially 70-plussers with comorbidity are seen to a considerable extent in hospitals. We see them not so much on the ICU, but in the hospitals. That just means we have to be careful. If 100% of people were vaccinated, the problem would be halved in hospitals. The occupation on the ICUs would have decreased by 70%. But that still means that we also have another group in the hospitals, which has been vaccinated. That's the group of people whose vaccine doesn't work enough to keep them out of hospitals. For that we still have to be very careful with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u299	Then I come to the point that vaccines are becoming less and less effective. We now see this in certain statistics of Maurice de Hond. That's already a problem. Then you can't just put it on that group of unvaccinated people. Because that is what I hear the Minister specifically naming again, as if they were unjustly occupying a hospital. In this country, I don't think anyone is wrongly occupying a hospital bed. The pressure it puts on the Minister is that not a false argument? In order to link this to education, should we not simply ensure that schools remain open and that booster pricks are made available to those who wish to do so, at least in the short term than the Minister now has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u300	I'd like to say a few words about that. I have heard in more contributions in the first term that I would put the ball completely with the unvaccinated. Of course it isn't. Suppose you're 70-plus and you've been vaccinated, but you happen to belong to that few percent who don't have enough vaccine against hospitalization. Then you can't control it yourself. You can't choose. You got vaccinated, you did what you had to do to prevent you from getting into the hospital. You have done what you had to do and what might be expected of you out of solidarity with others. Unfortunately, your vaccine doesn't work. Those are the people you'll find in the hospital anyway. We have a very nasty variant on Dutch soil right now, the Delta variant. It is truly inconsequential in the speed in which it spreads, but also in the extent to which it is sickening. I find the people who say: I do see the offer of vaccines, but I do not take them. For whatever reason, because you're still in doubt, because you don't want to be convinced or because you have religious objections. By the way, we must respect conscientious objectors, but I also think you should point out their consequences. Even though we find the truth hard and sometimes painful, the truth is that if 100% of the people had been vaccinated, we would have had 50% of the problems we see in hospitals. At least, because on the ic's you would have lost even 70% of the problems when all people had been vaccinated. In short, I must be able to keep saying that. That is simply a fact. Care's already busy. Care still has a huge mountain of catching up to do. That's gonna end up on the board of care anyway. The panic in the eyes of everyone you speak from the care is so incredibly great, that I had incredibly given everyone who works in the care that we actually had a 100% vaccination rate. You can say that I am blaming unvaccinated people and that everyone should be able to go to health care. I would like that, too, but the fact is that at the moment not everyone can go to health care. A lot of surgeries are getting canceled. Why are they canceling? Because there's no place in care anymore. Why isn't there a place in care anymore? Because the beds are occupied, at least half by people who haven't been vaccinated. I take it from that: if they had been vaccinated, those people would probably not have been there. That's a truth you can't beat. I don't like saying it out loud either, but I think it's my job to point it out. Choices have consequences and unfortunately not only for the people themselves, but also for others. Then I'm going back to the strategy, because that's where we would've stayed. The next block would only be about the measures, but we were still in the strategy for the autumn. What we have to do from mid-September to winter is to ensure that we are so careful that there are not too many people who are unprotected in too short a period of time who will be infected and returned to hospitals. That was not very successful, because at the moment we see a lot of people getting sick at the same time and getting into hospitals. That's something to worry about, and that's what we do. That was the reason for last Friday's OMT opinion. That is also why the OMT will meet again next Friday and advise us on what to do. We want to set up this long-term strategy that people are right to ask for as follows. The approach we have now taken is the approach for this autumn up to the end of winter. From that moment on, the moment will come when everyone has built up immunity, either along the line of vaccination, or because they have experienced the infection. This is a new phase, in which you can actually say that you are indeed starting the long term. How the virus will behave at that time is not so difficult to predict at the moment. The KNAW and the WRR were already referred The cabinet has said that it will respond to these scenarios in the first quarter of 2022. We've got to get through the winter phase anyway. As I said, it concerns five scenarios: back to normal, flu-plus, external threat, continuous struggle and sausage case. Which one of those scenarios it's gonna be, we don't pick ourselves. The virus chooses that for us. We only choose the approach, the strategy that fits the scenario. We will have to discuss this with each other. That will be in the first quarter of 2022. We are now preparing for that strategy and approach. If you zoom in on those scenarios and listen to what the different experts say about them, then all the way back to normal is not necessarily a very logical or expected outcome in the very short term. Why not? Because we see that the vaccines in their effectiveness against severe infection and hospitalisation, especially among the oldest elderly, do show something of decreasing immunity. That means that at least you will have to give some sort of annual booster, especially to the elderly for whom there is really decreasing protection. So all the way back to normal isn't very likely. Flu-plus, the second scenario, is the scenario that the experts currently consider most likely. Of course, external threats are not unlikely either. According to this scenario, the virus is going to mutate elsewhere in the world, which we are experiencing because the vaccines are mainly protecting against the previous variants of the virus. That's not unlikely. So that means you need to be able to keep guarding your boundaries in the coming time. The fourth scenario is continuous struggle, which means you're stuck in those waves. Of this, the experts say that it is likely that these waves decrease at least in height and intensity, except when the fifth scenario occurs, which is called "wurst case." In that case, there will actually be an escape mutation that completely withdraws from the accumulated immunity. The experts also say that they do not see this happening in the short term. But, of course, you can. In short, we will have to relate to all these scenarios and then develop an approach based on the most likely scenarios. This has a number of measures that we will have to take together. That's definitely about boostering. That'll just turn out to be necessary, I expect. It will also involve quarantine-like measures. They will also prove necessary. The same applies to the ability to continue testing. It is expected that this will still be necessary. We do not yet know to what extent this is necessary, but it will still be necessary. To what extent you will have to continue to be able to take one-and-a-half meter-like measures, it is simply very difficult to estimate at the moment. The same applies to corona admission-like measures. That goes over this winter period, I dare say, but for the period after this winter period, I honestly just don't know yet. One of the most important lessons I have learned over the past 20 months is that I am somewhat less confident about how reality will take place. The virus doesn't care so much about my determination, I've learned. That makes me somewhat cautious about putting it on the mat now what it will look like in the coming winter. It's already hard to predict exactly what this winter will look like. In short, we will have to relate to all these scenarios. In the first quarter, we will have to present an approach, a strategy to your two chambers on how to deal with the different scenarios and how to prepare for them. This means that I have to honour the commitment I made in the previous debate, namely that at the end of December we will outline the legislative ground under the measures to be taken. I think it is likely that we will have to extend the temporary measures a number of times, but from then on we will have to include the provisions that we still think we need in the Wpg. On the basis of the assessment of the crisis, we will have to make the Wpg truly future-proof. You asked for a tip of the veil, here you have it. Can I put it even more precisely: yes, in December. Not yet. So that's the first moment in December. The second moment is in the first quarter of 2022. Then we will come into an actual cabinet response with a response to the scenarios outlined by the WRR and the Academy. Isn't that late? Well, it's actually not possible before, except when it comes to this winter. But we have already responded with our approach for the autumn, which we sent to your Chamber on 14 September. In this we have identified three scenarios, two of which are not very likely and one is. On this one scenario, we have indicated the approach with the three levels of risk with the limit values and also the measures that suit them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u301	I hear the Minister now talking about the long term and I hear him very often using the word'must'. What I particularly wonder about in the context of the measures he envisages, such as the use of a corona pass, the need to vaccinate it, the need to keep a distance of 1.5 metres, etc., is whether the Minister sees for himself that this is going to be a truly long-term policy, whereby the state is going to force the citizens to stick to the measures and we are therefore still stuck with them for years to come. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u302	If I am too greedy with the word'must', that is actually my short-term estimate. It's reasonable to give, I think. If we go through this winter with each other in such a way that we do not overburden the care, then we will indeed have to take into account a number of things. Then we'll have to face the fact that vaccination works. The higher the vaccination rate, the better. You will see me continue with some fanaticism in the coming period. We will indeed have to booster to ensure that the few percent reduction in immunity, especially among our elderly people, does not lead to too many elderly people in hospitals. If we want to get as open as possible through winter and not go from lockdown to lockdown, we will indeed have to choose a wider scope of the corona tickets. That's my short-term estimate for the next few months. For the next winter, I find it much harder to properly estimate this, because we don't know how the virus will mutate, because we don't know what the reduction of immunity will do and because we don't know how much the waves will continue to rise, even in the coming winters, if we have actually built up immunity with each other. At present 1.5 million people are not sufficiently protected, but they will soon have built up immunity, either willingly, through vaccination, or maliciously, through infection. Then you're really in a different phase. How the virus will then behave is very difficult to say at the moment. I do think it would be very helpful to look at the scenarios outlined by the Academy and the WRR. It is quite clear that we have to relate to these scenarios, but at the moment it is very difficult to tell which scenario the virus will choose for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u303	How the virus will behave is indeed difficult to say. But the Minister has a hand in how the government behaves. That's all I care about. The Minister is talking about adapting, enforcing legislation. Does the Minister intend, when he talks about the long term, for example, the corona tickets that exclude a large part of society from activities, the people who choose not to use a QR code or the people who often choose for a very good reason not to be vaccinated? Does the Minister intend to put that off for all this time, which means that in the coming years people will be stuck with those corona tickets, those restrictions, et cetera, et cetera?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u304	I don't share all your qualifications on the corona tickets, but I'll deal with that in a minute. The answer to your question is that I cannot say that at the moment. What I can say is that for this winter it's really very useful additional tools in the toolbox, you don't want to go from closure to closure. It's actually this or more often or longer closed. That's the situation we're in. That's not because I want to, on the contrary. That is because it is inevitable because we want to organise society as safely as possible and as openly as possible. That's the balance you need to look for. I will go into more detail in a moment as to why these corona tickets are such a good tool for that. But that is the balance we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u305	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u306	The point is that the Minister says that he will come up with legislation. Legislation isn't something you arrange for a very short time. Does the Minister see a certain horizon, a certain end date, for that legislation or is it really going to be a long shot and will that legislation go on for a long time? Can the Minister, if he does have a long-term vision, take that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u307	Every three months you want to talk to me about the need to continue, and so we are kept every three months at the KB prolongation to provide each article under the law with a proportionality test, given the epidemiological situation at that time. Or the cabinet that does so in a good way, you can discuss this with us in advance, because we always put it in the letters prior to hitting the Royal Decree. You then organised decisive control under the approval law, thanks to Mrs De Boer and Mr Janssen, and thanks to yourself, because I think you voted in favour of these motions. In short, if we make the wrong assessment, you can appeal to us. If you think we are persevering in the wrong way, you can vote the law out. That is your democratic right, every three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u308	However, I would like to mention the Corona Access Pass, because the Minister says so firmly on this point that we absolutely need it for the shorter period, especially for this winter period. I always have the feeling that we have missed a turn somewhere, because by now almost all experts and I think the OMT say first: that is not the best way to fight the virus; it can work, but only under optimal conditions, with perfect enforcement and control, and in a situation of relatively low infection rates, in times of relaxation and openings. That is, in any case, at a time when we are not at the moment. I honestly don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u309	I'm about to have a separate block on the corona tickets. Then I will also go into in detail the justification given by the OMT for this. It is absolutely true: there is no silver bullet; there is no measure that you can say will really help us through winter. Not at all. It is a sum of measures, Mr Van der Voort's mixing panel. You're gonna have to use all the sliders to get through this winter. But if you are looking for a balance between as safe and as open as possible, then one of those sliders is definitely using that corona access card.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u310	So we will come back to that in great detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u311	I am going to listen very carefully, of course, but then I am very curious about the factual explanation, because I understand that the OMT has said: under the current circumstances that is not the optimal means. But I'm gonna listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u312	I would like to draw the Minister's attention to a pitfall and advise him to take a good look at it. It's about scenario planning. Now I've had to deal with that professionally. What you don't have to do in scenario planning is determine which scenario is going to come out. The minister just said, "I don't know what scenario the virus will pick." I would advise him to set it up in this way, which is actually part of this debate too, that his approach is still working in the worst case scenario as well. And in the best scenario, he's a lucky guy. In between it is finding the balance. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u313	I fully agree with you on that. I say it this way: we are not going to choose that scenario ourselves; the virus will choose it for us. I think that in the debate, not so much here, it is too often said 'we will just have to live with the virus'. Yes, in the end we do have to live with the virus, but that does not mean that we will be able to do so without measures. There will always have to be an opportunity for a cabinet to do what is expected of a cabinet, namely to protect the safety of vulnerable people and to protect care from overload. You have to be able to live up to that. That means you can't say in advance what it takes. You're gonna have to relate to every scenario. That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u314	I welcome that answer, but in the various scenarios that can develop, the escalation of measures must also be clear, and that is something that is still on the agenda, that people are suddenly surprised by a heavier measure coming out of the hat. You are talking about the longer term, so I would say: take that very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u315	Of course, you want to be as predictable as possible, but with the virus it's hard to make an appointment. That doesn't always make it possible to know in advance what to do. On the goal, I think, we have always been very clear: we protect vulnerable people and we have to protect care from overload. That's just the goal. Given the circumstances of that moment, you must be prepared to take all those measures that bring that goal closer. At the same time, you always have to balance: what damage do you do with measures you take? We have a lot of people suffering from the virus, but we now have a much larger group suffering from the measures we have taken against that virus. That doesn't mean that you can promise that you will never take measures again, but you have to promise that that group will take proportionate measures. This is also entrusted to the cabinet once again in the Chamber, and rightly so. That's how the Twm works. That's how the temporary law works. We really see that as an assignment. To anyone who now says too easily, however understandable from the point of view of care, "there has to be a total lockdown," I say: be careful, because the damage you do with it is also damage that makes itself feel for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u316	I would like to thank the Minister for his insight into the scenarios he has mentioned and the future, the medium term and the longer term, as far as he can say. You have also looked at next year and mentioned a number of measures: boostering, testing and quarantine measures. You also mentioned the 1.5 meters. Will you also pay attention to what that palette means for care and for the capacity in care? If you agree to this... I hope that this will indeed be given sufficient attention in the drafting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u317	Sure. We have to get through this winter and prepare ourselves up, relate to every scenario, even for the coming winter. Apart from this pandemic, in the context of pandemic preparedness, that was one last block that I had to add to the strategy, we really want to be better prepared for another pandemic than we were on this one. We will also have to consider: what is the care capacity that you want anyway and how can you scale it up in a good way, where it now costs so much pain and effort and by the way also in control costs so much pain and effort?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u318	In fact, I wanted to add the seasons. Well, that's probably gonna play along. Anyway, if that has the attention, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u319	Absolutely, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u320	My question is a little along the lines of Mrs De Bruijn's theme. I've been putting it on in my contribution for a while. The ic capacity since just before the corona crisis is now 200 beds lower than it was then. What is actually happening in terms of scaling up ic capacity? We see things aren't going well there. It's only gonna get worse. People fall out, people get sick, people get overexcited. If people have to get a fair salary, a higher salary, then half the two of them run away so they don't have to vote on it. What is actually going on to increase ic capacity in the light of this pandemic, but also in the light of the ageing population and perhaps future outbreaks of Joost should know what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u321	I would like to put forward a block and then I will also answer the questions raised by Mr Karakus. I hear quite often: why is the concern not scaled up? Well, it's not, because the care is scaled up. I will also argue later that, on its own, scaling up alone is not a strategy to combat it. What has been done? An additional 500 million has been made available for the scaling up of ic capacity and hospital capacity. I really dare say that money is not a problem right now. What's a problem? Folks, that's definitely a problem. The scaling up of covid care can only be done by scaling down other care. That's the biggest problem. There's a very simple reason for that. You can only put a doctor and a nurse on one bed at a time. You can't just let all the care go on and at the same time opt for the scaling up of covid care. So we see how much pain and effort that scale up care is now associated with. That has... I have to say, in the past few weeks and months, that was also the reason why regular care had to continue as much as possible. A conscious choice. Let's get back to the first wave. Then everyone actually dropped everything out of their hands to come help in the covid departments. That makes that there was a lot that could be done then, because the other concern was actually largely stopped at that time. You can't afford that for more than one wave. So that's what care has taken in a different way. The rampage plan made after the summer by LNAZ together with the V&VN and the FMS, the medical specialists, is actually still an accurate sumptuous plan, although I asked for a review because we indicated that 1,700 beds were ever reached in the first wave and that we also had a second wave in our rampage plan, which we are not going to reach again. That means that there is now a rally plan up to 1,350. One is now in the scaling up to 1,150 ic-beds. A total of 950 are now occupied, of which 480 are covid patients. In short, we are not at the maximum scaling up at the moment. After 1.150 one continues to 1.350. The concern has been expressed: if we have to maintain this for four weeks, it is far or far too much; what we need to scale down for that will also affect the acute planable care, so the care that must take place within six weeks. In short, let us not take too long; a maximum of four weeks has been said. I think we just have to take that into account. A few patients can go to Germany, but that's not gonna help us either. To anyone who says "just built a hospital" or whatever, I say: ultimately, scaling up care capacity is not a strategy to combat it either. If you have a thousand beds and you put 200 beds on top of them, you're at the R we have now, four days at most, and you have exactly the same problem. In short, it's actually just a delay, unless you know how to create so many beds that you can catch the whole wave. Then you take the health damage for granted and then you could store the whole wave in the hospitals. There is no country that can do that with this virus. In short, the scaling-up of care is simply necessary to prevent too much health damage, but it is not a strategy to combat it and cannot help us out of the measures we will have to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u322	I do object, however, to the way in which it is proposed here by the Minister, as if it were some kind of natural phenomenon, such as: it is raining outside; regular care must be postponed because of its ic capacity, that is the case. Of course, that's not quite right. I just read in De Telegraaf that 1,150 ic-beds should have been realized on Monday. It just didn't work out. It's not like we've just been in this crisis for three months. That things went differently in that first wave, unorthodox, I understand. And I also understand that it takes a very long time to scale up care. But if the Minister had started that a year and a half ago, we would now be one and a half years away. Maybe it takes three years to get that on the road, but now it's still three years, you know? I feel like things are moving forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u323	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u324	The capacity that should have been reached on Monday was not reached. It is not the cure of the pandemic, but there are also many other people who need care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u325	I think this is a simplification of reality. But I am glad that Mrs Nanninga is asking this question, because I hear it quite often. Can I say a few things about that? Because of this covid crisis, there have been over 70,000 additional patients to deal with in the hospitals. They're patients with an equivalent of about eight open-heart surgeries when they get to ICU. The average lying time on the ic is 16 days for a corona patient. That makes them very intensive patients and there have been a lot of them. Of the 70,000, about 15,000 came on the ICU. That's what they had to do. It is impossible to organize that surplus, because a doctor and a nurse cannot stand on all kinds of beds at the same time; this can only be done in one way. In the first wave there was actually not really a rally plan; that's right. It has been done and it is fantastic that we have been able to count on care so much. After the summer an upcoming plan has been made and there is a step-by-step scaling up, with a phase layout. Right now, we're in phase 2c. If we go to another stage, it's the minister who's going to cancel it. What must have happened before that next phase? All type U4 and U5 operations, the knees and hips, must be fully scaled, because you want to allow the acute scheduled care to continue as long as possible. That's what's happening right now. We all know someone who's canceled surgery by now. You want to maintain the acute planable care as long as possible and at the same time you are not sure that that will actually succeed. Then there can be a phase where you will indeed have to make the decision to scale up to phase 2d. Mrs Nanninga is quite right that we should have been sitting on a capacity of 1,150 at the moment. We're at 1,055. That is an expression of a number of things, namely that there is probably still some U4 and U5 concern going on at the moment. That really needs to be scaled further, because otherwise you cannot achieve that scaling-up. That's what the regulators are watching. This must also be done in an equal way in order to ensure access to care. It is also just an expression of higher absenteeism among care workers. That is not a Dutch problem either, because we see it in all countries, but it does affect the hospitals. But it has to be: we have to get to the 1,150 and then probably to the 1,350. That's the deal with the care. I'm assuming the care can live up to that deal. But I also think that we should take the concerns seriously in the hesitation that they have. Because it is said that the question is whether we can still deliver the quality that we want to deliver, and we can only do it for a moment, because otherwise the health damage to other diseases will cause too much damage to the patients for whom we feel responsible. I want to take that seriously. If we take action, we'll take it with that on the retina. If it is necessary to avoid a code black situation for care and take very firm action to do so, we will not fail to do so. One more sentence on code black. You've been hearing a lot lately. We're in phase 2c now. Then comes phase 2d. After that, we'll move on to phase three. Then we have 3a and 3b first. Only at 3c do choices have to be made about who is and is not helped on non-medical grounds, such as draw, first come, first served and such principles. Then you're talking about code black. That is why I dare say that we are not there and are not nearly there. But what is the concern already under stress at the moment? You can tell by the fact that scaling up to that 1,150 already costs a lot of pain and effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u326	Finally, Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u327	I think that the Minister does not need to explain to anyone in this Chamber what tension and pressure the concern is under. I find that not having code black is not a super cool result after two years of pandemic. A very sincere question to the Minister: does he think this is a good result? Couldn't something really have been done better to keep those people in the boat before? Again, I understand the peak load and the delayed treatments, but it all feels like too late and too little. And not just for me. Does the Minister really think that this went well with dry eyes and that he could not have done otherwise or better? I don't think having code black is a great thing right now, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u328	Let me say where I would have liked to be right now. Anyway, with less care burden, but that's what I think goes for everyone. But I would have liked to have at this point in time that in every region besides the covid care that one already has to provide, there would also be centered corona capacity, so that in a region you designate a hospital in which you organize additional covid beds in an unorthodox way. I have also been talking intensively about it with care, but right now, the shudder of concern is to go along with it that people are also avoiding the daily operation, people who are all just needed. So that can only be done if you seriously reduce the quality and manage to get people from somewhere else. Well, from where? One does not actually see at the moment how one should operationalise the desire of centered covid care in a region. That doesn't mean I'm gonna stop. I've agreed with the hospitals that, in order to make this possible, I will come back on the line if we really get that 1,350 in the picture. This means that we continue to think about it and continue to work on it in order to achieve it. If you ask me where I would have liked to stand at the moment, it is in any case with less taxation, but also with additional centred covid capacity in each region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u329	Minister, I'd like to take a look at the order, also given the amount of interruptions that are still coming. We had seven topics: the Twm, the long term, the measures now, the measures later, including CTB, scaling up, vaccination and motions. How far have you come from the interruptions? Because then we can plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u330	I have had the block of strategy except for one point, namely the subject of pandemic preparedness. I think I'm gonna have to add that. After that I would actually have gone over to the block of measures, but there came the scaling up of the hospital beds in between, so maybe I should just finish those questions; then we just had that block. Then I can go back to the measures that we have or do not have to take at present and in the near future, including the corona tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u331	Fine. So we're now at the second of the seven chapters. We might have another break tonight. Then you know that. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u332	I have a point of order, Mr President. I read in the paper that you are a very strict chairman. Well, that's fine, but you're very strict with all the people behind the interrupting microphone, and the minister just doesn't answer all the time. He tells me where he wanted to be, but he doesn't answer the questions. So I would like to ask you if you could also ask the Minister to reply briefly and concisely to the questions. Since you always watch the clock very carefully, we can also watch the clock in this way, because sometimes a question is answered for ten minutes without any interesting answer coming out of the story. So let us apply the principle of equal monks, equal hoods also to the minister, that is my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u333	That's fine. Minister, could you give me a more concise answer? Moreover, I have not yet refused any interruption today of the about 300 questions that have now been asked. I do not need to allow the interruptions, but I have not yet refused any interruptions. So I don't know exactly what you're talking about. I do not share your disappointment at a lack of interruptions today, but I am aware of it. I'll direct your request to the Minister. And I'm going to give you ample opportunity to interrupt. I just wanted to make an assessment of where we are and where we are. We now know what the answer to that is and we may be taking another break tonight. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u334	In fact, I understand the Minister's need to deal with the block of measures first; that is all about scaling up and down. Actually, I was gonna jump in on where he left off. If you will give me the floor again when the Minister resumes where he left off, I will gladly give up my place at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u335	For the sake of the debate: I took that trip because Mrs Nanninga tempted me to do so and I was tempted to take that trip to the scaling-up of care. I'm fine with finishing that block. Then we can do all the questions that are going to be asked about that now and then I will go back to the measures that we have taken and that we still have to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u336	So we're gonna talk about this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u337	Let's just finish the scaling-up of the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u338	I do have a question about that. The Minister talks about scaling up care, but I understand that the scaling down of regular care is part of the scaling up of covid care. When we ask for plans to scale up care, we are not just talking about covid care but about care as a whole. How can covid care be scaled up, while not all other care is scaled down? That brings me to a second question. I have heard the Minister say a number of times: we send for group immunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u339	You didn't hear me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u340	Well, that's where we're going eventually, let me put it this way. Furthermore, the Minister says to send on hospital capacity, while, as far as I know, given the level of contamination, the advice at this time is that you should actually send on infections rather than on hospital capacity. My question in relation to care is the following. If we all note that the scaling-up of care is not possible, what are the concrete plans and should it not be noted that the capacity of care should be based on a lower capacity, because you simply do not achieve that higher capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u341	The latter is a very fair question and it is also linked to the first. In the first wave, a huge number of patients in the hospitals were treated at once. That was because a lot of parts of the hospital actually dropped everything from their hands and came to help. That is something that cannot be repeated, because all the other concerns were stopped. So the upswing plan that was made after the summer of last year, which I recently had revised by the LNAZ together with V&VN and FMS, is based on being able to continue regular care for as long as possible, in fact the full regular scheduled care with also the catching-up care. And that went pretty well for a long time. Until over the summer that has actually gone quite well, albeit with that fast scaling up of the last few weeks it is not possible anymore. Then what you see is that there is a need to scale up very quickly in covid capacity. This can only be done by scaling it down in other capacity. Where you saw an uneven distribution, that spread was not sufficiently rapid and insufficient rapid output from the hospitals to the ELV beds or geriatric rehabilitation care was achieved. We were forced to make additional agreements, not only about the scaling up but also about the scaling down and that this happens equally. The scaling up is well arranged. There is a list where every hospital knows what it has to do, given the state of the patients at that time. The scale will have to be agreed to the same extent on the scale of four and five. The supervisor will also ensure that as long as possible can proceed acutely planable. That is the concern that must continue within six weeks. There must also be directed at the outflow. There is a need to minimise the problem of misbeds, which we have quite a lot of at the moment. This is true of the elderly corona patients in whom it takes a long time before they can actually be ejected. And the spread must be properly designed so that everyone takes their fair share: between 90% and 110% of the number of beds it is supposed to deliver. In short, that is related to each other. The LNAZ, of course, is responsible for the consultation of ROAZ Chairmen, and the supervisors, who check whether they comply with the plan, the provision of sufficient beds to achieve the distribution in a proper way, and the actual scaling down so that there is a level playing field and there is no unequal accessibility within or between regions. It is a difficult palette to steer, but we are steering on it on all fronts at the same time to see if we can make that scaling as good as possible and as equal as possible. Then the question about the control parameters. I didn't say "we're steering on group immunity" because group immunity with the infectiousness of this virus has actually vanished beyond the horizon. That's not what you should expect. High immunity, certainly, and of course it will come about by itself, either by means of vaccination, or by chance because people build up immunity by going through the infection. When it comes to the parameters on which you are steering, we agreed in the autumn approach to use hospital admissions as a primary limit. Does that mean that you don't control infections? That is not the case, because you can only intervene at the level of infection, because infections also prevent hospitalisations. When it comes to numbers, they're 25 and 100. For an average duration of 16 days, the equivalent of 25 after 16 days is 400 beds. If you have 400 beds occupied with covid, part of the planned care can continue. That is why we have set these parameters at this level. What we see now is that the number of ic recordings goes way beyond that limit. And so we have to press and lower the level of infection, and then make sure that the number of hospital admissions goes down. If that does not happen soon enough, we will have to take additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u342	It's obvious. The only question is whether that standard of 400 ic recordings should not be lowered in the light of the fact that it is not able to scale care structurally, in the light of what you lose to regular care, planned and acute, and in the light of all the sick messages. Shouldn't that be better directed, which would mean that we should have taken action earlier and perhaps take action sooner next time? And then the question remains open, but perhaps the answer will still come, what is actually happening to ensure that we do have those staff, let's say by next winter, because next week we won't have them, so we can scale them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u343	I think that, on its own, the indicators chosen are appropriate, although the measures you then take should lead you to reverse the upward trend towards lower limit values. That didn't work out. I think that is the observation and not so much that the limit values were set too high as such. Then about the staff. Of course, there has been a great deal of investment in terms of working conditions. There's been a lot of investment in training. Where there really is room for improvement is all that is called "good employership." The subject of "control" has also not been sufficiently developed. I think there's still a lot of work to be done in the hospitals. That makes you much better able to hold people. Look, recruiting new people is doing pretty well, but actually holding people, with the same employer, one employer just succeeds much better than the other employer. In that we see that there is still a lot of room for improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u344	We are all familiar with the concept of "zzp'er, self-employed without staff, but we now also have a lot of bzp'ers: beds without staff. The minister pretends to be able to manage the capacity with his spreadsheets for a while, but I hear stories from hospitals that absenteeism has increased enormously, that this year there are relatively many people who have stopped working in healthcare. There's no way the training can compete with that. I also hear that people's motivation is falling very badly. They say, "We're working our asses off, and then there's people coming in all over the place who are fooling around. We have to take care of them all day in a suit with a hood on." Those people are gonna call in sick or they're gonna quit. I can understand that a little bit. So that capacity, which you, with some form of micromanagement, indicate you have it all under control, isn't there at all. It doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u345	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u346	So what do you think, with these wide-spoken stories about where you would have liked to stand? If you are in control of this crisis, I sometimes wonder. That's what a lot of people in this country are wondering. Do you ever think, I ask the Minister, can I do this? Is this gonna be okay? Do I still have authority in society? What's going on? There's a massive polarization.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u347	Thank you, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u348	If you feel responsible, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u349	It's kind of hard to distill a question out of here. Which of the 24 questions will I try to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u350	I'd like to repeat the question. The question seemed clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u351	You said your question was clear. I didn't think this one was very clear. When it comes to managing care, I will be the very last to say that it is simple, or that it can be based on spreadsheets or whatever. No, the reality of care is extremely unbearable. That also means that I will be the first to say that you will have to organise the management of crisis capacity in another way towards a next pandemic. That's one. Two. That makes me the first to say to anyone who says 'you just need to scale up care' 'care has been in crisis for 20 months and has been scaled up for 20 months'. That's the problem. People are extinct in health care. The rack's completely out. On the other hand, we also have to recognise that the rack is out in society. That sum makes this an incredibly difficult time to drive. You're doing the best you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u352	But my question was next. You have now misjudged the measures three or four times. There is a tremendous fatigue in the care. The population is tired. Don't you ever think to yourself: do you know what, maybe someone else should do it sometime, someone who can regain confidence in the people and care, who can solve this with unorthodox measures, such as special corona centers, in a crisis-like way? We're on that plane now. You're in the cockpit. Then you cannot say "I do not know how to fly; I hope your next flight is better, or that your previous flight was better." We're on that plane now; we need to act now. I miss the sense of urgency. So my question is: do you not feel any responsibility for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u353	I'd like a concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u354	Mr Otten thinks he has picked up sometime that a political debate consists of a whole series of blunt insults, a series of harsh accusations, but life is just a little more complicated. We're running a very, very difficult crisis. This applies not only to the Netherlands, but also to the whole world at the moment. All the Western European countries, all the colleagues I am in contact with, are actually in exactly the same situation. Look at the care in Germany, which has always been said "they have a lot of capacity." Approximately 30% of the ic staff there is no longer available to man the beds. All countries have the same problem. In society the rack is completely out, and in care the rack is completely out. And yet we will have to prevent, instead of seeing the virus as a common enemy, from seeing each other as an enemy. And what is very helpful, Mr Otten, and perhaps you could also contribute to that, is that we recognise that in the political debate, that we recognise that complexity, and not stand by and say that it is all so easy. If you think someone else can do better, be my guest. But if you ask me "would it be a meaningful contribution to the crisis by running away from the responsibility I have," I say, no, Mr. Otten, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u355	I call on Members to remain within the order of the debate. It's about a bill. I also call on you to ask questions about that. Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u356	I do not see much self-reflection with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u357	I think we should stand up for the minister a little bit, too. It is, of course, a very complicated situation. It's not like: put someone else in the cockpit and it's gonna be just fine. It's not that easy. I mean, on the other hand, common sense helps. It's tricky right now. The labour market issue is difficult. Money is there, I understand from the Minister, but the labour market issue is simply a dilemma, also in view of the workload and absenteeism; we also understand that. The Minister will come up with the long-term and five scenarios. My question is: are all these dilemmas together part of the scenarios? Are we getting an insight into that, too? After all, scaling up and scaling down also has consequences. If you scale up, it'll have consequences for scaling up. That means people have to wait longer for care. It might be a choice to say: we're making a different choice for a scenario, because we don't accept that people have to wait for care any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u358	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u359	To prevent me from having many other questions, I have the following question: is it an idea to link that discussion with those five scenarios, where the Minister also links the care side to the choices for the scenarios and the measures taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u360	May I ask Members to allow the group meeting to take place outside the Chamber? It bothers your colleagues if you do that all day long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u361	I think there is a distinction between scenarios for this winter and longer-term scenarios. You ask the question about the five scenarios of the Academy and the WRR. My answer is: yes, because this will include the extent to which covid will play part in the next winter season. That'll be on top of the seasonal flu. So we get a seasonal covid tax and a seasonal flu tax from the care. How can you make that care so scalable that you are burdening the regular care which is really very strongly the case now? This will have to be part of the approach that can breathe with the scenarios outlined by the Academy. We'll get back to that in the first quarter. For this winter actually plays the same story, albeit in a slightly different way. Namely: you can anticipate less, because the time is too short. And the degree of exodus of care is already such that you can no longer require everything from care at this time. I think this means that this winter you will always have to balance the extent to which overload is justified and the extent to which we consider scaling down the regular care responsible. The downside is: what measures are you prepared to take, where you always have to have on the retina what the damage is to society? If we're gonna be advised, we're gonna do it through the OMT. The OMT advises us on measures. With regard to the measures recommended by the OMT, let us always reflect on the different planning agencies. We also look at the social and economic impact of the measures you are taking. That's what I'm saying. Of course, if we go over the winter in a total lockdown, we'll do something good for the care. Then as much care as possible can go on. Then they can rest. Then they can resume the planned care. Then we really do something good for the care, but the damage on the other side is of course also very big. So you will always have to maintain a certain balance and find a balance between the measures that are good to combat the virus and the extent to which we allow these measures to cause new harm to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u362	This is my last question. I understand the reasoning. Do I understand correctly that the Chamber will have five scenarios, and that the consequences for the concern are part of these scenarios? If you say that we want to prevent people from having to wait longer for care, it seems logical to me that you should take stricter measures. That's a choice, too. Am I to understand that these five scenarios are going to be presented so transparently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u363	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u364	Again, I want to take this winter and the next period apart. I think we will have to prepare ourselves for a seasonal additional burden on care in the scenarios towards the next period anyway. What does this mean for the way you set up the care? That's towards the future, but that's not gonna help us this winter. This winter, as you also call it, is the balancing factor. To what extent can you over what period of time overload the care as we are already doing? From what point in time is it irresponsible to delay the acutely planned care that is the care to take place within six weeks........................................................................................................................................................................................... So what measures should you be prepared to take now? You must indeed look for this balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u365	I get it. Do I understand that these five scenarios are presented transparently for the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u366	Yes, of course. In the first quarter, the plan of action from the cabinet comes to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u367	That's 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u368	I have a short question and it can be answered with a yes or a no. A few minutes ago, Mr Gommers said in the hearing of the House of Representatives that within a day or ten we are on code black. Did the Minister know that during this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u369	I have said before that I am very reluctant to use those qualifications. I have just explained that we currently have around 480 beds occupied on the ICI with covid, of the over 900 beds occupied in its entirety. We're not up to 1,150 yet and we have to scale up to 1,350 afterwards. In short, we're not close to code black yet. I can't predict we'll be there in ten days. It seems to me that Mr Gommers cannot predict that either. I also attach great importance to the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, which does not bring this up at the moment, and Mr Gommers is a member of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u370	So the minister says Mr. Gommers is talking nonsense? That's what the Minister says. I would like a simple yes or no to the question whether you knew that Mr Gommers was going to say this in that hearing in the House of Representatives. The Minister is now suggesting that what Mr Gommers says is wrong. I also find that interesting, because then I wonder why it would not be true and whether the Minister knew that Mr Gommers would say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u371	The answer to the last question is no, and that is a good thing. People are free to say what they want to say. People are also free to share their own professional insight. That is clearly what Mr Gommers has done. We simply have to rely on the advice of our experts. They're represented on the Outbreak Management Team. When it comes to the scaling up of care, the interlocutor we have is the National Network Acute Care, in consultation with NVIC, the Dutch Association for Intensive Care, and the V&VN. It is not feasible to make every individual assessment every day a reason for taking measures and so on. We must take the advice of our experts and take action on that basis. Then I will outline to you how the steps will be along the way to code black, which I myself say I am very reluctant to use that term. We're not there. We're not nearly there either. Ernst Kuipers, the president of the LNAZ, also stressed this yesterday: we are not there and we are not nearly there either. We are now on about 480 covid patients on the ICU and that number is increasing. It's rising way too fast, leading to a huge amount of pressure in the care. This is undoubtedly the case, but we are not nearly at the 1,350 in terms of total load on the ic, which is the maximum load that the ic-care can handle. We really have a lot of steps to take before we get there. If it goes that way, one of the steps we have to take is that you take measures to avoid that scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u372	Finally, Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u373	I'm not one of the experts, so I'm willing to assume the Minister is telling the truth. But that automatically means that one of our government's top advisors apparently wasn't telling the truth just now. Whether there is a code of black in the very short term, Mr Gommers mentioned ten days ago, and the Minister of Health is not aware of this. Which of these two options does the Minister consider more worrying? I would find it difficult to make a choice in that, but I wonder what he thinks is more worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u374	I told you how we deal with the advice. We talk to all parties on a daily basis. The LNAZ, the National Network of Acute Care, in which the presidents of the ROAZ, the Regional Consultation Acute Care Chain, are united, is the consultation partner with which we talk about the scaling-up of care. Our supervisors supervise this daily in all hospitals in all regions. Of course, I'm relying on what I hear from our supervisors. That is what we have to do. For the forecast of the situation we are on our way to, we have to rely on the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, although there is also a huge uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u375	Minister, you had seven chapters. Where are we now? Are we still at chapter two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u376	That's a very good question. I think I have had most of the questions about the longer term and about the strategy. One more thing I have to add. That is the subject of pandemic preparedness. What lessons should we learn from this crisis? When can we continue the debate on this subject? At the end of the year, you will receive a policy agenda on pandemic preparedness. I assume that we will discuss this together with a policy response to that other report, that of Bekedam, to which Mr Nicolaï refers. I think we will be able to have that debate in the first quarter of next year. In addition, I assume that from all the evaluative studies, including the OVV, there are also a lot of lessons to be learned for improved pandemic preparedness. So this will just be a big theme next year. This is not so much about how we can prepare ourselves for the different scenarios of the coronavirus and the continuation of this pandemic, but actually about how we can prepare ourselves for new pandemics to which we will have to relate. I would like to add this to the block on strategy and the long term. Then I could do the block of measures now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u377	To be precise, we have now had two out of seven blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u378	Yes. Actually, we've had three blocks. We did the ic-care and the scaling up of it in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u379	That was the fifth block. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u380	My question is indeed about that unfinished block. If I understand correctly, the Minister actually said that in December we would gain insight into the toolbox that the Minister thinks we need in the coming winter. I would like to remind you of something, whether it was a commitment or not. Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman and I have noted at one point that as long as we are still working on the system of temporary measures, and so we need to approve the extension, we have a problem. If we decide not to extend, then all the powers will lapse. In my memory, you promised that we would hear from you at the beginning of December whether the following would be a possible change. My proposal was to replace "repealed" with "sustainable." That change should therefore be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u381	So what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u382	My question is: is there a commitment and can we count on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u383	No, look, the extension actually works like this. Every three months we argue again which articles we do and do not need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u384	I'm sorry to interrupt, but that wasn't the question. The question was as follows. As the law now states, all the powers will fall if we do not approve them as Chambers. So it's all or nothing. Actually, we don't have anything. I do not think there is anyone here who says that you do not need any authority. So it's always about the kind of powers. That is why it was discussed at the time to have another provision in the law, which states that the rules are not repealed but suspended. During that suspension period, you will still have the opportunity to come up with other rules, which will, however, satisfy the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u385	I think your question is clear, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u386	That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u387	I had also begun to answer that question by saying that, with each extension, we really look at whether we still need it by provision. We always send you the OMT advice and also the intended decision from the cabinet prior to hitting the KB. You can intervene on that. Then we make that KB. It is indeed a choice to delete a provision or not. You have put in place the question of whether you could also suspend. Of that, I said that it did not seem very logical to me, because I think you can reason why you still need something, but then you don't have to turn it on in a ministerial arrangement. De facto, the dormant survival of some articles of the law is a form of suspension. You don't use it in a ministerial arrangement. Even if that provision is in that extended law, you don't have to turn it on. Dormantness of that provision is actually a form of suspension. Suspension is therefore hardly of added value with regard to the proportionality weighting of the extension of the Twm compared to the current situation already governed by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u388	Mr Nicolaï, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u389	They're not sleeping, but they're decayed. If you lapse, you don't sleep anymore. So you have to create a new law in which you take back those powers. That's a serious process. That's why the proposal was to let them sleep. That sleep is that in the law you replace the word "disappeared" with the word "disappointed." You'd think about that. I do not need to hear it at the moment, but I would like the Minister's promise to inform us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u390	At the end of the year. Then let's do it this way. At the end of the year, I would, in any case, have promised this in the previous debate to Mrs De Boer, among others, but I believe that Mrs Prins too would give an outline of the legal instruments that the cabinet considers necessary for the coming year. We will then tell you to what extent we think that these extensions are still on the agenda and from what point in time we think that the provisions that are still needed will be able to sink into the Wpg. In that letter, I can of course also comment on the suggestion made by Mr Nicolaï in the previous debate. I'd like to do that. I believe that I also made that suggestion at the time that leaving a provision in the law to sleep has the de facto effect as Mr Nicolai puts it. Then that provision is still in the law, then you can turn it on, but you don't have to if you don't use the ministerial rule to actually use that provision. That is the dormant survival of an article, which de facto has the same effect as suspending an article. I do not think that makes any difference from a practical point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u391	I understand that the Minister is at the end of the long-term strategy. I asked him questions about an alternative scenario, the democratic paradigm. But maybe he'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u392	Mr Verkerk is quite right. I did not do justice to that, when I had prepared a whole speech on it. But let me use that in the strategy's step towards action. Mr Verkerk says the following. The government has been very dominant in the past period, wouldn't you like to start from a society perspective that doesn't cover everything from above, but in which you come much more from society to the things that are just sensible to do? To be honest, I had already read your piece in the Wedding I thought: it would be really fantastic if you could get there. But then I also wondered: could you get to that in the very short term? I don't think so, at the stage we're in right now. At this stage, we can see that too many people are still insufficiently protected. At the moment, they would become ill in too fast a period if we were to say that we now think that is simply a matter for society. Then Mr Van der Voort and his colleagues say: what the hell are you doing? Wouldn't you just get on your feet and make sure that we can do our job a little bit later? Actually, I'd agree with them. I therefore believe that the cabinet still has a protective role to play, partly on the basis of the legal mandate set out in Article 22. But if you're through this phase, and you've even built up immunity in society, willingly or willingly, then you're really going to end up in a different phase. And then you also have to look for new strategies and for a different division of responsibility between the central government and the local authorities, but rather between the government and society. With some jealousy, I sometimes look at how other European countries do that. Look at Sweden, for example. It is often pointed out by people who say that they have almost no measures, while things are going well there. Yes, that is because society itself, even without a government measure at its root, is keeping to the measures quite well. At the very beginning of the evening we had a discussion on the one-and-a-half meter measure as advice or as a enforceable, punitive measure on the basis of an AMvB. This is actually an expression of that. It's a shame you actually need it. But apparently that's seen otherwise it wouldn't have been newsworthy as a reinforced step in handling that 1.5 meter, whereas it doesn't really change the advice we've been giving for a while. So I think that at the moment other European countries are better able to do what Mr Verkerk would like to do and I would actually prefer to do, namely a slightly less dominant, prescriptive government and a somewhat more responsible society. Yeah, you'd like that. But as long as you're not there, you can't say: from now on it is. Otherwise, you leave the care and all the people who need care in the cold. In short, I hope that this is a truly accessible perspective, but I do not expect that to happen this winter. That would be my reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u393	Mr. Van Hattem, would you mind if I had Mr. Verkerk ask a follow-up question first? The Minister is responding to Mr Verkerk's first question. Agreed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u394	I thank the Minister for his reply. I can follow him in this with regard to the first months or even this winter. You will respond to the report of the WRR and the Academy in the first quarter. If you respond to this, could you also take into account the possibilities of the scenarios or the paradigm I have outlined in relation to those scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u395	I'd love to, because that's where it really fits because it's about the longer term. Of course, you have to relate to the different scenarios that the Academy and WRR have put on paper. Several of these scenarios also offer more opportunities to make it a paradigmashift. Where is the centre of gravity in which the measures are to be taken at any time? To what extent are we protected? Is further protection also something of how a society relates to the risks that remain of the virus? To what extent does it require a dominant, acting government to do what we all want, namely to protect our vulnerable people and protect them from overloading?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u396	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u397	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u398	I am listening to the Minister's speech with crooked toes. He's talking about a dominant, acting government. We have a missionary cabinet here that's been on its ass for almost a year. He talks about a dominant government, which has a structural distrust of the Dutch population. Because that speaks of this: distrust towards the Dutch population. I think this is the opposite world. This minister should look himself in the mirror and say: we have destroyed care, we have undermined Article 22 of the Constitution by not investing in care, but by structurally undressing care. And then point the finger at Dutch society and say that other European countries are doing much better. But we, as all-knowing almighty government, know much better for you. We, as a missionary cabinet, can decide as a dominant government that you are not doing well and we can lock the place down with all sorts of pointless and counterproductive measures. Is that what the Minister really stands for? How does this relate to its continued missionary status for almost a year? Talking about the dominant government is nothing but a desire for power and a force of state. The care doesn't buy anything for that and the Dutch people don't buy anything for that. Why doesn't he have more faith in our Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u399	Mr. Van Hattem, you will go to the limits of courtesy. We have invited the Minister here to answer questions about a bill. Then some courtesy fits and also the tone can be something else with the same message.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u400	That may be a point of order. I don't want to make it personal, but I got a big sneak about getting involved in World War II when it was about the word "criminal." I didn't think that was very courteous. I want to be able to say this. A speech about a dominant government is a threat to our people. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u401	First of all, in everything Mr Van Hattem says, I really do not recognize anything, but nothing at all, from whatever comes close to what is happening and from how the cabinet is working, including in missionary status. The cabinet is sometimes searching, given all the uncertainties that the virus brings, but it acts as best it can, because we have to protect people's health, because we have to protect vulnerable people and because we have to protect care from overload. Nothing, but nothing at all of what Mr Van Hattem says, is in any way associated with the commitment of this cabinet, nothing at all. Two is that, I think, he deliberately misunderstands what I just said to Mr Verkerk. As a cabinet, you do not want to take those measures that we have been forced to take in the last 20 months. When you start a ministry, this isn't what you think you're called for. The measures that we have had to take in the past period required very difficult and very far-reaching choices. You have taken no responsibility for this in any way. You have consistently voted against the whole crisis for a long time. We have had to take these measures, precisely in a way that I say is not how a government and a society should relate to each other. You only do this in times of a very robust crisis, where you are forced to take very radical measures. Closing times, curfew, all these measures, that is not what you want, but they have proved necessary. And then we'll take them, too. As a government, I say to Mr Verkerk, who has made a very interesting speech, you would want to relate in a different way to society. In fact, you would like to put the responsibility back much more back on the society itself. This is a way that is much better suited to Dutch politics, which is much better suited to the House of Thorbecke, which is much better suited to all the political philosophies that characterize the Dutch state system. In short, it is the exact opposite of what you claim. On the contrary, we would like to relate in a different way, but at this time, in this period, in which we can still face a harsh winter, that is not possible. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u402	I also said it here last time in July: we are now in a situation where we have to be put into some sort of hibernation every winter, when marmots are dragged into the ground, in order to get out again in spring. That's the situation this minister is working towards, because he just can't do anything better and has undressed the care. I would have liked to have refuted one thing, namely that we would not have gone along with anything at all. As a PVV group, we have gone along with a great many things, especially at times when it was really necessary, but we do not go along with measures that disproportionately undermine the rights and fundamental rights of our people, and that is what is at risk here. Then I'd like to go back to the beginning of the crisis. At that time it was precisely this minister who was simply doing far too little and who himself came up with proposals, and I found that extremely shocking, even at that time, when hospitals became overloaded, to transfer corona patients to nursing homes. At that time there were no protective equipment at all. So he wanted heavily contagious patients...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u403	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u404	...to transfer to the weakest. I would just like to say that this Minister has not only undressed the concern, but has also provided counter-measures. Now we are taking counter-measures again. How can the Minister maintain with his missionary status that this government should impose such a compulsion on the Dutch population? How can he impose this on the Dutch people as a raised father?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u405	First of all, it is true that Mr Van Hattem might simply be able to look into this experiment of thought that if we had done what was the input of the PVV at the time, we would not have taken any action. Then the care would have become totally overloaded. Consistently, the PVV voted against measures that had to be taken. Consistent. Consistent. I've been to all these debates and I've been keeping up really well. Consistent. Two. The issue of restricting fundamental rights is certainly on the agenda. On the contrary, we have had very wide-ranging debates on this issue. Of course. The virus limits everyone's right. That's the point. We have here in this House, but also in the House of Representatives, always to consider whether we consider an infringement of fundamental rights to be justified, given the importance of public health. In short, the closure of the catering industry is a serious infringement of the right to property and can only be justified if it also allows access to care to be maintained under the same Constitution. It must also be the most proportionate move towards that legitimate goal. That is why we have all these debates. That's why we have the Twm. That is why the fundamental rights weighting in the Twm is the same. That is why we ask the Council of State: do we make up for that? And that's why we're having these debates here. No one, but no one really can say that they would not be prepared to restrict fundamental rights. If we do not take those measures, which indeed restrict fundamental rights, then the virus will restrict other fundamental rights, namely access to care or the right to protection. In short, these fundamental rights are at issue, because the virus has got hold of us. This means that we must enable ourselves to balance this fundamental rights, and we must take the measures that can also be expected of us. But never more and never longer than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u406	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u407	The Minister is now shifting everything: 'the virus determines the situation', but it is ultimately the austerity virus that has set this minister in motion in order to ensure that the care is simply understaffed, undercapacity and therefore unable to handle the matter. And the biggest problem is this. I have consistently asked for indicators, on which measures are based and can be measured. Now the Minister comes up with measures that proved totally ineffective, such as curfew. He literally mentions it as an example of what was necessary. We have never been able to determine in advance whether anything was necessary. We have never been able to judge to what extent anything was necessary. And now the Minister says: we had to, to relieve the burden of care. That proved nothing in advance and it has often proved nothing at all afterwards. What has happened here is a great deal of policy based on assumptions, and on assumptions you should never seriously restrict fundamental rights. My question to the Minister is: how long will fundamental rights be restricted in this country on the basis of such unproven assumptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u408	As long as it is necessary to protect other fundamental rights, namely the importance of public health and access to care. One more correction, because Mr Van Hattem is doing it again and your foreman in the House of Representatives is doing it every debate: the total fact-free accusation of cutting back on care. When I was allowed to defend my first budget here, it was not so long ago; four years ago, there was an amount of about 80 billion in that budget if you put all the expenditure together. The last budget is a budget of 100 billion, i.e. 20 billion plus, 21 billion to be precise, in four years' time. That's not a cutback. There is absolutely no way of calling that a cutback. That is a lot of additional expenditure. Yeah, but what about the salaries? Okay, let's take a look at that: 6 billion structuralally, 3 billion incidentally over the past cabinet period, for next year a plus of 2.3 billion, by the way, structuralally. We have also made additional resources available on top of the regular development of working conditions. Yeah, but what about ICU? That's bullshit, too. From the start of the pandemic 500 million extra went to ICI care and hospital care to finance the scaling up of bed capacity. Yeah, but... Well, that's how I could argue on all fronts and prove that a lot of additional money went to care. Money is not our biggest problem in this cabinet period, but in future cabinet periods, by the way, because someone has to pay that money. Those are taxpayers or contributors, and somewhere, of course, that account comes up sometime. So more money for the care? Yes, I'm in favour of it, but let's not spend any more money, because otherwise care will turn out to be unsustainable towards the future. That account will eventually have to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u409	Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u410	Mr President, I have another point of order, actually three points of order. I believe that Mr Van Hattem's tone does not reflect the respect that the Minister deserves. I was raised classically at this point and I am grateful for that. I think that will serve the debate as well. Second. Mr Van Hattem did it again. I told him this morning in an interruption about the quality of Dutch care, which according to the recent OECD study is number two, but Mr Van Hattem repeats the same allegations, factually, factually free. I would like to invite him to congratulate the Minister on the fact that, on the basis of the efforts of this Minister, the Netherlands is in place two. Third. Mr Van Hattem is working on his third term here. I think that's wrong. The interruptions are for short questions and not for third deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u411	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u412	Mr. Chairman, I actually wanted to make a point of order. Shall we really listen to the content here in this Chamber, in the chambre de réflexion, not always twist the content, but really listen to what is being said? You don't have to agree; that's why we're here. On the one hand, let us really listen to what is being said and stop personal attacks on the other hand. I would like to see more respect for the content and for the people who stand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u413	A clear call. I agree with that and I think many of us. Minister, where are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u414	Thank you. I'm going to start with good courage on the block of measures. I think we've already had some. I would like to begin with Mr Van der Voort's point, namely...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u415	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u416	No, you can't just take the floor. You can speak after I've given it to you. The minister was still quietly talking. Mr. Van Hattem, I'll let the minister finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u417	But I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u418	No, I am not giving you the floor, not even on a point of order. I'll let the Minister finish, and then you'll certainly get the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u419	Mr Van der Voort had one, I think, visual statement, which I had heard before, I am thinking of one of the talk show tables, of the four categories of measures that you would like to take for this winter period: general measures, protection measures for people who are not protected by vaccination, further increase the vaccination rate and put the booster pressure on them. I can only agree entirely with Mr van der Voort. I also believe that we are currently taking measures in all these categories. Anyway, we're increasing the booster rate. Anyway, we're increasing the vaccination rate. I will explain this later. Protective measures against people not protected by vaccination are difficult measures. It means differentiated measures. The corona tickets are actually closest to that. The more general measures are so difficult to measure. I have just explained this in the direction of Mr Karakus. There is no doubt that the aim of protecting care against overload and the protection of vulnerable people is always a matter of proportionality in the measures you propose. You should be willing to decide on a lockdown when it is strictly necessary, but you should be careful with that if it is not strictly necessary. We also know the damage caused by lockdowns, by the schools, and even if you leave the schools out of it, it's the cultural sector, the catering industry and all the other sectors. You don't mean to be obnoxious about that either. On the contrary. I certainly agree with the sliders in your mixing panel, but the measurement is the most difficult question that you have to ask every day, especially this week. Of course, we are all very concerned about these rising figures and about where we see that trend. If it is too long, it is inevitable that you will have to take very firm measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u420	Then there is a point of order from Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u421	Mr. Chairman. I think it is too short of a turn of events for the President to go along with all the CDA's comments in my direction. If there is a point the President wishes to make, I would like to hear it from the President himself and not from CDA and Christian Union spokesmen who are speaking in my direction. If there is any comment on what I am saying here, I would like to hear it directly and not through other Members of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u422	I understand that very well. That's perfectly right. I didn't hear the CDA mention your name at all, by the way. Mrs. Prince has made a general appeal for courtesy. She didn't mention your name, and it wasn't addressed to you, but it was general. I have agreed to this, and I think that most of the Members here agree. I did not mention Mr Verkerk's contribution, nor did I agree with that. I'm not getting involved in that. If you thought it was in your direction, I can reassure you. The good news is that that was not the case. Mrs. Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u423	Let's go back to the debate. I have a question for the Minister. Did he finish the booster chapter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u424	I'll get to that in a minute. For the record, I will deal first with the measures, then with the corona pass, then with the vaccinations and then with the motions, so in that order. I'm going back to Mrs. De Boer. She had a very nice check-off list in her contribution. Are we ready and ready to do the following things? Temporary closure of sectors, including support packages, educational measures, booster measures, the provision of vaccines to other countries, measures to further strengthen the capacity of the ic's and combat disinformation. For the sake of clarity, I can say yes to all these questions as regards readiness and preparedness. At the same time, I agree with everyone who says that we should always keep an eye on the measure. We discussed the capacity on the ICUs in detail. Combating disinformation was also an important point in D66's contribution. I have always found it an important theme, but I have never realized that disinformation and its spreading has such a toxic effect that literally and figuratively people can die from it. That is what is happening. When I hear the stories from you and your colleagues, we have people who are denying the virus until they are intubated, then we have people who are very sorry about the ICUs in hospitals, because they have fallen into the trap of disinformation, because they have been questioned by disinformation. Disinformation has a toxic and disastrous effect. I've never actually seen that as close as in this crisis. That then raises the question: how do you arm yourself against it? Mr Ollongren has a whole approach to disinformation. We are doing a great deal in addition to that, when it comes to disinformation about corona, by making a great deal of factual information available in all possible ways. By helping people who have been questioned by disinformation to get those doubts answered in a good way. By using experts, because often it is not the government that can break through the counterwind of disinformation. Often you also need experts, white coats, because white coats have great confidence and we need that great confidence to overcome doubt. So we're deploying experts. In addition, we have a very intensive conversation with all kinds of tech companies that own social media channels, to see what they could do with them, because they also have a social responsibility to combat disinformation. One platform is much more willing than the other. These platforms have united in a tech coalition with whom we have these talks. In particular, where we see that there is a real spread of disinformation, and we signal it, a part of it is that I leave it carefully formulated by the tech companies prepared to actually act. And it is also, of course, quite difficult to limit. Beware of the day when the government decides what should and should not be said. Of course, we don't want to. You certainly don't argue that. It actually makes countering disinformation such an incredibly complicated subject. But that it is dangerous, that we should normalize it, that we should address each other where it is spread and that we should contradict it with factual information is beyond any doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u425	In my contribution, I also referred to disinformation, particularly the e-mails we received last week as Members of Parliament. I had the impression that a number of e-mails are based on disinformation. What chance do we have of doing anything with that? Of all these people, we have e-mail addresses. We could communicate directly to those people where they're wrong and which isn't based on facts but on fake news. If we could do something with that, it has also been useful that those e-mails have been sent to us and that we have actually checked whether it is true. I understand it's a huge pile of work, but it seems like a first step. I call on anyone who can make a contribution to this to actually convince people that what they write is not true for a large part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u426	I very much agree with you. What could be a somewhat manageable way for you, also in terms of workload, is to refer them to coronavaccination.nl and pebbles without appointment.nl. Especially on coronavaccination.nl we have all the common doubts, hesitations and reactions to disinformation infographics and videos. We also use them in information to all kinds of groups. Information is now available in 11 languages on the most important questions. That too is very intensive. We see that part of the migrant community in the Netherlands has a greater susceptibility to disinformation. In the large city districts we notice that a lot of disinformation is being spread there. In the Moroccan community, for example, it is very common for children to see videos that make them say to their parents: don't, because I've heard that you can get this or that from them. Among many migrant youngsters, but really not only among migrant youngsters, you have the story that it might turn out to be negative for your fertility, for example, if you take the vaccine. That is a very widespread misunderstanding, or much worse than a misunderstanding: it is simply a misinformation that is being disseminated. In short, on all these elements, we will have to make factual rebuttals. Everything the government does about it, you will find on coronavaccination.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u427	Last year the problem in these migrant groups was discussed in the Lower House. The house was too small when our group chairman, Mr Wilders, brought it up. Then he was put away like a bunch of shit. Now we see that the minister himself has a whole story about disinformation towards migrant groups. But how big is the disinformation factor that the Minister himself is spreading? Because I also read in the media, and in the mainstream media, that from the OMT, by Diederik Gommers, it was said that the minister often hides behind OMT reports, but also brings up cases where he pretends to come from an OMT advice when that is not the case at all. So, by hiding behind these OMT reports, as Mr Gommers has pointed out, is the Minister not himself in the process of disseminating disinformation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u428	The answer is 'no' and you can simply check it yourself because we write the letters to the Chamber and the OMT opinion is always attached to it. So if we deviate from the OMT recommendation, it's in our letters and you can test it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u429	But the Minister not only communicates with letters to the Chamber, he is of course always on his pulpit at the press conference. Then all kinds of assumptions and things are announced. There are interviews. In my view, Mr Gommers has rightly pointed out that the Minister would then pretend that the OMT is behind it. How does the Minister look at this statement by Mr Gommers, who at the same time as OMT is constantly acting as a source?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u430	I suggest that we continue to focus on the bill before us, but in that context you can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u431	It's wrong, it's really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u432	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u433	This certainly has to do with the legislative proposal, because this bill also relies on the OMT. If one of the most important OMT members is going to say that the minister is wrongly often hiding behind the OMT or behind OMT opinions, which is not right at all, then we are dealing with a piece of disinformation from the minister. If the Minister can't even give a decent answer to this, I think it's worth a lot of discussion. So I would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at Mr Gommers' remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u434	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u435	One, it's incorrect. You can see that for yourself because we always present the OMT opinions as an annex to both Chambers in complete transparency. We're gonna write down what we're gonna do. We write to what extent they also correspond to the OMT advice. You can also read that yourself by reading the OMT opinions. But there's actually something else that stings and disturbs me in this intervention and that's about reverberating the word "disinformation." That's pretty damaging what you're doing. In fact, disinformation is not an innocent term. Disinformation leads to the fact that there are people lying on the ice with Mr van der Voort who have been questioned by that disinformation, for that reason have not taken a vaccine and are now on their belly on the ice. That's what disinformation does. What you are actually doing through your intervention is to trivialize the seriousness of disinformation by putting that piece of disinformation on statements made by someone in the newspaper or whatever or on statements made by the minister. Let us continue to see disinformation as what it is, namely as something very damaging and as something very undermining for public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u436	That point about disinformation is justified. I think the Minister has responded well to that. But there's also a flow of information. The target groups you are talking about depend on certain information flows. If a GGD employee indicates in a personal capacity that you should not be vaccinated for certain reasons, it is understood as a position of the GGD. We also have to deal with this in practice. How do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u437	As far as that G.D.D. employee is concerned, I don't have an example of my own. What I do hear with some regularity is that people say: I cannot be vaccinated. When asked why, they say: I have a disease that would prevent me from being vaccinated. This is also sometimes based on information that is found somewhere on a website or that they have heard from a medical professional, which does not always seem to be true. I wouldn't want to qualify that as disinformation, by the way. Disinformation is deliberately spreading false information that undermines public health. This is just wrong information that you can get on somewhere and make people doubt it. What we are actually putting in place is to ensure that we can reach people in all possible ways, to provide information points where people can come up with doubts, and to ensure that we go into the neighbourhood with all the white coats that are tempted to do so in order to be available and visible for questions everywhere. I will go tomorrow to a mosque in The Hague where a pop-up location has been set up where a lot of people who have hesitations and questions about vaccination can go and get that shot without an appointment. Helping all those initiatives to help overcome doubt. I think we should do everything we can to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u438	Finally. Has the target group ever been asked how they get information? Has there been any commitment to channeling that information? You're already setting an example. But has there ever been a proper investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u439	Quite a lot, actually: inventories, polls, investigations. We know a number of things about that. One is that they are the same recurring questions and concerns. It's not like we discover new disinformation every day. The doubts are essentially always the same, namely: what is the long-term effect? It has been developed in such a short time and how can it actually be valid? I hear you can have terrible side effects. I heard it could make you barren. Those are the usual doubts people have. The seeds for those doubts are planted by disinformation. How do people get their information? For an important part via government websites or GGD-websites and for a very important part through the GP. That's an amazingly important medical professional. The GGD'er that one encounters nearby is also a tremendously important medical professional. But one also very often arrives through one's own social environment, sometimes through authoritative key figures in the environment. That is also the way we can reach new groups. But very often it also happens through their own children. That's actually the hardest part. Suppose you're not very powerful in the Dutch language. Suppose you don't flatten the door at the doctor's. Suppose your kids say to you, "Mom, Dad, you shouldn't, because I saw a really scary movie yesterday. Here, take a look." That's incredibly hard to break through. We're not in the middle of that, and we're not really getting there. That is a very difficult to break stream of disinformation that can really undermine vaccination readiness. What can you do about it? Make sure you have more moments to talk to people yourself. Make sure you get in touch with people through key figures. Such initiatives and projects are also taking place at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u440	Short question, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u441	When we talk about target groups, I assume we are talking not only about people with a migration background, but also about illiterate people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u442	Yes. Grosso mode you're talking about old city districts in the big cities, especially the three big cities, but not exclusively. Those are the biggest groups. And you're talking about the Biblebelt, but that's really a very different type of groups and you have to reach them in a very different way. That's where the biggest assignment for us is. Then, Mr President, I think we have already talked a lot about the approach. I'll quickly browse through it to see if I haven't answered another important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u443	Didn't we arrive at vaccination by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u444	Sure, you can. No, I think I'll do the corona tickets first. We have talked about the measures we are currently taking. We are at the beginning of winter and we cannot fully assess the extent to which the virus is affecting us. We do know that that 1.5 million-dollar group is at risk for hospitalization the moment they encounter the virus. We also know that the rate of infection is so high that it is quite likely that they will encounter the virus in the next few weeks or months. First of all, we need to reduce the rate of infection in order to reduce the number of new hospital admissions. That's the first thing we have to do. To this end, we have identified the measures I have just referred to as blunt measures in the direction of Mrs De Bruijn. We're gonna need it to push that virus further down. That's one. Two is the hope that you will not be dealing with a lockdown situation all winter, but that if the number of hospital admissions has actually decreased to manageable proportions, you will also be able to use other measures that can find a better balance between as safe and as open as possible. For this we do want to work with a further extension of the corona tickets. There's a lot of criticism about that. Mr Van Dijk made a very fundamental criticism of this. This also fits in with the commitment that the SGP Group has chosen for a long time. Others also have a fundamental criticism of this. I will be the last to say that the measures we intend to take would not be critical. That wouldn't be right. So I also think that we will have an intensive debate on this. Suppose you really had the free choice and would ask: do you like that idea, that you will have to work with 2G? In fact, I think we would all have some reservations about that. If you'd asked me a year ago, I think I'd have been much more reluctant about that. But you can work on what we might run into in the next winter, namely that you still have a decent infection rate and that despite the vaccination rate we have now, you still have quite a few people who are not protected. If you wanted to meet in larger groups, the greatest risk of infection would be the people who have not built up protection. We know that. We now work with 3G, in that type of high-risk settings, in which vaccinated people, cured people and tested people are together. Who walks out there with the virus to a higher degree? Those are the tested people. Why? They didn't build up protection. Vaccines, of course, do not work 100%, but they do work properly against infection, for about 75%. Of course, they work very well against hospitalizations, for 90%, but they still work against transmission, for 50% to 63%. That is the benefit of the vaccines and that is what the people who have not been vaccinated lack. That makes them more vulnerable when they step inside a large setting with lots of people at the same time: a pop concert, a discotheque or The Friends of Amstel Live in a full Ahoy. It's the people who step in without protection who have the most chance to step out with the virus. If you realize that, you need to find an answer. Would there be a safer way to do that? 100% safe doesn't exist to work with those corona tickets anyway, so you can find a better balance this winter, to get together as open and as safe as possible? For this we wanted to use the German example of the 2G design of the corona tickets. Just look at the modeling that the OMT has done about it, which was included in the annexes we sent to the Chamber yesterday. There you can see a big difference, albeit with an ideal typical execution, between the effectiveness of the 3G corona admission ticket and the effectiveness of the 2G corona admission ticket. What can you expect from 2G compared to 3G? That's 50% reduction in the number of infections at that site, and 82% reduction in the number of expected hospitalisations due to infections at that site. What would happen if you dropped the CTB at all? Then the number of infections, if you come together in similar settings with similar infection pressure et cetera, would increase by 59%. In short, compared to the zero situation in which we use CTB 3G, you can expect a 50% reduction in the number of infections at 2G and 82% reduction in the number of hospitalizations. If you were to completely drop the 3G option, you should take into account an increase in the number of infections of 59%. Is there anything to be done on this modeling? Yes, of course, because it's a modeling. It depends entirely on the degree of control, the degree of implementation, the degree of enforcement, etc. But you can also say on this basis: then 2G is a proportional procedure. Because that's always the question: is it even proportional to do it? Surely it means a greater violation of the freedoms of people who have not been vaccinated? Is that a legitimate breach? My answer is yes, it's a legitimate breach. It is, of course, an infringement; you have to be honest about that too. But it's a justified breach, because the alternative, if you didn't, would be that you'd have to make a lockdown more often or longer. So it's not this, or else it doesn't have to. But it is: this, or else more often and longer closed. I just expect that we will be discussing this very comprehensively in the course of the legislative proposals. Because we have made that fundamental rights balance very carefully in the legislative proposal, but I also think that it will give rise to an urgent debate for you. And I think that is right, because this is a firm measure, which we take for good reasons, but which, of course, is not higher than any discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u445	Mr Janssen has asked to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u446	I apologize to my colleagues. I hear the Minister making a very long talk about 2G measures. That proposal was sent to the House of Representatives yesterday. My proposal would be that we should discuss this in detail at the time when we are discussing the legislative proposal, because otherwise this will be very far from the debate we are having today. We can talk about this subject for a very long time, but as far as I am concerned, not tonight, but when the legislative proposal is on the table here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u447	I'll see if there's any support for the proposal. In any case, there is support from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u448	Mr President, may I make a counter-order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u449	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem for a reply and for the question whether he supports the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u450	I do not want to support this order proposal, because I want to make a counter-proposal. We currently have this law in place, which lays the basis for these further interventions under the Public Health Act. In addition, motions have already been tabled that touch on the 2G policy. If we send that 2G policy here today to the Minister, so 'please stop it', then we have already put a line through it. So in that sense, I think it should be possible for it to be part of the debate today. Dutch society also has a right to hear our views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u451	You don't support the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u452	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u453	Mr. Nicolaï, do you support the proposal? I'd like a short answer: yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u454	I think the proposal makes sense, but I actually had one more question for the Minister because he brought up 2G here. I just want to explain...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u455	No, no, no! We have an order proposal now. The vote will take place immediately. Mr. Nicolaï, the question is whether you support the order proposal or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u456	Then I would like to explain that I support it on parole if I have the opportunity to ask the Minister if he can still provide certain factual information before we deal with that bill. So, in that sense, conditional aid. I just have two factual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u457	I don't see any support for the time being. Mrs. De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u458	Mr. Chairman. The VVD supports the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u459	Support. Then 50PLUS, Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u460	Definitely support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u461	Support. Then the CDA, Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u462	Express support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u463	Then Mr. Backer, D66. It's okay without a mouth cap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u464	Mr. Chairman. Although I understand that the Minister is giving a preview, I do not think it would be wise to discuss it now. So I support the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u465	Thank you. Then Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u466	Thank you. We also support the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u467	Then there is the SGP, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u468	I understand the order proposal. At the same time, I would like to say that we have chosen that this would also be a kind of policy debate. In this sense, colleagues also have the opportunity to bring in everything that affects corona. So I find it complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u469	Yes. So do you support it or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u470	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u471	You don't support it. The SGP doesn't support it. Mr Karakus, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u472	Mr. Chairman. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u473	The Labour Party supports the order proposal. Then Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u474	The Minister is really talking today about almost everything except the bill. So we do not support the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u475	I don't. Then Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u476	I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u477	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Then Mrs Nanninga, on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u478	No support, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u479	No support. Then there is the Christian Union, Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u480	We support the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u481	You support it. I have only Mr Van der Voort, but of course he has been represented by Mr Backer. It almost went wrong in my state. I do not see Mr Frentrop of the Forum for Democracy, but I note that there is broad support for the order proposal. Is that right, too? I'm just gonna take a look at the Griffin. This means that the subject of the CTB legislative proposal is outside the scope of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u482	I have one more point on the basic measures. I have just heard the Minister tell me all about 2G and 3G, but there has also been an OMT report, in which it is clear, even with thick capital letters, that if everyone adheres to the basic measures, then we do not need 2G and 3G. If the Minister can let go of this one-sided focus on his 2G and 3G policies and just think more about the basic measures, why does he insist on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u483	The formulation of the Outbreak Management Team was just another thing, namely: a lockdown is only averted if we really stick to those measures. That's what it said with capital letters. That was also the reason for the press moment that the Prime Minister and I had yesterday between noon. So that wasn't so much about 2G, 3G or corona tickets. It was about averting a lockdown. With the use of corona tickets you hope that you can make some settings possible again, so that you can go through the winter as much as possible, but in a safe way. Then the question is whether 3G-corona tickets are valid. If the answer to the question is no, because the rate of infection is too high and the vulnerability of the people who are not protected is too great, then the next question is whether there is an alternative that is not as profound as a lockdown. This alternative might be in the form of 2G for some of the possibilities. I understand from the order proposal that we are not talking about this today, but when the legislation is on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u484	That's right. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u485	However, I believe that the OMT opinion also stated that I understood that the basic measures are many times more effective than the 2G and 3G policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u486	If 100% of the people kept 1.5 meters away, you wouldn't need any other measure at all. If 100% of the people would stay at home in case of complaints, be tested in all cases and in 100% of the cases give follow-up to the quarantine order given from the GGD, there would indeed be no need for additional measures. What we are seeing is not yesterday, but as time passes in this whole crisis, there is a decline in compliance. You're gonna have to compensate for that in part with those measures. That is why the OMT has put on the table the frustration that it feels and which I do sympathize with, in capital letters: if we all stick to those measures, there would be no need for additional, far-reaching measures at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u487	But then it's also a frustration towards the minister, isn't it? Why, then, is the Minister going after those 2G and 3G measures like a blind horse, when the OMT itself says that basic measures are more effective? Therefore, do everything possible to make the most of these basic measures and not all these unnecessary and less effective measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u488	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u489	Of course we do, but the question is whether that is enough. I think that question should be answered fairly with no. Because we exceeded the limit values, we have already taken additional measures. If you want to go to the catering industry in the evening, you can already see that the catering industry is closed. That is a very tough measure for the hospitality industry. We stopped non-essential services from 6:00 p.m. That is a very harsh measure that is really felt there. Nor do we exclude the need for additional measures. That is precisely because compliance is so low and because the degree to which we comply with the measures that already apply to everyone is too low. Only 42% of people stay at home with complaints and are tested. 42%! So we still have work to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u490	Thank you. Then I think you've got something on vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u491	Yeah, vaccination. That's right. First of all, the questions about the booster. Finally the questions about the booster! Back to the Health Council. Just after the summer we asked the Health Council if this is already the time to start the booster. The Health Council then advised us, partly on the basis of RIVM's figures regarding the development of vaccine effectiveness. They said a few things. One. Do we actually see any decreasing immunity? That was not yet visible in the Netherlands at the time. Two. If you don't see any decreasing immunity yet, is it all the time to start the booster? No, the Health Council said for a number of reasons. You have to do it only when you really see that there is a decline in immunity. A vaccine that is placed as the first vaccine anywhere in the world is more effective than a vaccine that is not yet needed as a booster. If it doesn't, it doesn't hurt, so it doesn't go up in boosters, because it's better to use the vaccine elsewhere in the world at the time. This has also been one of the World Health Organisation's calls. So we also give away a lot. We donate a lot of money to other countries. But we also want to be on time for the booster shot in the Netherlands. That was the reason to ask the question again in mid-October. On 2 November this led to an opinion, in which the Health Council said: we are seeing a slightly decreasing immunity at the moment, a few percent, among the oldest elderly. In fact, you can see that decreasing immunity especially in international research and hardly in the Netherlands. But just assume that if we see that a little bit now with the elderly, you're going to see a little bit more in the future. Therefore, there is an advice to start boosters for the elderly. The Health Council said, for the 60-player. Then we said: okay, we're gonna do that anyway, but we actually want to do the care staff in the first group. Because we just have to keep the care staff going. Actually, we also want it for the 60-minner, after the group 60-plus is up. The Health Council has said a number of other things. So you can see that the effectiveness is still very high, which is very special. Two. You shouldn't expect the booster to actually do anything for this wave. The core of what you see now in the hospitals are unvaccinated people or people who do not have enough immune response at all. You're not gonna fix that with a booster. So with an oppprik you could only raise that few percent decrease in immune response a little bit. It is therefore more a measure to be ahead of the next wave than a measure that helps to reduce the number of hospitalisations in this wave. I just wanted to say one thing, but I've lost it for a while. I'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u492	I don't have the picture completely clear anyway. For our summer recess, in the months of June and July, the delta virus came, that mutation, which caused a huge boom in infections, for example in the United Kingdom. At that time both Israel and the United Kingdom started to give boosters, precisely because of that delta variant. The composition of the population is not that different from that in the Netherlands. Can't you translate that one-on-one here? In fact, a spokesperson said that this would be considered in September. Then October came, but then nothing happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u493	It's something else, isn't it? The Dutch situation is not entirely comparable to the Israeli situation, but, by the way, to international studies. They are also involved in the advice of the Health Council. However, the vaccination situation in Israel is different. Although they were very much in the lead, they were also in the early stages of the booster, which of course makes sense, the overall vaccination rate is slightly lower there than in most Western European countries. So that really is a difference with Israel. At the same time, Pfizer has chosen them as a testing ground. That's where they started first. Then, of course, it makes sense that they should be the first to booster there. That's one. Two. For its advice, the Health Council simply relies on vaccine effectiveness studies. The Health Council said you'd put up a booster like that for the same primary reason you started vaccinating with. That wasn't necessarily to prevent infections. Infections are not the reason to launch such a massive vaccination campaign for everyone. But you want to avoid hospitalizations. That means you have to focus the booster on that too. Therefore, the vaccine effectiveness in preventing serious infections has been assessed. Just after the summer, when we had asked for this advice, we saw no effect in the Netherlands on the protection against hospitalization. Then we agreed to prepare ourselves. So all the maps and so on were simply prepared. We asked RIVM to inform us twice a week about the reduction in vaccine effectiveness. That's what RIVM did. A little later in time, namely mid-October, we saw reason to ask that question again to the Health Council, because we thought that there was something of a reduction in vaccine effectiveness in the oldest group. The Health Council said: yes, we see that too, only among the oldest elderly and especially in international research and less in the Netherlands, but start preparing for the booster campaign. On 2 November we received that advice. On November 18th, the first booster shot went in. We've already started with the people with an immune disorder, which means they've actually been immunocompromised. They've got their third shot by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u494	I am aware that it started on November 18th. Then I would like to refer to the Minister's statement that there is a decline in immunity among the oldest age groups, the 80-plussers. But the note on the report says literally: in age groups 60 to 69 years and 70 to 79 years more people are included on the ic compared to the other age groups. How does the Minister explain that? Then you would actually use such a booster rather for the people, like the 60-year-olds, who are still fully employed in society and are more present than the 80- and 90-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u495	The risk is that I am going to push up too many figures: just after the summer, the ratio in the ICU departments was about 90% unvaccinated and 10% vaccinated. That affair has changed a bit. That also makes sense, because with a higher infection pressure there is also a higher tackle rate. This means that the people who have already been vaccinated, those few percent who then have no protection against ic intake, are more likely to come into contact with the virus. This means that the absolute proportion of the number of vaccinated patients increases slightly, but is still clearly in the minority on the ic. So the vaccinated people are still in the minority on the ic: 30% compared to 70% over the last two weeks. There's something else about the hospital admissions. There we see vaccinees and unvaccinated approximately in the fifty-fifty ratio over the past two weeks. That was a completely different affair at first. There is the fact that on average the vaccinated patient is much older than the unvaccinated patient. What does that mean? Well, that the elderly who have been vaccinated and are still in hospital, are often elderly with a lot of other conditions. So they have all kinds of comorbidity, which apparently give rise to such fragility and weakness that when they are confronted with that virus, they sometimes need hospitalization to recover. If you look at vaccine effectiveness in a numerical sense, you can see that in the period July-October, vaccine effectiveness has not decreased: 94% against hospitalisation and 97% against ic intake, on average across all vaccines among all age groups. Over the last eight weeks, the period from 20 September to 14 November, vaccine efficacy was 92% and 96%, respectively. Pretty much the same, but still a few percent lower. If you zoom in on the 70-plussers over the last eight weeks, you will indeed see that the vaccine effectiveness has fallen below 90%. That is why they should be the first to be given that boost, to raise vaccine effectiveness again above 90%, including for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u496	Does the Minister expect to be given a booster shot every year, or every few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u497	If you are asking for my assessment now, but I already said that my lesson is that I should never be too sure, then my answer is: yes, at least for risk groups, as we do with the flu shot, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u498	Without wishing to question the vaccines, I note that I heard the Minister say something that raises some questions for me. He talked about Israel being chosen by Pfizer as a testing ground. That sounds like an experiment. Can the Minister indicate whether certain pharmaceutical companies have also selected the Netherlands as a so-called testing ground? And has he made agreements with such companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u499	No. That doesn't make any sense either. Why is Israel a fine country to do that? Because it is a very clear country and because, on its own, vaccination readiness is high. Furthermore, there is a high willingness to share data. At all events, we are dealing with the GDPR throughout Western Europe. That makes the data sharing a bit more complicated. In addition, however, the European Member States have said that they want to move together, i.e. together with all 27 Member States. We did the buying together. We have done the roll-out of the vaccinations together. Each country had the same number of vaccines per capita at the same time. In short, we have never been able to create a test garden situation for this type of pharmaceutical company. Israel did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u500	I thank the Minister for the explanation. I assume that if the Minister talks about "we," he means the Dutch Government. Can the Minister therefore rule out the fact that such agreements have not been made at European level to choose a particular country or a particular cohort, population or something like that as a testing ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u501	No. Again, it's not very exciting. A new vaccine has been developed. This vaccine is a mRNA vaccine that, although not entirely new, has not been widely used in this pandemic and proved to be extremely effective, but in advance there was not necessarily the conviction that it would be. It is quite logical that if you want to learn as a pharmaceutical what the vaccine does with the transmission inhibition, what it does with the protection against hospitalization and what it does with the protection against infection, you do clinical studies for that. As a follow-up to those clinical studies, you choose a defined country to see what the effect of large-scale vaccination is. I think that's what got us into research. For example, pharmaceutical companies will all have had their own strategy. Where, when it comes to European application, there is always talk that all safety checks have to be complied with before EEA approval, we have used all vaccines only after market authorisation by EEA............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We, as EU-27, have also consciously said that we are not going to cut any corners too short. We want all safety checks-and-balances to be carried out fully, at most faster, because there was a rolling review. That's what happened. The study results from the first, second and third clinical studies have already been looked at by EEA. In addition, testing was carried out in increasingly large groups. These tests have indeed taken place on European soil, but always below the very strict safety requirements that apply to all medicines and vaccines. Then a question was whether the flu shot could not be combined with the booster shot, given the possible side effects. That's a very fair question. The answer to this is, because we do not know exactly, as a precaution, the advice to ensure that two weeks is available at the front or at the back and not to combine the flu shot with the booster vaccination. It's true that that's why some elderly people don't schedule a booster shot for another couple of weeks. Are we sure that a combination will lead to additional side effects? No, we're not sure. Are we sure that's not true? No, we don't. That is why this advice is given as a precaution. This is what you also mentioned, namely that flu vaccination is often given in combination with pneumococcal vaccination. That's possible, but three vaccines on the same day would be a little too much of the good. It has not been said that it cannot necessarily be done, but there is still no study to prove that it can be done safely. That is the reason for this precautionary advice from the GGD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u502	Can the Minister ensure that this is clearly communicated? There is a lot of fear in the elderly, precisely because not all general practitioners give the advice of at least two weeks apart to the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u503	Yeah, I can take care of that. The letter already states it, and if the elderly call the GGD's call centre on the basis of the letter to make an appointment, they will also hear this during the intake. If they come to the site to get their boosters, they'll hear it again. So there is a lot of communication about it: one-on-one, but also in the mass media campaign. I imagine you sometimes miss that information, but at least one-on-one it happens a number of times. Then there's the question about the side effects. I'm very glad you asked that question. What I have seen is that your question and my answer to that question are now quite shared in disinformation circles. Let me return to what I said about this in the direction of Mr Van der Voort, but also in the direction of Mrs De Boer: you simply have to counter disinformation by contradicting it. This is one of the movies used. I think I remember you asking me at the time: "What if you, as an older person, get an invitation twice, for example, through your GP and once through RIVM, or once because you live in an institution and once because your age group is next? What's that? Suppose you just walk back into the G.D.D. and let yourself be pricked again. Can't you do that? Can't you find yourself in a situation where you get too many shots?" Then I said, "Well, I don't think so. Of course, people don't do that, because why would you necessarily take more shots than you actually need?" By the way, we know that this is what I mentioned at the time, that the second shot is a little bit more side effects than the first shot. A lot of people will recognize that when they've had two shots of Pfizer or Moderna. The degree of headache, chilliness, pain on the puncture site and muscle pain at the second prick was just a little more than with the first prick. That's what I said to you at the time. This is now used to discourage boosters, because "you get a lot of side effects from it." So I corrected that. It was about the second shot, which has a little more side effects than the first one; we just know that. The Health Board says: with the booster shot it is a similar type of side effects as with the second injection. We know that. That booster shot should be given at least six months after the second shot. That's what we know about it. That's what the Health Council says about it based on the latest available studies. Then I think I have actually answered Mrs De Boer's question to Mr Karakus: what are we all doing to further increase the vaccination rate at all? We are now through the 88% with the first shot. So it's still going the right way. It's still moving in the right direction. But I really want to get over 90%. We just need maximum protection. Of the 1.5 million people who currently have insufficient protection, most of whom have not had a vaccine or have not been infected, if they do not vaccinate against the virus, they are going to run against the virus and then they will gain immunity by doing so, and I hope that most of them will still let themselves be convinced and still opt for that vaccine. The damage to health is, in fact, substantially less. What we are doing about this is a very well-designed target group strategy. All the target groups that we know are included in the lists with a lower vaccination rate, we reach with a separate target group campaign. That's the "who": we pretty much know who the people who haven't been vaccinated are. Then the "why." Why haven't people been vaccinated? What's the reason? Here too, we intervene on a tailor-made basis. Where a language barrier is a problem, a very different type of intervention is needed than where conscientious objection raises doubts. In the Afrikaanderwijk, around the corner, for example, it is very useful to prick into the mosque and start working with a prick bus and with general practitioners on the market. In the Biblebelt, it really doesn't work that way. That's where you shouldn't stand with horns and bells in the square. There you just have to give the general practitioner the opportunity to prick yourself. That works much better there. For example, we try to do justice in all possible ways to the differences in the group of people who have not been vaccinated. It's not all people who are necessarily opposed. My assumption is that at least 5%, 6% to 7% of those who are not reached in the National vaccination programme will not be reached this time either, and that the rest of the 11% to 12% could still be achieved, but there is considerable doubt there. That doubt has been horribly blown up by everything and everyone who's been spreading disinformation lately. We're gonna have to step up against that headwind. That means: door by door and arm for arm individually have the conversation and make sure that you know how to take away doubts. That's a very tough job, but it's a very nice job to do. A great deal of work is being done by GPs and GGDs, tailor-made, in the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u504	I particularly thank the Minister for the last sentence, because for that I thought: yes, that it is different everywhere and that it is different strategies, I understand, but what is happening? I hear him say door to door and house to house. So far, I've understood. I'd like to hear it if that's different. That's a lot of local initiatives from GPs and health care workers themselves, and from GGDs who don't have anything to prick, so to speak. Actually, I'd like to know what strategy is behind it from the Ministry. How is that controlled? How is that coordinated? Or is it indeed: everyone does local where space is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u505	But it's not just from the bottom and a thousand flowers, it's also in common the strategy between VWS, GGD and RIVM. The RIVM in the analysis: who are they and where do they live? RIVM and GGD together in the investigation which is actually the reason for that doubt. What created that doubt and how can that doubt be removed again? What could work there? Those are just the lessons you learn from all kinds of projects. Within the GGD's, these projects are implemented in the different target groups, in the different neighbourhoods analysed and provided by RIVM. Then not everyone has to invent the wheel for themselves. That is precisely what happens in common. In very close cooperation between the 25 GGDs one can learn from each other's projects, look at each other over the hedge and take the lessons that can be learned from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u506	Two short questions. The first one is: How's it going? Can you tell me how many doors we've already had and how much we have left to go? I can also imagine that in the areas where it is most necessary to do so, the general practitioners and health care workers are all the most heavily burdened...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u507	That's absolutely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u508	... which also makes it the least capacity to do it. Maybe some more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u509	Capacity is absolutely an important issue, especially because we want to start the booster as soon as possible and also to start at full volume as soon as possible. Of course, this is somewhat in competition with the personal commitment of the GGD, who is also trying to make themselves bigger and scale up as quickly as possible. During fine-meshed vaccination in the neighborhoods also very often help the general practitioners, but I'm not going to oblige any general practitioner either. It must also fit a general practitioner and general practitioners are already terribly burdened. By the way, they find this very nice to do and very useful too, so we make very grateful use of general practitioners. It's the G.D.D.'s that coordinate it in the neighborhoods. And how's it working out? Well, actually pretty good, but it does crawl up by tithes a week. So you have to assume about four tenths a week of new first shots. That's actually what we've been seeing in the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u510	Finally. You answered the question as to whether the vaccination rate is working, but are you able to reach people? How many of the doors have we had and how many more doors do we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u511	Here's the thing. I believe that, on top of everything we do, there should be a further form of thoroughness and low-threshold in the areas where the greatest task lies. That is why we have looked with RIVM and with the GGD's where the 30 municipalities still have to deal with the largest group and in which neighborhoods that is. Then you must remember the three great cities and the Bible belt. That's the area. We've identified 30 municipalities there. With the GGDs of those 30 municipalities and with those municipalities themselves, we will see if we can step up this approach even further. This includes not only vaccinating low-threshold, pokebuses, mobile locations in the neighborhood, pop-up locations in the neighborhood................................................................................................................................................................ How can we bring the theme corona, the theme "keep you safe this winter" even closer to the people in those neighbourhoods where the need is greatest? We have selected these areas on the basis of the vaccination rate, but also on the basis of the level of infection and on the basis of the majority of hospitalisations per million inhabitants. That's how we selected those municipalities and those neighborhoods. That is the approach we are working on right now, to actually do what Mrs De Boer is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u512	In my contribution I also gave the story from Limburg. I made some calls, too. When you call around with general practitioners, with GGD's, with the municipalities, you first encounter a lot of involved people. Secondly, you are not always convinced that of those thousand flowers a few bloom very nicely and that those municipal services are already very well connected to the GGD. You indicate that you are investigating that with those 30 municipalities. I wonder if we have any wonderful ideas there that work well. Or haven't we? Are you okay? Isn't it going well? Can you say something about that? Should we do that more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u513	There really is a huge laundry list of wonderful initiatives. Actually, there is something in every GGD region that is so beautiful and so unique that you would hope that every GGD would do it. The point is, of course, you don't get that manned. In my own city, take the pop-up location in the Meuse City Hospital, for example, where people visit, people go to the police. They are often people with weaker health, especially the people who go to the police. They'll be addressed immediately. Have you been vaccinated yet? If not, sit down, then we can get right... Oh, you weren't sure? Then what did you doubt, et cetera? That has put quite a few stings on Rotterdam-Zuid, exactly in the area where vaccination rates are lowest. The prick initiatives in the mosques, there are really a lot of them. In the church in Amersfoort, a wonderful initiative. So yes, I can list an endless laundry list to beautiful initiatives. I would almost say that in the next progress letter I am going to pay a great deal of attention to what we are all doing, because it is really a lot. The best thing, these are the initiatives in which people have come up with an idea themselves, that have worked out and brought it together with the GGD, an idea of which other GGDs think: oh, that's nice, that's what I want. Actually, that's the best part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u514	I would just like to ask the Minister to really do that. I see in South Limburg that they are looking for even better ideas. I think that's what they're looking for everywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u515	We were talking about the booster and the new report from the Health Council. We took that for a while. Indeed, it shows that the chances of getting into a hospital with the elderly are getting a little bigger. But what about the chance of catching the disease? We keep talking about the 90%, 91%, and so on. You said yourself: if you have been vaccinated, you still have 25% chance of getting the virus and then 50% that you can transfer it. But is it true for the elderly that the odds are more than 25%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u516	I think you should assume that. Let's go back first. Why are we so committed to vaccine effectiveness in terms of hospitalisation when deciding whether or not to booster and who to booster? Because that's the primary reason you want to vaccinate. Serious infections and hospitalizations, which you want to avoid. Infections completely occur, vaccines don't usually do. There is also usually no sterile immunity. It is not the case that vaccines prevent any transmission at all. We can see, of course, that the other parameters, namely infection and transmission, are also subject to decreasing protection. Of course it is, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u517	How much was my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u518	Yeah, that varies from one research to another, so I can't give a clear answer to that. I can give you a very long evening answer to that, but I don't think you want to hear that right now. What we know about this is that different studies also offer different projections on this, because it also changes at the stage of the epidemic, in how long ago those vaccines were put in place. Many different studies have been carried out, which also give a bit of different results. The most important thing is to reduce vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation. This is only to a small extent the case, especially among the 70-plussers. Protection also decreases on other parameters related to vaccine effectiveness. How much, to what extent and to whom exactly, that is very situationally determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u519	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u520	I understand the Minister. In policy, you look at hospitalizations, but I'm interested in the following. If those vaccines... If months go by, the effectiveness goes by. Is the 25% you are talking about still real? Or should you think of 30%, 40%, and so on? That's my question. Second. If I've seen it correctly, that 25% will be taken over a certain period of time. I would like to know, for example, what has happened in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u521	We can very well monitor the vaccine effectiveness of hospitalisations. Every two weeks we get the development in the last eight weeks. The research group must be large enough to be able to make really good, statistically responsible statements. This means that RIVM once again over the last eight weeks shows vaccine effectiveness in relation to hospitalisations. All these other parameters measure something different in terms of effectiveness under a slightly different target group in a slightly different context. That makes it not so easy to give a clear picture of that. The RIVM calculates with the latest numbers, more across the board, from 75% protection against infection and about 50% to 63% protection against transmission. This may give a different outcome, given the situation, the vaccine, the group where it was put, the context factors involved. In a Sanquin antibody measurement study, a stronger decrease will be measured. But then the microbiologist with whom you are trying to have that debate will say that it is not just about antibodies. That's just one measure to measure the degree of immunity. The cellular immunity is not measured that way, for that you will really have to do a completely different type of research. There is a wide-ranging debate to be held on this subject, and that must also be the subject of a wide-ranging debate. Please let that be done by the experts. We must rely on and act on vaccine effectiveness, on the most important parameter, and that is serious infection and hospitalisation. That is the trigger to start the booster campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u522	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u523	Even if you look at it that way, time will change. Where can I see that change? You say there was 25% three months ago, but why is it still there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u524	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u525	There is a change, over time, that's right. This is without prejudice to the fact that you have to make the decision about the booster that you make available to everyone. It will also add some extra protection on the other parameters. Exactly how much has been determined situationally. The most important aspect of the policy relevance of the booster is, in particular, to boost protection against hospitalisation. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u526	The Minister also recognizes that the effectiveness of vaccines has deteriorated considerably over time. At the same time, he does use those vaccinations, knowing that they will deteriorate over time, as the measure of how to use those corona tickets. It is seen as a kind of Lourdeswater, when it comes to the security of corona tickets. How does that relate to that supposed effectiveness of those corona tickets and with that to 3G and especially 2G, if that's such a great safety valve in his system? Well, then that safety valve's pretty leaky.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u527	The corona tickets have been declared out of order by the Chamber, but besides that you can of course answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u528	Let us have this political debate at the moment when we are also discussing legislation here. In order to prepare for this, I would like to draw your attention to the modelling study carried out by RIVM. It's been discussed at the OMT. That modeling study was sent to the Chamber yesterday. It actually answers all these questions, including what effectiveness you can expect and what expected modelling underpins the proportionality and effectiveness of the use of corona access cards. It takes into account all these aspects: the reliability and sensitivity of tests, the effectiveness of vaccines, the level of protection built up by the people who have been vaccinated. On that basis, we arrive at the calculations that are contained in that piece. Let us have that debate when the law is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u529	By "the Chamber," you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u530	Second Chamber first. That may be a very surprising order, but first let's do the Lower House and then the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u531	Oh. You were talking about "the Chamber," so I'm gonna ask for an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u532	Both rooms. We hope that the legislation will be dealt with in the Chambers in the very near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u533	For the record, the current law already applies corona admissions, so it is not only the new ones but also the current ones that are being extended by the extension law. I have a second point. I also heard the Minister say in his reply that the general practitioners love to put those vaccinations in place. But I've been talking to GPs for the past year and then there was a slightly different picture, of a lot of frustration and annoyance that a lot of things didn't go well with that vaccination campaign, that they had to throw away vaccines, that the deliveries weren't known in time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u534	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u535	There's been a lot of frustration with the general practitioners in recent years. How does that frustration relate to the Minister's story that the general practitioners just love to put those stings?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u536	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u537	We have a few thousand general practitioners; they are not all the same. Indeed, the mass vaccination campaign among 60-64-year-olds has given them little joy. Because of the scarcity of vaccines, a bit of vaccines were supplied each time. It is not easy for general practitioners to get that included in addition to an ongoing practice. If we were to evaluate it, I think we would rather not do it that way again. I think a lot of doctors will say that to you. If you really want to get excited about general practitioners, the beautiful city of Rotterdam and also about the wonderful vaccination work that general practitioners do, go into the neighbourhood with a general practitioner Sana from Delfshaven. Then you must really leave all your cynicism at home. The enthusiasm and persuasiveness he shows to vaccinate his people is truly amazing and to fall in love with. I highly recommend that you do. For example, there are a thousand general practitioners in whom you can see such an enthusiastic and positive story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u538	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u539	That that exciting story is present with many general practitioners, I believe all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u540	It'd make you feel better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u541	I am concerned that the simple statement made by the Minister earlier, namely that general practitioners love to put those stings on, is still stark against the administrative burden and the hassle of such a vaccination campaign...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u542	What's your question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u543	Is the Minister aware of this and does he take it into account in his policy that such a vaccination campaign should involve a lot of general practitioners in addition to their regular work? Is the Minister sufficiently aware of this and is he sufficiently aware of it? I think that is a point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u544	Sure. We talk to doctors a lot. I have already said that the way in which it has happened is not necessarily repeatable, but to a large extent also resulted from the scarcity that we have had to contend with in the supply of vaccines. You actually want to rent a sports hall on one weekend and get your whole practice through it. If you can't because you're getting a little delivered every time, you're gonna have to do several Saturdays. Of course, that's annoying for general practitioners with a practice. We're really in a different phase right now. We are now in the phase of one-on-one convincing vulnerable 50-plussers that you would like to keep out of the hospital. GPs are just great at that. They do that with a lot of enthusiasm. That's great to see. I'm just madly excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u545	Minister, are we at the end of the chapter on vaccinations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u546	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u547	Then we'll get to the motions, if I understand correctly. Or would you perhaps like to appreciate it in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u548	It is rather surprising that all kinds of motions are being tabled in the first term, especially when they are about legislation that still has to be dealt with in the Lower House. That's new; not necessarily wrong, but new. We're just gonna go through the motions one by one. I'll try to advise them. I just need to see if I've got the right order to do that. Is it true that I should start with letter F?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u549	Yes, that's right, from Mr Van Hattem. But in the meantime, Mrs Baay has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u550	I had asked another question about what the Minister thinks about the fact that the CTB has not yet been set up for visitors, I stress, for health care institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u551	This is part of the legislation that we will be discussing here in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u552	We just decided we're not doing that today. You also supported that proposal, if I recall correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u553	In the bill on corona admissions in the work situation, one element is also about visitors in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u554	Then I will go to Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u555	I had asked another question about the impact of the scepticism on the vaccination programme concerning corona on the National vaccination programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u556	It's hard to say. I'll try to borrow it the other way around. You know that the National Vaccination Programme, depending on the exact vaccine, achieves a coverage rate of 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%. I'm assuming you won't reach 5%, 6%, 7% with the corona vaccination. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We hebben nog 11% en een beetje te gaan.]] So I assume that we will not achieve more than half of that in the end, and that we will have to work very hard for that other percentage, because we will have to fight the headwind. It is not right to say what this means for the National Vaccination Programme. There are also different images about it. Some people say: because this debate on vaccines is taking place in such intensity, it may well have a negative backlash on the National Vaccination Programme. Others say, no, it's not. Many vaccines are of course put for children and in fact vaccination of children by their parents is still very uncontested. So it's really got to prove itself in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u557	Finally, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u558	That's right. I would nevertheless like to call on the Minister to be very vigilant and to act directly on it if it turns out that there is indeed an effect on the left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u559	Sure, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u560	I'm still missing a few answers to my questions. I repeat them and then the Minister can decide whether to answer them or in the second term. I have made a comment about the long term, the preparation of society. I also asked how you can ensure the professionalism and independence of the OMT and the GGD. I also asked a question about the entrepreneurs and organisations that are struggling. I stand up for them because it is important to support the heavy measures. How are they relieved in terms of costs and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u561	Mr. Karakus, will you keep the interruption brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u562	The last question concerns the commitment to respond to the growing polarisation and the role of the government in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u563	Yes. From the will to make some progress, I have taken a few turns too short. So apologize for that. Now that you mention the OMT, I realise that I did not answer Mr Janssen's questions either. As far as the long term is concerned, that is what it is all about, the preparation of society that we have to live with that virus for a long time. So part of the strategies, in response to the different scenarios, will also have to be what this means for the way we can take society into account. I fully agree with you on that. With regard to the OMT, the following. That independent position is guaranteed and must also be guaranteed. Sometimes it may be, I say in the direction of Mr Janssen, that you are different from an OMT opinion, but we must do so in all transparency. So if we deviate from an OMT recommendation, we'll say the same thing. Did we do that in the middle of September? No, in mid-September, we took over the preferred scenario from the OMT. Did we do that all the way to the beginning of the school year? Yes, we said that at the time, also at the press conference, that where the OMT would rather not open the schools until a little later, we did it earlier because of the importance of the schools. That was a choice, a trade-off. I think that we do not regret this balance, however much we see that the number of infections in schools is not insignificant at the moment. Does the OMT have the room to say of a choice of cabinet: I think that is an unwise choice? Absolutely. Do we want or can we hinder them in that? No. Is it wise for the various individual members of the OMT to give independent views to talk show tables other than the contents of the OMT opinion? Maybe it's not wise, but I'm not gonna do anything about it either, because I think everyone should be free to say what they think. They are all highly skilled professionals because otherwise they would never have been a member of the OMT, with all their own views on the case and their own input. So they are just free to express their own views on this. Does the cabinet take off the OMT advice if: yes but, it's just an advice? I don't believe that. I believe that we are very respectful of the OMT recommendations and we are always very heavy on making OMT recommendations weigh. Of course, it's not the only advice we get. In addition to the OMT opinions, which are more about the epidemiological situation and how you fight the virus best, we also have other advice, social and economic, from the different planning agencies that we naturally have to deal with. But especially the measures that help keep the virus under control, we hope to hear from the OMT. These measures are designed in such a way that they do not unintentionally a great deal of harm in society, and we also involve the other advisers. So we come together to a weighting. It is up to the Chamber to decide whether we are making the right weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u564	I just wanted to say that the Minister goes by my question on a number of points, as I did not mean to, but that will undoubtedly have been my question. I will clarify my question in the second period so that the answer can be a little more precise, in line with how I asked it and intended it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u565	I do not rule out that it could even be my answer. You shouldn't completely rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u566	The courtesy is dripping off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u567	That's how it's gonna be. I do not quite understand Mr Karakus' question about costs. If I may understand him as follows, the answer is yes anyway. Is the Cabinet prepared to bear the costs necessary to compensate these sectors for the measures that damage those different sectors? We will have to make it to the end of the crisis together, and we will also have to do it together this winter. Where we have to take measures, we are very aware that they must be accompanied by support, including financial, which we have to offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u568	That's the point. My question was more about supporting it. In particular, the catering industry and the event industry are suffering a great deal, as are the cultural sector. We have put heavy measures in place and the support packages have been quickly phased out. The question is how quickly the weather is being built to relieve the burden on entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u569	That is a matter of measure, in which you want to breathe along with the intensity of the package of measures. Now that we have taken serious measures for the catering industry again in the evening hours, we have also adapted the support packages. I know that this has not yet led to the same satisfaction on all points, and that is why we have not yet spoken out with the sectors concerned. If you were to come up with additional measures, this would mean additional aid. That's inevitable. It's part of each other. It is the discussion to what extent you can actually be customised, but that is more of a discussion with the troika, as economic colleagues call themselves. You can always do a lot less customization than you'd like. To what extent do you find deadweight loss in these schemes also justified? If you have to spend 100% of the sector billions to support 10% of the sector, then in the long run there will be a limit to what you think is responsible towards the taxpayer. That is a discussion that should take place with our economic colleagues. If you really have to take the step towards more lockdown-like measures, is there the willingness to provide the appropriate support? The answer to that is yes. Then there are questions about polarization. College Grapperhaus has already said something about that. I had linked it myself to the corona tickets, because I thought there was also the link in the question. Maybe I've gone too short myself. I often get the question whether the measures you take, whether you like them or not, do not also contribute to the division of society. Of course, it can be. That's true. But the follow-up question is: is this reason not to take the necessary measures? That can't be the case. We have the task of protecting vulnerable people and protecting them from overload. It is an additional task, I think, for the politicians to take proportionate measures and to keep in mind that a large proportion of people suffer from the virus, but that an even greater part is now suffering from the measures taken against the virus. That means that we need to be very aware of everything you do with measures. We are seeing a decline in solidarity and the whole crisis is a great test of our solidarity. During the first wave, we passed that test brilliantly. Each subsequent wave reduces the extent to which we pass that test of solidarity. Lately, we've really been going over the ditch in heels. That is without prejudice to the fact that I also want to rely on it and continue to believe that if the need is really up to date, we can really stand shoulder to shoulder again. This means that we must be careful in the roughness of the measures we are taking. That does mean that we must also be aware that after 20 months of crisis, not everyone is equally enthusiastic about the measures we are taking and that not everyone can always experience it as well. This puts extra pressure on politics to decide on measures in good balance. But it can never mean, you don't mean that you're taking measures to make peace but no more. 'Cause what you're buying is something you're gonna regret a lot later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u570	May I ask for a brief interruption? If necessary, you can discuss it further in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u571	Sure. Of course you have to take action, but I am also concerned about the question: what could be the role of the government in this? You can also choose to say "we're going to explain the effects better" or "we're going to try to bring these groups together better; we're going to set something up for that." So you can say more than just: we have measures. Of course you must have measures. This may cause polarisation, but the question was more: what can the government do about it, to keep these groups together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u572	At least I'm willing to do anything you recommend, except to do more on talk shows. I'd rather not if I didn't have to, also because it takes so much time. I don't mind talking shows, but it takes so much time. There is no doubt that there is still room to improve communication. There is no doubt that there is still room to improve the explanation of why measures are being taken, that people can actually experience them. I hope that you will not impose on me an obligation to deliver on the enthusiasm for the measures we have to take, because we must also be prepared to take measures if people are not enthusiastic about them. I saw an investigation into the last press conference. It wasn't the ratings; a lot of people followed the press conference. I believe that the content of the press conference's communication among the population as a whole had a range of about 75%. The appreciation of the fact that measures had been taken was also very high, but what measures had to be taken was fairly divided. With that division we have to do it for a while. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is an assignment for us to highlight the need for it as well as possible, but I do not know whether we can get everyone excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u573	This debate is going to last until after midnight, I'm sure you will, Mr. Karakus. So if you can do it in your second term, I'd like to say "please," but I'll give you the floor, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u574	Thank you. My final point. Is the Minister prepared to put together what is being done, what can be done, for once in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u575	In terms of communication, you mean? Oh, yeah. Absolutely, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u576	Thank you for your commitment. Are you at the end of your speech with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u577	There are still motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u578	However, I would suggest that we welcome the motions in your second term as usual. Then you can also appreciate them in conjunction with any other motions to submit, as a whole. Mr Raven has one final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u579	I don't know if it's the last one, but at least I have an interruption, as a result of the input I made this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u580	I mean in this term, not your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u581	Thank you. You have dealt with the theme of "seeing the future." You have also dealt with the subject of vaccination, but there is one issue that I raised very strongly this morning, which, in my opinion, has not been given enough attention to date, but also, in the opinion of the OSF. That's the structural component of ventilation. I didn't hear about that. I think it's very important to do something about that. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u582	Absolutely. It is quite right that you should draw attention to this. It's not the first time. There is also a lot of attention for this in the Lower House. As a cabinet, we have made a real contribution to this; in the beginning there was much less attention to that. But in the meantime it is; in the public communication as a whole, and in sport, so also from the government, and in the press conferences there is more attention to it. That necessity is simply there; absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u583	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u584	I have the honor of chairing an elderly association with its own building. What I think is very important is that those people, who have almost all been vaccinated and therefore protected, will continue to use these activities in the future. So a lot of trust has been lost in recent times. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u585	And your question is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u586	My question is then: if we go shopping to see if we can get support for ventilation in buildings like this, I can't find anything about it. Can you help us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u587	Finally, Minister. Where are the fans for sale?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u588	That depends on what type of support you want for this building. But when it comes to advice and hand-outs for what you could do and how you could use a CO2 meter, you can certainly find all kinds of information about it. In the second term I will mention for you the website on which all this information can be found. Shall we? If you want to apply for a grant, I think you should be with the municipality and not with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u589	I understand the remark that the motion will not be dealt with until the Minister's second term. Nevertheless, in my speech in the first term, I put a number of questions to the Minister, some of which relate to the motion. So I also asked for it in the debate. I would ask the Minister to deal with these points in this period, so that I can also take them into account in my second term. This is, among other things, the issue of European corona tickets and the European Commission's intention to make them permanent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u590	I believe that the Commission has expressed the expectation that for the time being we will make use of the DCC, the digital covid certificate, to make travel as safe as possible. That's an expectation I do share. Is there legislation or something in preparation at the moment, which stipulates that we will be using the DCC for years to come? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u591	I also asked the Minister to do this. The European Commission is apparently preparing the proposal. It is also said that not only the two vaccines currently in force, but possibly also the boosters will become mandatory. Should the European Commission come forward with this proposal, will the Minister vote against such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u592	That's what I've done repeatedly. I have also indicated in the direction of your Chamber that I would do this, because I do not think that we should unnecessarily restrict freedom of movement. This means that, of course, you could say at some point: the protection is now reduced so that you have to add that booster. But I think that we should determine that moment together. My reaction towards Austria, France and other Member States that are considering this was: do not do this, because it may further restrict freedom of movement. Nor is it in line with Council Recommendation 1475. That means that I would actually think that you should proceed with this together when everyone has been given the opportunity to use that booster and it is really necessary. Whether this third shot is actually part of the primary protection is, of course, something that you will have to decide together, for example because EMA takes that view. So no direct action from the Member States, that is my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u593	Thank you, Minister. That puts you at the end of your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u594	Again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u595	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u596	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u597	Then we come to the end of the first term of the government. Then I'll suspend for a few minutes on request. Then we shall begin the second term of the Chamber. An hour's speaking time is reserved for this, excluding any interruptions. And then we get the second term from both ministers. Mrs Baay has one more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u598	I had asked a number of questions to the Minister of Justice and Security about blocking the CTB. He forgot to answer these questions. They were very specific questions. I would be happy if he could reply in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u599	He can at least come back to it in his second term. Then you can always look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u600	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u601	Thank you. I shall now suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u602	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman on behalf of 50PLUS, but first Mr Nicolaï has an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u603	We have had a lot of interruptions and the Minister has answered a lot of questions. I would suggest that we see if we can do this without interruptions. I think that all the questions that have been asked have been answered, or there has been no answer, and that is not going to happen anymore. You can keep asking, but I think we need to be a little time-efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u604	Let's see if we can do that. Let us not debate it now, because it only prolongs it. Your appeal to colleagues is clear. It's up to the colleagues to decide if they're gonna work on it. Is that enough, Mr. Nicolaï? Then I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to my colleagues who put me first. I've been a little cold and flu all day. It's definitely not corona contamination; I did a test on lunch break. But I'd like to go home by now. Thank you also to the rulers for the answer. I note, however, that the Minister for Justice and Security has not yet answered my group's questions on the blocking of the CTB. He has promised me that he may do so in writing. As my group pointed out at first reading, holding a debate on an extension of the Twm, which will end on the day after the vote, is not very inspiring, because whether you vote for or against, the extension will pass. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the third extension for the time being, but that does not guarantee the fourth extension and other proposed measures already announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u606	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've had a long debate. The Ministers have responded long and comprehensively. I think it is an unsatisfactory debate, because I feel that the answers do not correspond to the concerns expressed by this Chamber. The ministers have explained and explained a great deal and explained a little more. But this Chamber was concerned not only about the corona epidemic, but above all about the polarisation in society and its lack of recognition by the Cabinet and the lack of action by the Cabinet. The answer also showed that. At the end of the debate, Mr Karakus had to ask about polarisation and it was said again that the measures that were being taken could trigger reactions. I don't think that's the point. It is not so much about the measures themselves and whether they raise resistance or not. It's about whether you see that polarization is there in society, or you see that it's worrying that that polarization is there and what you can do about it, given the fact that you have to take action. So it is not so much about the measure as it is, because it should focus on limiting the contamination and limiting the seizure of care capacity, but on what to do about polarisation. I have missed that, while I believe that half the speaking time in the first term of the Chamber was devoted to that. I'm sorry to hear that. I don't have the illusion that we're gonna fix this in second term, but I just wanted to have it appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u608	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do have some points to quote. First of all, I have asked a number of questions that have not yet been answered in the first period. I have asked, for example, whether we in the Chamber can get the figures on underlying suffering in hospitalisations and deaths, so that we can also have clarity and insight in that regard. Furthermore, I understood that there was a technical briefing in the Lower House today. That included Mr Gommers, who is also OMT member. He said he hasn't been in touch with Minister De Jonge for a long time. I understood that from a reporter. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is true and what is causing it. Why isn't he in touch with this OMT member anymore? Does that perhaps have to do with the questions I asked in the first term about the point that Mr Gommers might have made a little critical about the Minister? In fact, I have not yet had a clear response from the Minister. How are we supposed to take the criticism that the Minister often hides behind OMT opinions, when that is not really the issue at all? In addition, I have just been in contact with a general practitioner who is active in the LHV. In spite of what the Minister has just said about the enthusiasm of the general practitioners for putting corona vaccines, this general practitioner made it very clear that they are absolutely not enthusiastic about this. A lot of GPs from the LHV constituency for the viewers at home I say that the National Family Doctors Association is absolutely no longer waiting for the setting of corona vaccinations. Has the Minister been properly informed by an important organization such as the National Family Doctors Association? Then I come to another point. In De Telegraaf yesterday there was an interview with Armand Girbes, head of the ic department of the VU Medical Center. He says there, and I quote: "You have to see the numbers in the right proportions. In a population of 17 million, 430 people with COVID-19 are in intensive care. We're very quickly dislocated by small numbers. This is due to the fact that we have such a low capacity to take care of these patients." Furthermore, the newspaper also states that the ic-doctor foresees that covid will be a manageable problem in the short term. How are we supposed to see these statements in yesterday's newspaper on the measures proposed by the Minister? These are really firm measures in terms of compulsion and drive towards society, including the 2G measures and the 3G measures, which are used in the workplace and so on. Meanwhile, the above is clearly seen by someone from the field who has to deal with it daily. So why does the Minister come up with all these coercive measures? Why limit the pressure on the population in their choice of whether or not to put that vaccine on? Mr Girbes' main appeal is, in fact, to make sure that capacity is in order. Can the Minister finally state when he will begin the scaling-up? It is said all the time in this debate, also by several speakers: we have spent so much on the health budget. But apparently the money wasn't spent effectively. So when is the money finally being released in the public health budget to scale up ic capacity and nursing care and at least to ensure that we do not become black because this minister has failed to put this in order? Then I come to my next point. That is the Minister's response to the European corona certificate. I must say that that seemed very real at first: no, I have always said that we are not going to do so et cetera et cetera et cetera. But then there was another whole story. Then the Minister says: at some point we can get into the situation that the booster has to. "Must," so the booster becomes mandatory. The Minister says: if everyone has had the opportunity to be vaccinated and also to get the booster and if it is necessary, then it is a joint decision. In particular, I find that 'decision in common' a huge risk. This means that the Minister will look at the European partners and will allow the EU to take the decision to impose such a European, permanent corona certificate on our people. Surely we cannot allow the European Commission, the crowned robber sitting there in Brussels, to impose this on us and on our people? A permanent corona certificate, which forces us to take part in these vaccinations. What's the Minister's position on that? How is he going to behave in this, even if there is supposed to be a need? Is he still prepared to say 'no' to that crowned robber in Brussels? I shall now come to another point. That is actually a point that was also raised in the debate in the first period. I am concerned, however, that if we make an argument here, every word must be weighed on a gold dish. As soon as there is a discussion, the tone of the debate and courtesy are very soon set and the content is easily ignored. We are now seeing again, standing in the debate, when it was agreed that there would be a wide-ranging discussion, that there should actually be no more talk about the corona ticket. 2G must not be discussed again. We are going to have a whole series of forbidden words in this Chamber, waiting for the President's day's vote, whether or not a particular word is allowed. As an example, I mention the incident in the first term around the word 'tribunal', which is simply a very normal word. That stands for "court." For example, you have a medical tribunal, you have sports tribunals and you name it. In Parliamentary Acts, as I have checked, the word 2,403 is mentioned. So I would like to ask the President and also appeal to him that we do not get the situation in every debate that we are talking about on a gold-plate. And this is not just a word, but also a number of concepts, which always call on the courtesy and the tone of the debate. That ignores the content. If, in such matters, the President lets the form go beyond the substance, then I would like to ask openly whether he is fit for this position. That is a point I want to make here, because it restricts me in my functioning here when I have to weigh every word over and over again and cannot have a normal debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u610	Mr. Chairman. I thought it was an excellent proposal from Mr Nicolaï. I'll make one exception, because he's addressing you now. I have not at any time had the impression, Mr Van Hattem, that you felt limited in the debate. I don't think you did. I didn't count it. I didn't interrupt it about 60 times. We are talking about proportional legislation. Is your own performance proportional?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u611	My actions are very proportional, given the terrible measures imposed on our people. We simply need to be very clear about this in this debate. But the point is that once again a colleague, a colleague, claims that I would make a disproportionate contribution to the debate. I think that's a bit of a problem here. Instead of talking about the content, we always come to that form. I really do not want to become personal towards the President, but I do note that this is becoming a pattern. As a result, I get the feeling that it is not about the number of interruptions, but that we always have to find a way to get around them. For example, if I am not allowed to talk about 2G, then I have to talk about the use of corona tickets. And when I talk about that, I get whistled back, too. We are actually sitting here with a competition that is currently being played hard in society. Then here, in the house of democracy, in the house of free speech, we must also really release the word. Then we should not be walking on our toes in order to have the debate. That's the point I want to put down here. I hope you will understand that too, because this is the arena where we need to be able to have this kind of discussion. If that can no longer be done in openness and if everything has to be covered under a cuddly layer of courtesy, then we have a bigger problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u612	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem and I have had a lot of debates in this Chamber. I see a certain agility with Mr Van Hattem because he is being contradicted. But I still think that the point I just made isn't just about courtesy. That's also about how much space you take in a debate. You say there's a tough fight in society. But that is precisely one of the points of the debate. Mrs De Boer also made that point: polarization. It's not up to us to strengthen that polarization. It is precisely up to us to find solutions in good consultation and to discuss with the government how we can move forward with this. That's what my intervention is about. I'm not even talking about what you can or can't say. But the space you are taking, and the way you are doing it, may well be said of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u613	First of all, I am pleased that Mr Backer wants to start the debate; congratulations for that. But we must not look away from the polarisation that exists in society on this subject. The cabinet itself takes a polarising tone towards society: a lot is said and forced on it. That's what you need to be able to talk about in this house. We need to be able to have a debate on this, and then we need not have to run the whole time in order not to use certain words or to impose a certain courtesy in a slightly improper way that is going to prevail. I'm not complaining that I'm not getting much room here, on the contrary. But it is a bit in the tone and the way it is. That is what I just heard in Mr Backer's contribution. That way we should be able to just put it here. We must be able to express our concerns in clear, clear and clear terms. We're not sugar here, so it's just got to be possible. If we always have to discuss whether this can and should be done, and if we always have order proposals to discuss certain things or not, when we agree in advance that it will be a broad policy debate, then we are failing ourselves here. And if we fail ourselves, then we fail Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u614	I'm going back to the NICOLAI line. I think I can speak myself; that is better than interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u615	I would like to respond briefly to this. The Minister of Justice said in his first term, when this incident also came up: "Yes, I do not have such an opinion on it. It is mainly up to the Members of Parliament to address each other. If they find behavior unacceptable, it is up to your Chamber and your MPs to address each other." Well, that's what I did, because I'm really sorry about what happened to the word "criminal" and so on. I won't use it endlessly to hunt you down, Mr. Chairman, but that's what I did. I spoke to other politicians on that. I also received a great deal of support from Mr Backer, among others. Minister Grapperhaus says that we should address each other, but then we should have the opportunity to do the same. If the chairman says, with every word he doesn't like, that's impossible, how are we supposed to do that? Because then we'll end up in some kind of catch 22 and I won't be able to follow Minister Grapperhaus' advice anymore. In that sense, I have some sympathy with Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u616	I am pleased to have exchanged this and expressed my concern about this. So far in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u617	Thank you. A brief response from my part: I understand the concerns of society. They must also be discussed here. I think that has happened a great deal today. It may also be sharp, but it must stay away from enmity. The terms we have often discussed have not been placed by you but by others these days, clearly in the context of threats and enmity towards fellow MEPs. I know that you do not mean those words, but they can reach others, because they are not placed like this by you, but by other colleagues. That is why, as your chairman, I find it out of order. That's not because of the way you used them, but because of the way they were used by others. Friendship doesn't have to be here, but hostility is out of order here. That goes for all of us. Words matter, and they may arrive differently than they're meant to be, even different than you mean them and I mean them. It is not unreasonable to ask each other to take account of how words arrive. It is not only about how we pronounce them ourselves, but also about how they arrive at a listener's home or at a colleague's here or in the Lower House, regardless of how we mean them. I would like to discuss with you at another time the content of an orderly debate. I don't think we're very far apart about that at all. We shall now return to today's agenda. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u618	That's right, back to the content. I had noted that, in the debate on energy, Mr Van Hattem will always ensure that I come back to it, but after this change, that is a bit of mustard after the meal. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer and the reflections. The D66 Group also wants to support Mr Grapperhaus in his approach to violence. He rightly uses the word "explosive" instead of "fireworks," which sounds very friendly. What happened there is dangerous. Restoration of authority is important. Mrs Prins, Mrs De Boer and Mr Nicolaï also spoke about the soft side, but I would actually like to say that the behavior side is relevant. The behavior side not only has a repressive solution. I have concerns about a lot of young people who eventually, with a deviation in their youth, take a side path that they may even have ended up on by chance. At all levels, colleagues in society have a responsibility to us, ministers and aldermen. That's actually what the debate was about: how do you fill in that responsibility, how do you talk about it? That was also why I addressed the member of the Forum who is no longer here. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! That hunts in every time, in every society and in every century instincts to think in us versus them and to blame others for something. That is a political earning model, and it has proven itself over the centuries. I've been talking about fate. I would advise the Minister of Health to use that word instead of'solidarity', because in this case it is about fate. I think we are doing justice to the seriousness of the debate. Mr Verkerk spoke of Dooyeweerd. I should actually like to refer to Elias Canetti's Masse und Macht: once a movement is set in motion, it gets its own dynamics, it gets a massive dynamic in which people are dragged along. That may sound a bit dramatic, but these are the things that suddenly happen. Then we wonder: how can these things happen all of a sudden throughout the Netherlands? This dynamic is being set in motion. That's why I made that point. That is why I had a moment with Mr Van Hattem. We talked about metal fatigue, confusion and vaccination urge. I think that has been sufficiently discussed today. The minister was very positive about the extra plan to go into the neighborhoods. He was also addressed by colleague De Boer. I look forward with interest to the letter, but most of all to the actions. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the question of legality and proportionality. We have actually talked relatively little about this, because it is now about the extension. But in the priority weighting, of course, that is always the underlying idea. There are political groups that consider this to be different from those of the D66 Group. We think it's responsible, well, it has to be done to deal with the pandemic. Then we come to the association with this Chamber and the exegesis of the word "without delay." I remember that the Minister of Justice has earned a good deal of money with the notion of 'unfortunate', because that is a characteristic of the immediate discharge. That is not the resignation of the Minister, which Mr Otten proposes, but in labour law that is a well-known figure. That's where research is possible. There's a possibility of a delay in the investigation. No matter how you explain "indeed," the motto is: as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u619	I didn't propose the Minister's resignation this time. I did so in the previous debate. But I said: let's appoint a chief medical officer as soon as possible, directly to the Prime Minister, who can take over communication to the population. That is also what countries like the United States, Canada and Great Britain do. Also from the OMT even Mrs Schreijer on television recently called for a chief medical officer to be appointed, because there is insufficient medical competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u620	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u621	I'd like to straighten that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u622	Excuse me. I'd have understood. I believe that the matter of dismissal has been raised, but fortunately Mr Otten has proposed a chief medical officer. That seems to me to be a positive approach. Finally, Mr President. Trust in the government's approach has fallen sharply since the summer. I invite the cabinet, in missionary status but in this case missionary, to administer the non-medical vaccine called "trust" as much as possible, to radiate authoritative confidence and to expand rates. The minister already quoted an investigation into the perception of the press conference: the majority of Dutch people want an approach that is effective. There is a difference of opinion as to how this should be done. In it, the non-medical vaccine is "trust." That sounds like a tile wisdom. Maybe I'm inspired by the Minister's shoes, but I'd actually like to be inspired by his policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u623	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u624	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the ministers for their answers. First, I wanted to address the issue of disinformation versus misinformation, because those two terms are what is used in a mixed way today. Disinformation is deliberately spreading false information for the purpose of cheating, inciting, creating chaos and that sort of thing. Misinformation is to provide incorrect information under the assumption that that information is correct. Everyone does that by mistake, but that is really different from disinformation. Of course, both are harmful. Having said that, I would like to present two cases to you. One of my colleagues was called to the lung disease department this week in a patient with covid, because it further deteriorated and meanwhile met the criteria for ic intake. This case is largely in line with the case that the Minister himself suggested, but this man refused admission to intensive care because he was convinced by disinformation that the disease did not exist. He was so convinced that he was even aware of his possible death if he didn't undergo intensive care treatment, but he didn't want to go to intensive care. We have therefore left him in the department, but that means that disinformation has led to a real danger to his own life. And then there's the woman, 26 weeks pregnant, who hasn't been vaccinated on social media due to incorrect reports. As a result, in her pregnancy, which is a risk factor, she ended up in intensive care. After a week of treatment, she gave birth with a C-section to a premature child, who had to be treated in neonatal intensive care for weeks to come, with all the consequences. These examples show that disinformation is indeed a danger to the patients themselves, who suffer from it. But disinformation also leads to displeasure in society about the policies pursued. That can contribute to unrest again. We've seen that on the news the past few days. This means that providing good information, good communication from the government and contradicting disinformation, precisely in the current situation of the pandemic, are extremely relevant. That is why we have tabled the next motion. The: Mr Van der Voort and Mr Backer tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is much factually incorrect information (disinformation) about corona on social media and in other ways within groups of people;]] [[noting that disinformation may lead to mistrust of the government's corona policy and that this leads to discontent in society;]] [[Whereas on 18 October 2019, the Cabinet sent the letter "policy commitment to protect democracy from disinformation" to the House of Representatives, setting out a framework for clear lines of action, including countering disinformation;]] [[Whereas the implementation and enforcement of public policy would be beneficial if disinformation were contradicted and provided with adequate information;]] [[calls on the Government to intensify and report to this Chamber both the provision of information and the fight against disinformation on corona and corona policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35899-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u625	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With that, I end the contribution in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u626	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mrs Prins has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u627	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Ministers for their comprehensive answers to our questions. We would like to draw attention to the following issues. In our first contribution, we have made explicit reference to enforcement, because, unfortunately, we have to note that many of us are still too comfortable. We understand the Minister's explanation that this is a three-step approach, namely compliance, control and enforcement. We realize that compliance is the core, but a proverb says: the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. This is certainly true in this crisis in which many people have felt limited in their freedoms for months. Is it not true that on dangerous roads additional road checks are being used and therefore enforcement? We people seem to need that, however unfortunate. Therefore, once again, the call for more concrete and visible enforcement. Mr. Chairman. We understand the fact that the cabinet itself wants to talk to the various experts on polarisation and radicalisation in our society first, and to develop an approach to this. We do advocate including sociologists, group psychologists and pedagogues. In doing so, we would like to see the commitment confirmed that once the policy and approach in this area has been developed, the Minister for Justice and Security will inform us about this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that we are pleased that, despite the unpredictability and erraticness of the virus and despite the sometimes personal attacks, the cabinet is still taking responsibility. We appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u628	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u629	Still, a brief interruption. I hear Mrs Prins from the CDA say that it is precisely on the most dangerous roads that route controls are used to maintain. That is a very bad example, because an example of such a route control is that on the A2 between Utrecht and Amsterdam. That is a five-lane highway, one of the safest roads in the Netherlands, candle straight. That is not a problem at all, but route control has been set up and 100 kilometers per hour due to nitrogen and noise measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u630	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u631	Is it not true that this is the worst example you can give, because enforcement here is applied for other reasons, for environmental reasons, nitrogen and so on, rather than because of safety? This route control is often used for this purpose, not for safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u632	Mrs. Prince, a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u633	Fortunately, I note that on many provincial roads, which are very dangerous and where many fatal accidents occur, route control is used. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u634	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Janssen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u635	Thank you, Mr President. As a first thank you to the Minister of JenV for the positive answer to my question to pay attention to the impact of precisely the Inspection Environment and Transport, which has to monitor the classifications and transport of fireworks, which all come into our country on different roads. This is such a mess that we have all been able to see that it needs to be addressed where it can be done, but there are concerns about the impact force at the ILT, especially in this busy period. We have seen where that can lead, but I assume that the Minister will include this with his colleague from IenW, which includes the ILT. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. One of the advantages of this extension law is that there is a nice retrospective of the Council of State. The analysis of the fourth extension looked back. I must say that I was a little shocked by the similarities between my contribution and the opinion of the Council of State. I would just like to say that I had no insight into what the Council of State was going to advise or advise. But many things were agreed, including the yo-yo effect and the relaxation of the measures, which I have also called for attention to be given to. Mr. Chairman. When I look at the procedure for extending the temporary law, I am glad that we talked about it not being ideal, to put it equally euphemistically. I mean that we are going to vote on it one day before this deadline expires. After asking a few questions of our own and after asking Mr De Boer, we nevertheless came to the conclusion that making room for filing at the front could help us by not having to win back at the end what we lost at the front. Take as an example this extension, with 1 November and 10 November and sending it on 23 November. I call what we can win at the front. In the end, I understood the Minister in such a way that he sees it and will commit himself to it. As far as I am concerned, that also indicates how seriously the cabinet takes this law. Mr. Chairman. In the longer-term perspective, the Minister referred to the schools. We don't want any of that. However, we are gradually seeing that so many teachers are infected that it almost goes by itself, because more and more classes need to be sent home. I can see that there is more and more happening in secondary education in my own environment, but certainly also in primary schools. So I think that's a point to keep an eye on. Even if we wouldn't want it, perhaps it's the practice that's going to take care of it. The Minister also said that all these measures are difficult to sustain for people. Well, yeah, it's hard to hold on, but it's especially hard to hold on when you've held on, you can let it go, and then you have to hang on. That's what makes it hard to keep up, that people say, "I've already done it once. Why do I have to do it now? Is this gonna work now?" That's really what's bothering people, I think. I also heard the Minister talk about the strategy and scenarios in spring 2022 and about the fact that we will have to extend this law a number of times. But I believe that the Minister is not only talking about the fifth, but also about a possible sixth and seventh extension of this law. He mentioned the fifth. He said when spring comes, in the first quarter, we have to extend it a few more times. The fifth extension should take effect on 1 March. Is this really what the minister meant? Mr. Chairman. I said earlier in the first period when the Minister replied that he had not answered exactly what I had asked, or at least that my question might not have been entirely clear. I was concerned that I drew attention to the process of group thinking in a longer crisis. I'm not just saying that. Ira Helsloot and Margreeth van Dorssen also said this in the evaluation of the Mexican flu. They have said: it is very logical that a kind of group thinking should arise if a crisis lasts longer. You need to be alert about that. I asked: is there still sufficient counterpower? Is there still sufficient sharpness or has there been some kind of group thinking? And can the OMT come back to what it has previously advised, in their own critical manner? Is there still sufficient counterpower between the cabinet and the OMT? That was a question, too. It was also about the use of the OMT recommendations by the cabinet. How are they translated? I have also quoted Mr Gommers. He said: yes, but sometimes something happens and it is said in a way that we may not have meant to. I take all kinds of blows to the arm. But now I heard the Minister say in September about letting go of the 1.5 meter that this was in line with the OMT recommendation. He also said: because of proportionality it had to be. That is not the way the Council of State appreciates it, because it says something else about it. He says: it's understandable. But the Council of State doesn't say it was necessary, so there was no other way. He saw it as an understandable wish of the cabinet, but not necessarily as something that was necessary. There were also three scenarios in the OMT opinion of 13 September on those 1.5 metres, in which the lifting of the 1.5 metres was accompanied by a broad deployment of the corona ticket in the third scenario. But that was also the scenario with the possibility of a significant revival of the virus in the coming months. Then my question is: was that what the minister was referring to when he said "we followed the OMT's preferred scenario"? The OMT was talking about gradually relaxing and not about what has happened now. That's the translation I meant. Reading the OMT opinion, my question is whether that corresponds to the firmness with which the Minister said it. I saved it for the second term, because it was a little too long for an interruption. Mr. Chairman. If I may, I would like to make a final comment to Mr Van Hattem on the procedural proposal. He almost pretended that I had made my proposal of order to prevent him from speaking on a particular subject. I have tried no other way, given the time of the debate and the way in which the debate continued, after the Minister, in my view, gave a somewhat too long introduction on 2G and 3G when that was not on the agenda... Then I made the proposal: could we not talk about this in two or three weeks, if we are standing here again to talk all the way on that subject? That is the proposal I made to colleagues. I did not propose to colleagues that Mr Van Hattem should be silenced, because that was certainly not my intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u636	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for the answers given and Minister De Jonge for the commitments on the letters on the long-term and medium-term strategy on the current pandemic and general pandemic preparedness, and the corresponding legislative pathways. I would also like to thank the official staff, who are probably listening to something remotely for their unbridled commitment and for answering all written questions in the past period. And the next shipment's coming again. Sorry, folks, but that's corona time, too, I think! I, too, have asked a question that has not yet been answered, the same as Mrs Baay on the corona tickets and how we could possibly block them in the event of a positive test result. I also referred to the possibility of using the data required for the European corona access tickets. As far as I am concerned, however, that question can also be answered in writing, especially because it is again about the corona ticket. So we're gonna skip that one a little bit further. I would also like to thank colleagues for the debate we have had this morning on a number of dilemmas I have outlined. I've appreciated that very much. I've also gained some interesting insights, which I'm taking with me after today. I thank them for that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to endorse your call for the debate to continue in a respectful manner. It is indeed a good use of this Chamber to continue to address each other. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u638	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank both ministers for their contribution to this debate. Mr. Chairman. From the present legislation, the Corona Access Card, the CTB, is made a kind of cornerstone of the Corona Policy. The SGP can't agree with that. In the first term, I highlighted this. This shudder becomes even greater as the cabinet prepares itself to expand and strengthen the functioning of this pass. That's not a good way to go. In addition, the CTB fits poorly in the current phase of corona. Such a pass, if you already want it, can only function at a time when compliance and enforcement are optimal, and we are at a time of lower contamination rates, combined with easing and opening up sectors. Our objections to the present extension therefore remain. Furthermore, I note with concern that the cabinet and parliament are now focusing on the roll-out of the corona pass, with steam and boiling water, while we must put all our energy into the measures that are now effectively reducing contamination. Isn't this a very wrong priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u640	It took me a while to get to the microphone. I let it run in the first term, but I would like to ask a question very briefly. You say that it is very important that we continue to focus on measures other than the corona ticket. How is that possible without extending the Twm?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u641	I said something about this in the first term. It bothers the SGP group that the CTB did indeed ride in that Twm. And if you want to reject that course, that cornerstone that I just mentioned, there's really only one way to do that: vote against it. I also made it very clear in my first term that I do not want to suggest in any way that there is no need for action. If a majority of this Chamber were to put a line through it now, which I do not just see happening, then we can still think of emergency legislation to introduce measures that we do want with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u642	Go ahead, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u643	I have a question for Mr Van Dijk. He says very clearly what he doesn't want. In a previous debate on vaccination, I asked him: can you also show leadership towards your own people and say that it is good to vaccinate anyway? A number of SGP mayors have done so. You say you don't want a CTB. I understand that in itself, but when we see how high the number of infections is and if we do, as some people say, get close to the black scenario, what do you want, if we see in practice that compliance, control and enforcement, however well it is tried, will not bring what they should bring?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u644	Still, that's the first thing. We have agreed on a number of measures, such as 1.5 metres, which we know are effective. Then we will have to make a very firm commitment to that. You ask me what I want. We now have proposals from the cabinet. At the CTB there, the SGP is not the only one in the range, in terms of effectiveness, proportionality and everything. So what we all want or don't want, they have to be good measures. We do see a CTB, especially at this stage......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Again, that's what the OMT and the like say. So in that sense, I'm not saying so much news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u645	Of course, you were served by the Cabinet, because tomorrow you will enter the 1.5 meters. We'll know in two weeks whether that works or not. I'll keep calling you. Of course, it's very easy to reject things. I also sometimes think: I don't like that, given the polarization. And yet, if the pressure is so great on care, then we must also say: we are doing justice to the care staff, we are doing justice to what is happening there, and we are taking measures that are unpleasant and perhaps uncomfortable for our supporters or who does not know what.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u646	Once, but I do want to fight very strongly against the frame that we have said no to everything. The truth is that, of course, we have supported most of the measures by far. Only we see that the CTB is identified as a kind of cornerstone and we have very serious objections to that. I do not think you do justice to the SGP either if you suggest 'you are always against it', because we have, of course, supported a great deal. Once again, I think I have stressed very strongly today that we are really not out of the crisis. I really do not advocate the lifting of all measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u647	Finally, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u648	In any case, I will invite you to support a number of positive proposals in the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u649	Fine. I'm gonna close with the forms of engagement. Always try to find someone's vulnerable spot. Then you know where you shouldn't hit him. With those words of Cees Buddingh I like to close. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u650	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u651	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for their reply. I have not been given answers to all the questions, but I do not have such a need for them anymore. I would like to make one more point, however, which we have briefly discussed, and that is the question of the depreciation clause. I have an idea that there is a great misconception with the Minister or with his legislative officials, because Article VIII simply contains a clause of decay. It says: "As from three months after the date of entry into force of this Act, it shall expire: a. Chapter Va, paragraph 1a of Chapter VII (...) Public Health Act." So those chapters, those provisions, they expire. Those provisions actually list all the powers that the Minister and the Crown have, as far as the AMvB is concerned. If those provisions lapse, they don't fall asleep, but then they lapse. So they'll just be removed from the law. That is what we discussed at the time, including Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman, who said: if we do not agree to the extension, everything will fall out of that law. No one wants that on their conscience, so you can't really seriously discuss whether or not you're going to agree to an extension. That's what I said: take a good look at that. If you turn "deprecated" into "deprecated" suspension, those provisions will be suspended. These provisions are therefore not effective for a short time, but they are still in the law. In the short term, the government and the Chamber may discuss the circumstances under which agreement can be reached. However, I would like to remind the Minister once again to take another look at this, and, as he has also promised, I would simply like to have a response next month on whether he is prepared to change that in fact. It could be something else. I heard Mr Janssen say last time: perhaps we do not want that at all. In any case, consideration should be given to the question of how to really give shape to the control of the Upper House in this case. If you can only say yes or no without having a discussion about what you do and do not want to keep to powers, that is not really a control. I'd like to give that to the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u652	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u653	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by complimenting you, if there are any doubts, on the conduct of this debate. These are not the easiest debates. We're all on fire. With the way you have done that today, you have shown very clearly that you are the good President we need. Therefore, we do not support suggestions in a different direction. Thank you to the ministers for the answers. The answers were very comprehensive. A lot of time has been spent on it. We are satisfied with that. We have also had the opportunity to ask our questions with the answers in the interruptions. At the end of this debate, I should like to say what this whole day has achieved. I do not have the impression that the arguments of the parties have changed very much compared to yesterday. Perhaps we should consider how to make these debates more effective in terms of results. Mr. Chairman. I would like to appeal to a good old Dutch use, namely: talk to the mail writers and at least try to convince them that the information on which they base themselves is not really reliable. I also propose that we examine the possibility of drawing up a label, in particular to combat fake news. Disinformation is a serious theme. I'm being very serious about it myself. But in fact, sometimes you have to make fun of it. 'Cause, of course, it doesn't make any sense what they're saying. I therefore call on the Minister and the Cabinet to use cabaretiers to combat this kind of information. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u654	Thank you, Mr. Raven, and thank you for your words. Mr Karakus has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u655	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to keep it short, too. We had a nice debate. Thank you to the Ministers for their reply. Thanks also to the chairman for the good leadership today. Mr. Chairman. Just a few things. During my input I always try to be critical, but also constructive. I'm also trying to back up why something's needed. We are indeed concerned about polarization. Mrs De Boer has said very well that it was a modest answer. It's not about rioters, because you have to deal with them hard. It is not a question of not taking measures, because they have to be taken. But it is all about everything in between, because there are also many people who, by fickle action by the government, are no longer clear about what it is all about and therefore no longer understand. You're gonna lose it, too. We signal that and call for action to be taken. Also look critically at your own actions! The Minister has promised a letter, so we are looking forward to that letter. Also for the long term, we have indicated why this is important, why you have to manage the expectations of society and why it is important that you are clear that corona might actually become a part of our lives. Fortunately, the Minister has agreed to do so. We welcome the five scenarios that are to come, particularly with transparency and with care. Mr. Chairman. What is also a point at the support surface is the enforcement. It's complicated. For good enforcement, it is important that you do not make too many exceptions. It must be clear to the man or woman on the street. We have presented a few examples to which many exceptions to a rule can lead, for example on the basis of age. Someone on the street can't tell if someone's 17 or 18 years old. That's what it starts with. Make it clear and make it enforceable. We are also curious about the Minister's letter on this, because this is an important point for us. Finally, we have indicated where we are going to assess the forthcoming measures and legislative proposals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u656	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. Mr Verkerk has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u657	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking both ministers and their staff, who have answered all these questions anyway. I think it is very good how both ministers attend such a whole debate, which starts at 9:00 a.m. in the morning, with all his ups and downs, and still reacts freshly to it. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the VWS Minister for his constructive response to the democratic paradigm that I have proposed and for his commitment to address this further when he responds to the WRR and KNAW reports. Thank you again for that. Mr. Chairman. I have asked whether or not the Minister followed the advice of the OMT. In relation to that, I also asked whether we did not let go too much by mid-September. I was pleased with the explanation that when you started thinking about the 1.5 metres, the question was asked whether that was proportionate. I thought that was a good explanation. One more thing came to mind with me, and I would like to put it to you. When I look at the virus and I ask myself if it's manageable, I have 30, 40 years of management experience, so I think I'm allowed to use that word. I come to the conclusion that it's a very complex problem. The virus is erratic. There are a lot of factors that we don't know or don't know enough. It has linear connections, it has non-linear connections, and it has exponential connections. Maybe once in a while you'll get into a higher order. You know the chaos theory. So if you're gonna take all that, you're gonna have to come to a conclusion. So, if you don't set certain limits with the knowledge of today's events a few months ago, and you don't know that system well, what does that mean for the collateral you build in? I would like to ask the Minister: can it be that, given all these uncertainties, you have to be extra careful, or not? I am also grateful for what Minister Grapperhaus said about compliance, control and enforcement. I said I'd get back to you. I would like to ask you the following questions. You don't have to answer that now. Actually, I'd rather have a letter later. Then there can be a great deal of thought; let me put it this way. Will current policies lead to a breakthrough in compliance, control and enforcement? Or should we say that they are quite good plans, which best lead to an improvement, but not to the real breakthrough? On one point, therefore, I support what Mr van Dijk, Mr van Dijk, said: of course, compliance, enforcement and control must be as high as possible. Mr. Chairman. I also agree with the comments made by Mr De Boer, who spoke about the many concerns expressed about polarisation. When I described both stories or paradigms, I deliberately did so in neutral terms. I don't know if I've done it; I'm sure I won't. But I did it on purpose. That has to do with the fact that I have also learned from conversations with others how easily you can stimulate polarization itself by wrong use of words, or a certain one-sidedness in your argumentation. At least I've run into that a few times. So I would like to ask the ministers something. They don't have to answer that question now either, perhaps not now, but after a discussion with people who know all about it. The question is how we can deal with this as politicians, so that we also engage in the right dialogues. I do not think that talk shows are the best places; at least I am not watching them, and I would like to see you when you speak, but that is how they are. So I'd like to ask that question. Finally, I would like to say that our group will give a very positive opinion on the extension of the Twm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u658	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mr Otten has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group. And I would remind everyone that tomorrow's measures will take place in three minutes' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u659	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to return briefly to the tribunal incident earlier this day. As has been said, Minister Grapperhaus said in his speech that it is primarily up to Members of Parliament to address each other and call each other to order. I also thought I was doing that, and then, of course, there should be an opportunity to do so. If that is not possible according to the chairman, then it will be a complicated catch-22 situation. So giving that opportunity seems so courteous to me, Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Justice also felt he needed to say something about something I would have said about officials. I think he's referring to my remarks about Land Lawyer Pels Rijcken during the curfew debate. I said something there about the quality of lawyers compared to those of the lawyers of the people who started those lawsuits at the time. We just read in NRC Handelsblad tonight that the prosecutor who wanted to scale up the investigation to Pels Rijcken was flogged back by the top of the state's attorney's office. That's quite remarkable, but that aside. This is what I wanted to say first. Let's move on to the underlying subject. Mr. Chairman. "You can fool some people all the time, you can fool all the people all the time, but you can not fool all the people all the time." I'm not saying it right, but that was a quote from Abraham Lincoln. Today, during the Minister's long answers, that shot through my head many times. You cannot fool all the people all the time. The image that has emerged from us is that of a minister who is growing above the corona crisis. What the Netherlands wants to see now is leadership and not a minister who turns into a victim role. That is why we also tabled a motion to appoint a chief medical officer as soon as possible. I noticed that this was very much welcomed by the First Chamber members with a medical background. Mrs Schreijer, Member of the OMT, recently argued for this in Buitenhof. Many other doctors also argue for this. What to do now in this rapidly escalating crisis? According to Mr Gommers, code is black and it's one by twelve. First of all, speed up booster shots. Gas on it, said a doctor somewhere on TV today. Break through the bureaucratic barriers, I say to the Minister. You have been given all the powers you need from the Chamber. Then use it. Also openly acknowledge that things have not gone quite as you have told the people. The miracle medicine "vaccinating" is not a panacea, but is one of the most important sliders in Mr Van der Voort's mixing panel. So, come clean with the population, I would say, otherwise your policy will not be effective anyway. Even if you are doing everything right now, credibility must first be restored. That's the most important thing, otherwise people won't listen. That should be the first step as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. While the minister is almost near-sightedly focused on the daily details of the corona care, regular care is scaled down. I heard today that in Amsterdam more than 60% of the ic-beds are occupied by corona patients. Meanwhile, people are dying on the waiting list, waiting for surgery. That is why we call on the Minister to have special corona centres operational in the short term. However, this only works if a significant additional payment is made in order not to get the staff cannibalisation. I am assured of that, including Mr Girbes. He says: if there is a significant extra payment, then you can arrange it in a good way. So no seasoning, please. Money is not a problem, I have heard the Minister say many times today. So that can't be an obstacle. If the money is a problem, then the Minister uses his special powers which he has been given to collect this money from the health insurance companies. They're on tens of billions of reserves of our care premiums, which have been piled up there. They're rigged up there for these kinds of scenarios that really barely happen. Well, then they should be used now and not stored for later. So why don't you just talk to the money? Make an emergency bill if you have to, because you can add it to that. We've had enough emergency legislation. Mr. Chairman. In that light, I have the next motion. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a result of the inconsistent corona approach of the Cabinet, the corona contamination is now at record level and the hospitals and ICU departments are beginning to become overburdened, which means that regular care is now seriously under pressure and needs to be scaled down;]] [[whereas scaling down regular care is undesirable and unacceptable and an innovative approach is now urgently needed;]] [[Whereas the establishment of specialised medical centres which perform only the treatment of corona patients is an effective measure to ensure that regular care is as smooth as possible;]] [[noting that this plan only works provided that nursing and medical personnel temporarily employed on a rotating basis in these corona centres are significantly extra rewarded for their hard work for society;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up concrete plans as soon as possible, in consultation with medical professionals, to have such specialised corona centres operational in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35899-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u660	Finally, I would like to recommend to the Minister that he read Michael Lewis' book The Premonition on how to tackle the corona crisis in the United States. There went a lot wrong, but also a lot good. The situation is very similar to what happened in the Netherlands. You see above all the importance of timing and that the first days are crucial in decision-making. Every day you wait too long, the problem gets bigger exponentially. I would advise the minister and the entire cabinet to read the book. It's one of the best books I've read lately about corona. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u661	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u662	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to my colleagues in office, the chairman and all the staff of the Chamber for all that we have done with each other today. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I asked for vision. There were a lot of words and also concrete plans, like the five scenarios before after this winter. That's okay, but it was also a bit disenchanting. Mrs De Boer quoted a crystal clear example of the press conference. There it was not said that the one-and-a-half meter measure went back in. A very fair question, because it just goes wrong with the communication again. In response to this, the Prime Minister did refer to a website that people can look at. Then why are you holding a press conference? It's just a small example, but it's indicative. This meeting came to us with an ink black warning from Mr Gommers: in ten days' time we will be in code black. Another sign of the communication in this crisis is that the Minister promptly contradicts his advisor. No vision and no communication. I really hope with all my heart that the Minister will be right on this point and that we will not all end up on a code of black within two weeks. But in hope and conflicting messages and miscommunications, after two years in this crisis, we cannot sail. The Dutch don't deserve that. That undermines any confidence in the policy as far as it's concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u663	It is late, but I would like to put another question to Mrs Nanninga. We talked about polarization and communication. Now you've already used the term "code black" six times tonight. You also know how communication works. So code black is up and running, if you keep repeating it. You want to show that there is a misunderstanding between Mr Gommers and the Minister. In the meantime, at least six times the term "code black" has fallen. Does that add up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u664	Wait a minute. So naming the reality that a member of the OMT...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u665	No, Mr. Chairman, excuse me. It's not a reality!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u666	Excuse me. The intention is not to confuse, because then it will still be a disorderly debate, so late in the evening. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Nanninga, because you have put a question to Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u667	Thank you. naming the reality that a member of the OMT has said so... I quote what Mr Gommers said and I am asking, quite rightly, the Minister. How is this possible, because I hear different things here? We can also declare the words "code black" into a term prohibited in this Chamber. I wish I had the magical powers to make something happen by using the word very often, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u668	That's not the point. It is unbelievable how the discussion is always turned to a "something must not." No, we're talking about communication. Ms. Nanninga speaks to the cabinet on communication. I think she has now used the words "code black" twelve times in her communication, when the Minister has already replied. Yet you will come back to it, just to light that fire. My question is: does that contribute to reducing polarization?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u669	If Mr Backer is always given the role of banning business, then perhaps he should ask. Maybe he's the ghost rider who says, "One ghost rider? I'll see a hundred." Maybe he's very restrictive about the performance. What I'm saying doesn't, in any way, have anything to do with the burning of a fire. I note that Mr Gommers says: we have this problem. I think it's a big deal for the Minister to say, "No, it's not. I don't judge who's right. I don't know. But if Mr Backer gets a hint of the fact that I'm naming it, I'll go home and have some netflix or something. If we can't do this anymore...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u670	I will take that advice to heart. Mrs. Nanninga also knows something about communication. That's what I cared about. I don't want to suppress anything. It is about the debate and the words used in it. If you use the words "code black" twelve, fourteen or sixteen times, when that is not the case, can I say something about that? That was the whole purpose of my intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u671	Mr Backer has now used the words 'code black' more often than I have, so he is making an ugly contribution to polarisation, according to what should go on for his own logic. What I was gonna say, Mr. Chairman. We can't sail on contradictory messages and hope anymore. Again, I really hope Minister De Jonge is right and that we don't end up in that... What can I say? Non-white code. I don't know what else to do, guys. But this is not going so well and that is worrying. This incident is an example of the lack of direction, communication and coordination. We cannot agree to this extension, also because of what the SGP said. That 2G is going to be hung in there sooner or later, of course, and our party is not in favour of that. We are expressly in favour of measures. We expressly call on all those who can and may do so to be vaccinated, also in response to the terrible stories of Mr Van der Voort. But we're not gonna vote for this. Finally, on my motion, I would like to say to the spokesmen. This motion was previously filed in the Lower House by my party mate Nicki Pouw-Verweij. All your groups in the House of Representatives, with the exception of the coalition parties, voted in favour of that motion. Let me give you this in your consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u672	Is that what you're doing at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u673	That was the end of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u674	I think Mrs. Nanninga sees the question coming. If you are in favour of measures, how can you oppose the extension of the Twm? How are these measures supposed to take shape?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u675	They can just go through both rooms neatly each. Emergency laws are constantly being pumped through here at a killer pace. As soon as requested, the coalition stands in line with clasping heels to accept that. I've been grunting about the Chamber like some kind of stamp machine. But measures that are well-founded, which are necessary, where proper communication and coordination are behind, can simply be rolled out along the normal democratic path. We're not against that at all, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u676	So you want to have a law through the Chamber each?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u677	As it was until recently in a decent democracy, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u678	That probably limits the impact force a little, I'd say. Look how fast laws go through both chambers if we just look at this approval law for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u679	I think that the urgency is felt by almost all parties in the Second and First Chambers. Too much torment of democracy should not be done, certainly not under this lack of communication, lack of coordination and lack of direction. We do not have the confidence that things are going well in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u680	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Ministers, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Can I ask you what the order will be? We will begin with the Minister of Justice and Security. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u681	Mr. Chairman. I hope that you will allow my colleague to withdraw for a moment in order to prepare the motions in the context of the efficient further examination of the second term, and that in the meantime, as a kind of pause act, I will raise my points. It's four or five points that are addressed to me. I shall begin with Mr Verkerk's point on current compliance policy. He asks whether that will lead to a breakthrough. I think that the policy is really aimed at ensuring that we move forward with compliance and control. You have heard me say, in the first period, in response to the legitimate questions put by Mrs Prins, and I will be on the highway with cars and such like that we really need to have the respect and control very much in order if we want to move forward. Then there is an enforcement framework at the end, I also said. But then the point is: have we arranged it in such a way that we can move forward? I'm assuming that's what I'm convinced of. We see that we have now taken a number of initiatives which have already led to an increase in control in a large number of sectors since mid-October. It is worrying that the full control of QR code and identification in a few sectors that are also known: hospitality, sports canteens and cinemas really leaves something to be desired. It's gotta go up. I have also indicated in the first period that making additional resources available to get that control has worked much more off the ground. We are going to talk to see if there could possibly be more possible. What is at issue here is Mr Verkerk's question as to whether the current policy on compliance and so on leads to a breakthrough. Yes, provided you deal with effective improvements on all three of them. As far as compliance is concerned, I refer to the communication campaigns that we have expanded considerably in recent times. We will continue to expand it. I understand your Members' critical comments on the fact that communication may not always reach 200%. But I have already indicated in my first term that the complex issue here is, as we have seen in recent times, as in previous stages, that there are quite quickly successive new regimes with constantly different measures. This makes it difficult for the public, even if you put it very well, from tram boxes to commercials and clear instructions on the internet, to keep track of what rules now apply. As far as enforcement is concerned, we can see that going well, because we are rising enormously in the number of administrative warnings, preventive burdens under penalty payments and closures. In October, there was little or no mention of this, but that has now been better dealt with. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from the ladies Baay and De Bruijn. I want to give an explicit commitment to the letter about blocking the corona tickets here. There was a slight misunderstanding between Mr De Jonge and me, but we will tell you that we will return to that in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u682	I have a very short question. Thank you for your explanation. Let me start by saying that I have every confidence in that. I would like to ask you, but perhaps that is already happening, to discuss in the monthly state of affairs how this section is being stepped up and what its results are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u683	We do that weekly with the Security Council and with the sectors. Sometimes it's a bit of a twist in the agenda, because there's also just a department where topics play. But we are always discussing progress, also last Monday evening, with the Security Council and the sectors in a separate discussion. We then see if compliance is improving, where there are clear concerns, where things are less and where one can learn from each other's good practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u684	Then I have one more question. Can you inform this Chamber in due course how things are developing in this area? That really doesn't have to be weekly, that can be monthly or bimonthly. But I would like to hear the results of this, precisely because this is an incredibly important point of the Corona policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u685	The compliance studies are regularly shared on national government.nl. When the legislative proposals on corona tickets are discussed, which will start in about ten days' time, this issue will certainly also be discussed. We are now ten or fourteen days away and we know how bad the developments are, not only with regard to the virus, but also with regard to compliance and so on. Mr. Chairman. Then I had the question of Mrs Prins touching on this, about road checks on dangerous roads. Let me be clear: I have promised Mr Karakus that I will send the enforcement framework. That's risk-oriented and random. Risk-oriented falls into crowded areas and is concentrated on matters whose operator, whether it's catering or cinema, has already expressed himself or has already shown himself to be someone who doesn't really participate. You may find that strange, but we have seen it in practice over and over again. It was also in Breda, Groningen and Leeuwarden that people said in advance that they did not participate. Risk-oriented is then a security at that time. We are quite rightly talking about the pressure on care, but I would also like to draw attention to the pressure on enforcement: the boas and the police. We talked about what happened in the last few days at the beginning of my term. I say this very clearly: there is no additional capacity for boas and certainly not available to the police to check for QR codes. The cops aren't gonna do that. Let me just make that point right here. But I'll come back with that enforcement framework. I see that mayors do really good things with that in a smart way. Mr. Chairman. Then the final point of substance of today's polarization. I have already indicated that this will certainly be further developed in the context of this joint approach between municipalities, the NCTV and the police. In the meantime, a letter has also been issued confirming what has been said in the National Consultation on Security and Police. Yes, it is being deployed, partly on the basis of, however horrible that sounds, the threat images that the NCTV periodically makes.That's what I've already reported and which have had a certain corona component for a year and a half. To continue with this: I still get a weekly monitor of everything that is spotted by the police in the Netherlands. That is also where we get where developments are and where perhaps something needs to be done. You may recall that in the first few months, the police signalled that domestic violence had declined enormously. We have looked with experts at what was going on, whether something went wrong in the reporting and whether we should intervene or something like that. As far as polarisation is concerned, targeted measures are being taken and will continue to be taken. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say the following to Mr Otten. It is true that, in the debate we had in February, very unfounded criticism of the legislative lawyers was expressed. Especially since the Court was quite right afterwards on the issue of Wbbg and its application, I think it is right to establish that these accusations were unjustified, not only at the time, but also afterwards. That is what I wanted to say in the first term, and I repeat it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u686	Thank you, Minister. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u687	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the motions as they have been tabled. First of all, the motion with letter F. That's a speech-out. It doesn't call on the government to do anything, but calls on the members of the First Chamber to do something. That means I'm not judging. The same applies to the motion with letter G. This does not apply to the motion with letter H. It calls on the cabinet to call the proposed introduction by the European Commission of the permanent European corona certificate undesirable and not to support it. But there is no intended permanent introduction, so I advise against this motion. It's just an assumption that we might have to deal with it a little longer. I can't resist assumptions. There's nothing going on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u688	There was an article in Trouw last week which specifically suggested that the European Commission, in particular Ursula von der Leyen, was in the process of giving it a permanent status. Where there's smoke, there's fire. Before we get a code of black smoke here, I would like the Minister to clarify that, if this is discussed, there will be no white smoke for this proposal. I mean that we get the assurance here from the cabinet that it will not be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u689	I think this is such a complicated debate. There is no proposal from the European Commission to grant permanent status to the current temporary digital corona certificate. I have seen a statement from the President of the Commission. She has said: it may well be that we need to make longer use of it in order to make safe travel possible. Yes, it could be. Period. We shall then await the proposals. If there are proposals to relate to this, we will assess them on their merits. You know that we always make our commitment to European decision-making known in advance to the Chamber, because your Chamber can intervene in that too. But to take a position now on all kinds of what-ifs that could possibly come up in the coming year, when I do not have or know the proposal, does not seem to me to be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u690	There is a little more to it than that, because it has already been discussed in the European Parliament, so we can soon get the situation that it will be discussed, for example, at a European Council. I refer to a JHA Council or one of the other Councils that is taking place in this context where they speak at ministerial level. If it is discussed at that level and it is discussed in a working lunch or something like that, then these informal sessions always go around the European Commission. Can the Minister indicate that the Dutch Government will take the initiative: no, we are not going for a permanent European corona certificate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u691	We're gonna get a proposal first, if there's a proposal, and then we're gonna talk about it. You will always be given prior notice of the cabinet's commitment on paper so that you can intervene. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u692	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u693	Finally. I have to conclude that my motion is still necessary to strengthen that we should not wait for a proposal, but that we should immediately send a signal to Brussels that they simply should not come forward with such a proposal, because it will always be undesirable in the case of the Netherlands. That's why I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u694	Okay. That's up to you, but I don't recommend her. The motion on letter I says: pronounce. So I don't have to judge that either. Then the motion to letter "K."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u695	You're going to move on to letter J of Mr. Otten, on the chief medical officer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u696	I advise against this, because in the Netherlands we are advised by the chairman of the Outbreak Management Team, who is a medical doctor by the way. In an infectious disease crisis, you could call it the chief medical officer. Furthermore, I do not see any added value in the appointment of an official at the moment, quite frankly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u697	Mr Otten does not entirely agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u698	Well, this suggestion even comes from the OMT! Mrs Schreijer also said that a chief medical officer should be appointed, as in other countries. That should also report to the prime minister, which means there's... now, of course, it's one big grudge of all... we'll see it tonight. While we are debating here, all OMT members are on talk shows with all sorts of different opinions. You clearly don't have it under control anymore, so we need a chief medical officer who can clearly communicate to the public what needs to be done and how things stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u699	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u700	I'd like to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u701	Well, that's what you've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u702	Mr Otten suspects that individual views of individual members of the OMT will end when you appoint another member of staff. That is what Mr Otten thinks. That's a wonderful assumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u703	Well, at least you'll have someone who has that authority. In other countries that works very well. In America, you have the Surgeon General. In Canada you have that, too, and in America... uh, in the United States you have this... uh... the United Kingdom... it's already late; sorry, chairman. So that works relatively better there than with this polder swamp we're getting into here. My call just now in second term was: do something about it! If that doesn't work, put someone next to it. That was our idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u704	Thank you for the explanation of your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u705	As a solution to too many opinions, you want another opinion. That sounds like you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u706	The motion to letter K.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u707	... an adequate solution. I don't think so, but you can vote for that motion. I'd like to dissuade her. The motion on letter K invites the cabinet to send an overview for the ceremonies, indicating the period during which the cabinet sends to which factors. That is what I want to do for the approach that applies this winter. I can explain why we have chosen this approach, for these criteria. We have already explained this in letters before, but I can imagine that Mrs Nanninga would like to see that clearly in a row. That is not a new approach over the winter period, but we can well articulate on what values we send and why. That's what I want to do. If I can understand her that way, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. I should like to refer briefly to the debate we have had on this subject. I see this as additional support for the policy. Then the motion under letter M.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u708	Maria's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u709	Maria's, but she's actually Mr. Otten's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u710	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u711	It calls on the government to draw up concrete plans as soon as possible. I've already promised you what I'm doing on that point. I think I want to discourage this motion, because the way in which this motion describes how we should achieve a centered covid capacity is not the way in which we should commit. Right, because it says: significant additional rewards. Because I think that is precisely the competition that concerns people, because it takes people out of hospitals. Then you have extra centered capacity that in turn undermines the basic capacity we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u712	No, that's a misconception. I've been in contact with Armand Girbes, who just said: if you don't, you'll get that cannibalization. So you have to do it temporarily and reward those people really significantly extra. For example, do it for a six-month period in which you get paid twice. Then there are people joining the market, who now all say: I don't feel like it anymore. With €100, that won't work. That's why I said no seasoning. It is now time for unorthodox measures and crisis management. I have the feeling every time that that doesn't really get through to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u713	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u714	So I'd still like to ask you to reconsider this and do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u715	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u716	I am certainly talking to the concern about how to achieve a centered covid capacity in the region, but this is not the way to do that. If you think it's gonna be okay if you put down a really big bag of money and then you don't have any competition with the existing covid capacity, then you're really wrong. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u717	I think that, across the board, salaries in health care should be raised. Again, what do you think the damage is from a lockdown? This is not the case with the costs involved. So let's not be penny wise, pound foolish. This should have happened a long time ago; a year ago. It is all far too late now, but now crisis management has to be carried out, so that regular care can continue. So I would strongly advise the Minister not to discourage this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u718	The plea is clear. Thank you, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u719	Okay. Mr President, then I shall continue with the questions that remain. First of all, Mrs De Boer's question. Mr Grapperhaus has already addressed polarisation, but I would like to say that Mrs De Boer says: I do not think that we have actually had enough thorough debate on this issue. Mr Karakus joined us, and that means that I am no longer in a position to go. So I'm concerned about that. Let us not continue the debate at this time, but in a few weeks' time, if we deal with the legislative proposals before us. Bills that are often said to be extra polarized; how do you prevent them from doing so? So let us have that debate in a good way, because I think it is a very useful debate to have. That can't prevent polarization. That polarization is in society. Nor can I prevent the frustration of people; they are present. At the same time, there are ways that can help to keep society together and how that does not help. Communication is one element in this, but it certainly helps or does not help at all in the way in which we debate corona policy in politics. I think that is a very useful part of the political debate on the legislative proposals that are coming. You also mentioned education. I do not think I have responded sufficiently to that. The letter sent last night in response to the OMT opinion that we received in writing on Monday following last Friday's OMT meeting says a number of things about this, namely: teachers work at home unless they have to teach or otherwise be in the interest of students at school, i.e. team meetings, study days, and otherwise at home. That's the deal. Parents and caregivers don't come into school unless there's really no other way. All adults keep 1.5 meters apart, celebrations take place without external attendees and everyone with complaints stays at home until a negative test result is received. And the children of primary school age continue to be able to go to school with slight complaints in line with the same line as they are at the moment. Moreover, the self-test policy in secondary schools is being stepped up, particularly reactivated, because you can see that it has really fallen down in a number of schools. These are the tightening-up of Mr Slob, who has intensified with the education sector in response to Monday's OMT opinion. Mr Van Hattem asked about the figures on the underlying suffering. They are not administered and registered in this way. If you visit a hospital, they can say a lot about that quality. We also know that the people who have been vaccinated and are in hospital are often suffering from comorbidities. But underlying suffering as such is not centrally administered so that I could give you those figures centrally. I would ask you to understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u720	Mr Van Hattem. Do you think it's okay to be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u721	I'll be brief. I have a great deal of sympathy for the Minister. There are, of course, a lot of restrictions on privacy in this area, the AVG et cetera. But it would help if we could get a clearer picture of it. We are now seeing a lot of numbers of deaths from corona and hospitalizations. But we just have a very bad picture of whether or not that's the main factor. I mean, for example, that someone is at a more advanced stage of cancer and is also dealing with a corona infection, but that cancer treatment is actually the biggest medical concern. Isn't that something of a clearer picture to paint?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u722	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u723	This can also be done at aggregated level. Could the Minister perhaps respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u724	Your question is clear. Just one question, Mr. Van Hattem, if you don't mind. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u725	I understand your quest, at least, Mr Van Hattem's quest, I say, of course, through the chairman. I would like to give you an opportunity to consider what would be said about this in an additional, probably more qualitative sense. I understand the search. Then I come to the statements made by Mr Gommers this evening. Perhaps it is good to emphasise in all precision that the Outbreak Management Team is the advisory body in the direction of the Cabinet as to what measures are to be taken to control the epidemic. The last opinion of the Outbreak Management Team, of which Mr Gommers is a member, is from yesterday. That advice doesn't say anything about a code black. That advice also does not mention a lockdown in the sense of: setting immediately. No, it's saying about a lockdown in the sense of: if you want to avert that, it's important that we stick to those measures much better. This is also in line with what the cabinet decided on on the basis of the OMT opinion. Could it be that the OMT will come to different insights this week or next week and would still like to recommend a lockdown? It could be. The OMT shall be independent in that regard. But I think it is wise to follow the OMT and not to immediately make new policies based on individual members and individual members' statements. That's one. Two is: where it is about national scaling up, the National Network Acute Care is at play. Those are the collected presidents of the Regional Consultation Acute Healthcare Chain. We agreed with them on the revision of the plan. They have agreed to this again with the NVIC, the Dutch Association for Intensive Care, and with the V&VN, the national association for nurses. With them we have a rampage plan that runs up to 1,350. At the moment there are 488 covid patients on the ic. The scale plan runs to 1,350. After consulting the NVIC and V&VN, the LNAZ has said that it will be very difficult to do so for a long time, but for a few weeks, it can be done. Again, the LNAZ has aligned that plan with the NVIC and with the V&VN. We're gonna have to do it with that. We have to hold them to that. To see how the day-to-day course of things goes, of course we have daily contact with LNAZ and all partners, but certainly also that the supervisors, both IGJ and NZa, check their images daily at the hospitals and share that daily with us. This is how we send, and here again: not on the basis of individual statements, which also change from day to day, I have to say. We really need to send here on the basis of the agreements with those who are ultimately responsible for achieving those agreements and on the basis of the information provided by our supervisors. Something of order, peace and regularity would benefit the decision-making process in this crisis, I think. Then the LHV and the non-enthusiastic. I think we have exchanged enough. I'm not going into that right now. There are a number of thousands of general practitioners, so you will undoubtedly be able to discover all the sound colors and shades. Of the role in the vaccination campaign as it has been, I know that it is not just looking back with a lot of joy. I understand that, too, I said. Maybe I'll share that. But look at what general practitioners are doing now. They don't all do it, but a large part of the general practitioners are willing to do it. That's certainly cheerful. I am then with Mr Janssen. This concerns the Outbreak Management Team and is alert to group thinking. I think that's quite right. If you see all the individual members of the OMT in the programs by now, I would actually wish ourselves and the Outbreak Management Team a little more group thinking, not necessarily with us but with each other. That would be very kind, I think. That's one. Two is that I think the independence of the Outbreak Management Team is the strength of the Outbreak Management Team. As soon as we sit in their seats or they sit in the political chair, the added value of such an independent advice in a crisis is already rapidly deteriorating. That also means, I believe, that we should remain pure in the questions we are asking. Have we ever done that wrong? Have we ever asked questions to the Outbreak Management Team that they were right to say: boy, that's really a political question, so do it yourself? Yeah, I think so. The questions surrounding fireworks I found an example of that. You shouldn't ask the Outbreak Management Team that at all. You have to make your own decision as a political one. You shouldn't ask the OMT. They just can't say that. Is there enough counterpower? I think there's enough counterpower. There is an independent advisory body that has every freedom to find everything that should be found. The OMT itself decides its own opinions, determines the advisors they involve in the opinions they produce, and is broadly composed. They keep each other sharp. That is why I attach great importance to their advice. I attach great importance to the final outcome of the opinions. In my view, this also brings with it the necessary weighting. The cabinet then takes this into account in its deliberations. I would like to add that the OMT is not the only advisory party to take the initiative. It's the most important one, I dare say, but not the only one. In addition to the things that are needed to keep that virus under control, we also need to know what is actually the damage that you do to your socio-economic and social life. So you want to know how you can achieve an adequate balance. I'm attached to this way of working. I think that's really important. Let's just get right on that five-footer. Look, the advice of the Outbreak Management Team was as follows. There were three scenarios. The third scenario was the lifting of the safe one-and-a-half meter distance standard and wide deployment of the CTB, combined with relaxations that follow from giving up the safe distance of 1.5 meters. That was the third scenario. Next, the OMT says: "In the current phase of the epidemic, the OMT prefers scenario 3, which removes the one-and-a-half meter distance standard as a mandatory measure but remains as an advice." Well, that's exactly how we took over. "There is a broad use of CTB in risky settings where people stay close to each other, i.e. within each other's breathing circle." Well, that's exactly how we followed it. In short, we have followed the advice of the OMT, in the preferred scenario described by the OMT. Could we have chosen one of the other scenarios? Yeah, we could have, but we followed the OMT's preferred scenario here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u726	May I be brief, Mr. Janssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u727	If you want to be brief, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u728	I'd love to. I'll give you a chance to make a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u729	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say that I would like to talk about this. This was also the OMT opinion which was the basis for the fourth extension, which I hope we will be discussing shortly. We are now completing the third extension, but I shall go into it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u730	I wish it were that far! Then Mr Nicolaï. I'm just gonna go back to it in writing. I see that my persuasiveness towards Mr Nicolaï on this point this evening is simply insufficient. I am going to return to this in writing. In the letter, the December letter, in which we look forward to what kind of legislative instruments we actually need, I go into detail, but really comprehensively and exhaustively, the suggestion made by Mr Nicolaï, to do justice to his once again made point this evening. Then ventilation. Mr Raven van OSF asked a question about this. I'm going to refer you to a website where everything is basic. That's ventierenzogedoed.nl. That's the rebuilt website where all the advice comes together. With regard to the distribution of fake news, I refer to the commitment called for by the motion of D66. A quality mark is not so easy to do, because that requires public intervention. And if it's not government intervention, it's industry intervention, it's really best left to the industry. One does not work with a label, but actually with a commitment on which one also standards one another and on which one complements and keeps each other sharp. I think that's actually a better way to work. Then Mr Verkerk. In conclusion, in relation to proportionality, he asks: is the virus we are dealing with really manageable? I believe that the way in which Mr Verkerk has now underlined the complexity of the task is entirely in line with the way in which we are actually looking at the current situation. Figures are much less evidently explainable than they were at the time when we had not reached such a high vaccination rate. The extent to which the high level of contagion leads to new hospitalisations depends on so many factors that there is no one dimensional direction. In addition, the degree of acceptance of measures in society is really very different and the degree of compliance with measures in society is very different than in the previous waves. That's all you have to bear in mind. You also have to consider the social damage caused by these measures. In short, we are in a situation where the virus gets and takes a lot of space and in which the rack in the care is completely out and so is the rack in society. It is up to us to come through this winter period with calm courage, I would say. It takes a cool head and a warm heart. I'd like to leave it at that for tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u731	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-23-eerstekamer-8.u732	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. I propose that we also vote next week on the motions tabled. Then we have arrived at the end of the sitting. I thank all the Members, the Ministers and the staff who made this meeting possible, and I wish you well at home.
