ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35704, Amendment of the fiscal statement of the Ministry of Finance for the year 2021. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance - Fees and Customs to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Karimi of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u2	Madam President. Fortunately, in a rule of law, we do not often speak of an "unsuitable injustice"; injustice that the government and its institutions do to the citizens. Unfortunately, tens of thousands of women and men, parents with their children, have in recent years faced unprecedented injustice in the Netherlands. Discriminalized, labelled as fraud and criminal, not heard and seen by the institutions of our rule of law that should have protected them against arbitrariness and injustice. Unfortunately, the injustice cannot be undone. The enormous suffering caused by parents and their children has destroyed lives and will remain inscribed as a shameful page in the history of an inflexible government that chased its own subjects into misery. Public action is therefore urgently needed to at least compensate these parents and to assist them to re-establish their lives. However, the recovery operation is going very slowly. With the decision to pay a lump sum of €30,000 to the deceased parents, the cabinet wants to help them more quickly and generously. During the examination of this proposal in the House of Representatives, the Lodders/Van Weyenberg amendment was adopted. That amendment establishes a moratorium. This moratorium prevents creditors from exercising their claims on the parents who are members of the recovery operation for one year. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer to the questions raised in the written round. That is why I can already say in this first term that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports the legislative proposal. We also believe that the moratorium is a helpful method to prevent creditors from standing on the doorstep of parents once the lump sum of €30,000 has been paid. But a one-year cooling-off period is still not a definitive solution. And we are concerned that people whose lives have been on hold for years should be left even more in uncertainty. In the State Secretary's reply, I read: "At the moment, I assume that the cooling-off period of one year is sufficient to reach a solution for all parties involved. If it turns out that this is not feasible in some situations, I will take timely and transparent action on this." The possibility of still having unsolved debts to creditors after one year is really indigestible for my group. Can the Secretary of State give a clear undertaking that one year is a maximum period in which a solution has to be found? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Wilders motion adopted in the House of Representatives, I ask the Secretary of State. The motion calls on the government, if necessary, to take over the victims' private debts. What steps has the Secretary of State taken to get in touch with the private creditors? How are the costs of implementing the motion reflected in the present supplementary budget? We would also like to know from the Secretary of State how far she has advanced in paying the lump sum to the parents. How many parents have already received the amount and how fast is the recovery operation going? Finally, I ask the Secretary of State to respond to the reports in the Volkskrant of 20 February last on the handling of the Tax Administration with thezzp'ers and the implementation of the scheme Decision on self-employed assistance. Mr President, I await with interest the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Crone of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is also a great pleasure for me to be able to hold the debate under your guidance. You just left our group room and forgot all your phones. Then I thought "that's gonna be a very concentrated chairman," but I still put the phones all in a lunchbox, so you got them again. Welcome to the Secretary of State, who has been given a lot of choice as a former colleague. We have had another debate on your last tax plan on the surcharge system, and now, hopefully, it will all be better, but that will require elections. Oh, let's take off the mask, Mr. Chairman. You'll never get used to it. You know, I don't always put it on when I have to. Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, the House of Representatives unanimously adopted the regulation and added another bead to the chain of the supplement drama, with the plan to pay €30,000 to all parents before 1 May, but it also adopted an amendment for a pause test/moratorium for private creditors, so that the parents did not lose the gift of €30,000 immediately. That's wise. And in terms of content you would almost say that this could be a hammer piece here, but still there are a number of questions that are still politically important. My group welcomes this flat-rate payment, because yes, it will indeed help people. But it also works very differently, because it is a flat-rate amount, so people with debt to the Tax Office for example get €10,000 too much. But after all the misery, she was granted it. Here is actually the reverse saying of "where is chopped, chips fall" - well, we have seen that in this dossier. That is, in fact, the reverse: to help everyone quickly, some are lucky. And we like that, because that is also a form of justice to the group as a whole. But it is also justified for people with a debt greater than €30,000, because if I understand it correctly, I also ask the Secretary of State for a debt greater than €30,000 if it is all selected the multiple also paid out, plus an additional compensation of 25%. So that's always a big amount, because you're already over €30,000, and also excluding interest and so on, because of course you'll also get reimbursed. So on two sides of the €30,000 there is an advantage over clearing the debt. And we're okay with that, because even if you have a smaller debt, those people too may have been in psychological uncertainty for a long time and have been through all the misery. The aim of the recovery operation is.............................................................................................................. And it is also a good thing that there is a pause test, because, of course, for a long time now, it is not everyone who knows exactly how big these debts would be. And maybe we won't even know that in a year. That is, of course, in line with Mrs Karimi's question: would a year be enough? In any case, it is a good start to looking for payment solutions. But it is also good for creditors, because they can have more overview of the whole. And it's not like whoever comes first will get first served, and others won't get anything again. So this is also part of a good payment solution, that creditors play their role, but in a fair and fair way. The creditor is therefore on a break for a year, but ultimately it is paid, because the debt remains on hold. And, as usual, a court order is required to collect that debt, if it is not polite. But then the creditor should not do so himself; as usual, the bailiff should use that. I think that is an important point, because that can also protect the parents. Because the bailiff, and that is what I wanted to ask the Secretary of State, can of course see in the register that the family is under the pause test and that as a bailiff, he cannot ask for anything. So the creditor shouldn't do it directly. That should never happen, not now, but the bailiff is also a protection for the parents in the break year. I expect the Secretary of State to confirm this, if I understand correctly. But of course, that is what hits you, and that is the other side of the matter, the creditor's right of ownership, because a debt is, of course, an asset. And I am also pleased that there is a separate opinion from the JenV Ministry on the possible conflict with creditors' property rights. That opinion clearly states that it is proportional, because it is a temporary measure that also helps creditors to reflect the overall debt position. It is not black and white, but our group can live with this. Our question to the Secretary of State is whether there can be any other legal bears on the road. We'll have to shoot him, but she might have an inventory of it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Wilders motion. It is quite exciting, because it states that the private debt is taken over by the government if it is necessary. "If it is necessary": who decides and how does it work? Are there any unreasonable debts? Are all debts unreasonable? How exactly is that going? You have already promised in the debates that it will be explained to the benefit of the parents. I think that's the right starting point. But there will also be creditors who say, "Well, if the government pays for everything, then the government is screwed. Then I'm going to sit back, because the government is going to pay sometime." Actually, they might be entitled to that, too. At least they have a legitimate claim, but we can still appeal to them, especially to large, wealthy companies, to take their own social responsibility, because they have always booked in that they never make it all. But I hope that will be a passable road and that will come out. On the other hand, there are also, of course, less capital-intensive creditors, such as family or SMEs. They must, of course, also have the full support of the Secretary of State. You should also have the full support of our group to keep these people safe. Mr. Chairman. We are therefore happy to instruct you to be firm in this, so that the blame itself and the position of the parents can be quickly clarified, bringing parents into a calmer water and making a new, debt-free start. For that is the least we are obliged to do if the damage caused by the government is not to increase further. I wish you every success and I look forward to the answers to the questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr Crone. I assume by "you" in this case, you mean the Secretary of State, otherwise I'll be busy in my next job. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the treatment of the Tax Plan in December, several groups in this Chamber found that it really went far too slowly to repair the unprecedented injustice that many thousands of parents have suffered in the supplementing affair. Yes, it had to be careful, but as far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State could not continue to use that argument to justify delay on delay. Just before Christmas, after the publication of the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee, it turned out to be possible to do so faster. On TV it was announced that all parents would receive a flat-rate compensation of €30,000. A generous gesture, but still a gesture that, partly because of the way in which it was announced, caused a lot of uncertainty and confusion to parents at first, among other things because parents rightly feared that all kinds of creditors would immediately be on the doorstep. They also seemed to be reporting, including the Tax Office itself. That was then corrected, but it took a while before that was corrected. That also raises the question of whether the Secretary of State could not have seen this coming in advance, especially with regard to public debt. More generally, there is still a bit of an impression of a scheme that was not well thought out, in which thought-through only came afterwards, after all the confusion, uncertainty and despair with a large number of parents. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. My group therefore still has a few questions to ask, first of all, about the fairness of an arrangement where less severely injured people receive more compensation on the basis of the €30,000 scheme than those who suffer more. The most severely affected do not receive this overcompensation and are likely to have to wait the longest for full recovery, because they are complex and difficult cases. What is the basic justification for the Secretary of State for this, my group asks. Is that because the Secretary of State really didn't see any other way to speed things up? Is it really impossible, in her opinion, to compensate for the real damage more quickly? Isn't this €30,000 scheme also a bit of an inability to act? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. There are a few questions about the amendment that has already been discussed, also extended in the House of Representatives, about a one-year moratorium on the private debts of parents, also known as 'the pause button'. We asked about the legal sustainability of this. This was also asked for in the Lower House. Frankly, the Secretary of State has not yet been able to remove our doubts on this point. Because what exactly is the legal basis? The Secretary of State writes, I quote, that "the assessment of the application of the moratorium in a specific situation is ultimately up to the courts'. But what if, contrary to the intentions of the legislator in an individual case, the judge decides that the moratorium does not apply, but then has consequences for many other cases? In other words, what if the judge refers the whole moratorium to the trash can? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that this will not happen and that this part of the law will therefore remain legal? If not, what is the scenario to prevent parents with problematic debts from still having little or nothing left of that €30,000? In that situation, how will the Secretary of State ensure that parents do not get bailiffs on the sidewalk and still cannot start a clean slate? So what's the plan "B"? Mr. Chairman. In its reply, the Secretary of State stresses that "the purpose of the recovery operation is to ensure that the injured parents can proceed with their lives as much debt-free as possible'. My group notes the phrase 'as much as possible', a phrase that comes back several times: starting as much as possible with a clean slate; leaving as much as possible of the €30,000. What's "as much as possible"? How clean will the slate be on average? Why can't the Secretary of State just promise that, with or without a pause button, that €30,000 will not go to creditors, so not part of it, but parents can really make a new start, not "as much as possible" but simply "a new start, point"? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I also refer to the Wilders motion adopted in the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to another question. What if the one-year break turns out not to be enough? That was just mentioned by my colleague from GroenLinks. The answer given by the Secretary of State to this question in the written round is only that, if it turns out that it is not feasible to reach a solution within one year, the Secretary of State, I quote again, 'will take timely and transparent action on it'. That is not entirely reassuring for my group. What kind of "timely and transparent action"? Can the Secretary of State clarify this and reassure us, but above all the parents, on this point? Mr. Chairman. That promise about the $30,000 is there now. That is why the most important thing now is that it is actually being realized. That is really the expensive duty this Secretary of State and this government have undertaken. It can't be another broken promise. So can we pay the government for this, also that the parents receive this amount by 1 May at the latest? We have no doubt that the Secretary of State, I think with this Chamber as a whole, is convinced that there is only one goal: full recovery for all victims as soon as possible and compensation for the unprecedented injustice. But with good intentions alone, we won't get there. My group wants to continue to deal with the government, either decommissioned or not, on promises made, so we too will continue to monitor the progress of the whole recovery operation and come back to this on a subsequent occasion. The Secretary of State says he has confidence in the implementation of this. As far as we are concerned, this has yet to be demonstrated, including recent experience. So control is better. We know the Secretary of State's job isn't an easy one. We wish her much wisdom. But whatever the government has destroyed, the government will now have to recover as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u7	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Voort of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u8	Mr President, what a pleasure to have another debate under your presidency. Welcome to the Secretary of State. We are talking again today about the allowances, in particular the recovery operation of the childcare allowance affair. In this case for everyone, but especially for the affected parents, a successful recovery process is necessary. Due to a delay in handling, the government is now putting forward an occasional supplementary budget to finance a lump sum of €30,000 for the notified parents before 1 May. My group would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the written questions, which certainly contributes to understanding and to supporting the legislative proposal before us. It still feels a little uncomfortable that both parents who are entitled to a limited refund and parents who are entitled to a much larger refund receive €30,000. My predecessors have already pointed this out. This equal treatment leads to inequality in overcompensation. However, we understand and agree with the considerations underlying this decision. The most striking aspect is the amendment to protect parents from creditors, in particular private creditors. It is important to look closely at this, because it must be a support and help for the parents that should not cause tension, disappointment and sadness again. The amendment regulates protection for one year. In answering the written questions, it has not yet become clear to us in detail what the Secretary of State will do in that year to prevent creditors being able to claim that money afterwards. Can the Secretary of State make another floor in that? Mr. Chairman. We are confident that this amendment will keep creditors at bay. In a letter, Justice and Security described and explained its confidence in this construction. Can the Secretary of State confirm that JenV has not only tested the present construction, but has also examined whether there are any alternative ways that creditors can commit to surprise parents? We wanted to ask that question. As far as we are concerned, one point in the written reply has not yet been fully clarified: the provision of information to parents. I understand that when the €30,000 is awarded, the parents will be informed about the possible exchange of information with creditors. At the time when a bailiff knocks on the door of the parents and they report that they are covered by the moratorium, the creditor, I presume, checks with the Tax Administration/Applications or an authorised authority or so. How do parents know whether information about them is being exchanged and how do they know that the creditor cannot claim the debt for the time being? Can the Secretary of State outline to me what implementation is going to look like in practice and what information exchange is going to be about and with the parents? After all, communicating with the parents, even more than about the parents, helps a little bit to restore mutual trust. Our question to the Secretary of State is whether she shares our view that a transparent information provision helps to build a renewed trust. Mr. Chairman. We intend to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, but, of course, we look forward to answering the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u9	Thank you. I call Mr Essers of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill marks yet another stage in the drama of the childcare allowance case, and it will certainly not be the final stage. However, it is to be welcomed that compensation for the affected parents is now at the heart of the matter. It is also a good thing that this bill shows that the government wants to use this compensation to achieve optimum speed and to transfer the €30,000 promised to the disabled parents by 1 May of this year. All this can count on our warm support. The same applies to the government's efforts to give parents the peace and space to prevent them from seeing the amount received immediately disappear in the form of repayment of debts to private creditors. However, this agreement with the government's intentions and, in particular, with this Secretary of State, must not close our eyes to the need to provide adequate legal basis for the legislative proposal chosen by the government and the House of Representatives. The amendment which provides for a statutory cooling-off period of one year, in which creditors cannot recover their claims against the injured parents, was submitted at a late stage during the proceedings in the Lower House. No opinion has been requested from the Council of State, although it implies a substantial, substantive change to the supplementary budget bill. According to a letter from the Minister for Legal Protection dated 11 February last, it is 'defendable' that the amendment providing for the moratorium is not contrary to Article 1 of the First Protocol of the ECHR, the right of ownership. This does not rule out the possibility for the court to reach a different conclusion. The document of the Ministry of Justice and Security also does not mention case-law or views in the literature that see in this or similar case and support the department's position or not. This means that there are no conclusive guarantees as to the legal sustainability of the amendment. That is what this Chamber is proposing for an extra difficult consideration. On the one hand, we want the government to comply with the commitments made to parents as soon as possible. On the other hand, this Chamber guarantees the quality of legislation. In normal circumstances, a request to the Council of State for an opinion on the sustainability of the amendment in the light of Article 1, First Protocol of the ECHR, would be the appropriate way to obtain a better legal basis. Given the speed required, this should be an urgent opinion request. Our urgent question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she is prepared to do so. That could then be between today and next week, when we are going to vote on this. Is it prepared to do so or is it likely to see other options for the requested additional legal basis in the short term? I am not asking for this to be the last word on the legal 100%, but rather to have, in the interests of parents, the best possible legal basis, which is not or at least not at risk of being taken down by the judge. Finally, we ask the Secretary of State to indicate when it will implement the motion for a resolution, which was adopted unanimously, to discuss with the General Court the legality, computability and legal sustainability of the compensation policy. Can it inform us about the progress of this consultation? We look forward with confidence to the Secretary of State's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u11	The debate on the legal sustainability of a debt break button has also been conducted extensively in the House of Representatives. This was also about the response of the VenJ ministry that it is proportional. So you should not, I think, deal with the question of whether it is justified. The question is: what is your own view of proportionality? We are part of the legislative process. So whatever the Council of State would advise, I don't know if I'm in favour of it. In the end, we have to make the final weighing. 'Cause nobody gives that 100% certainty. That's what you say. And that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u12	I fully agree with Mr Crone. But the point is that we need to be provided with sufficient material to make that assessment in the end. My position is that the document from the Ministry of Justice and Security does not meet that requirement. That's not enough. The right statements can be found, but they are not substantiated. There is no mention of literature, nor of case law, which must be very much present at the ECHR, which sees similar cases. We have no evidence to check whether this has sufficient force if it is submitted to the court by a creditor. That's my point. And I'm looking for more comfort in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u13	Yeah, but my question was, what does the CDA think? Do you consider this consideration to be justified? Then it cannot be legally sustainable, but do you think it is justified for creditors to hold their breath for a while? It's a maximum, isn't it? In some cases it might be solved faster, but there's gonna be a breather. The creditors know these parents are in trouble, so they might be mentally saying "I'm fine with that." Isn't that also your own political consideration? Do you think this is a good idea? That's different from the doubt you're expressing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u14	We can agree with the idea as such. We will have to realise that creditors may also be entrepreneurs affected by the corona crisis and who may not be able to go out to collect certain claims. That being the case, we are in a crisis situation. You have to act carefully, but that is without prejudice... We were also before curfew, but you have to provide legal support, otherwise you will be confronted with a judge who can't go any other way than say that this is contrary to Article 1 of the ECHR. So I would like nothing more than to support this, but I do think that our position is mandatory on the basis of a thorough legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u15	Thank you, Mr. Essers. I call Mrs Geerdink... Sorry, Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u16	Mr. Chairman. In this supplementary budget of the Ministry of Finance of 2 billion in connection with the flat-rate compensation of €30,000, the amendment of the Lodders/Van Weyenberg to another law, the tax law Awir, to take a break was accepted in the House of Representatives/Van Weyenberg, in order to introduce a moratorium. The aim is to ensure that private creditors will not be able to claim compensation of €30,000 for one year. It's an advance for May 1st. This in itself does not deserve the beauty prize: a tax law in a budget chapter, without the Minister of Finance. The amendment has more the character of a letter of amendment than of an amendment, partly in view of the very detailed explanations given by the two applicants. I do not want to dwell too long on it, but it remains a bit of a sub-category of state law, all the more so if it is true that the text was drawn up by the Ministries of Finance and Justice. It was at the request of the ministers, I ask. Was it because after the so-called compensation decision of January with five recovery schemes, a storm of criticism was released because of the risk that public and private creditors would seize that €30,000? For the public creditors, the cabinet quickly settled, but the private area was still open. That is why this amendment is included in the budget. Here, moreover, it is avenged that the compensatory path followed by the Ministry of Finance and three Rutte Cabinets was and remains one long agony. Compensation should have been applied and implemented much earlier. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The route of the amendment is of great importance, because the Council of State, Essers, pointed out, has not been able to give an opinion on this important amendment, because that is what it is. It is an expropriation of private rights, albeit temporarily, for one year. But when does a temporary expropriation turn into a final one? I'd like a response. The answer from the State Secretary was that the Lower House did not ask for an opinion from the Council of State. That's not very strong. Why didn't they ask for advice? So now we have to do it with a letter from the Minister for Legal Protection, who asked the Chamber to do so. The question was whether the one-year break could be contrary to the ECHR Treaty, which also deals with the protection of property rights. The Minister considers that this is not the case, because it is a temporary expropriation, but he acknowledges that the judgment is also up to the judge. This view has not been reviewed by experts nor by literature. My group has asked about the opinion of the cabinet on Article 17 of the EU Charter, which also deals with the protection of property. The answer from the Secretary of State does not convince our group. Firstly, the test under the EU Charter differs from that under the ECHR, as detailed in the international peer review study. Secondly, since the Court judgment of 24 September 2020 under the name YS (C-223/19), it is clear that the right to property as laid down in the EU Charter can have direct horizontal effect. Private creditors can therefore invoke this article directly against a creditor. This operation lacks the ECHR. The cabinet can't deny this. I'd like a response. It is a very nasty situation if the construction of the amendment is not legally waterproof. Pofessor van Meerten stated the following in his contribution to the round table in the House of Representatives on 4 November. Firstly, it has been argued by the government that the ECHR test or entry into European law is the same under EU law. According to our group and according to Van Meerten, this is wrong. The justification for the infringement of the right of ownership from defined benefit to defined contribution is different under EU law than under the ECHR. The fact that the explanatory statement to the Charter says something else does not, in his opinion, mean anything. This one has no legal value. The EU legal system is clearly different from that of the ECHR. The transition from defined benefit to defined contribution affects the essential content of pension rights. This criterion is new, and very recently established by the aforementioned court in the judgment, in response to the request made by the Wiener Neustadt Landesgericht in Austria. I refer specifically to section 92 of the 99-part ruling. At the request of the Lower House, Professor Van Meerten gave a further explanation of his position on property rights on 13 November. I quote. "Great difference between ECHR and EU Charter is: Fund management and social partners can be held directly liable under the EU Charter if they have been wrongly involved in entering. In the jargon this is called the direct, horizontal functioning of the EU Charter." This means that the next reading of the government, also to be read in literature, must be put in a different light. The cabinet says: "It is particularly unlikely that the pension fund will be liable by participating in boarding because Article 1, first protocol, ECHR, does not have a horizontal effect. The ECHR and the EU Charter are the same in this respect. The assessment of ownership vis-à-vis a pension fund would be different from a review of vis-à-vis a state. Proceedings may be brought directly to the courts in The Hague, where appropriate, through the Charter."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u17	There is a question from Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u18	I'm a little confused. Maybe you can help me out of that. I think the story you're telling is about pensions. Now we're talking about the supplemental affair. Perhaps you could give me a little clarity in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u19	I have just gone into it in detail, in the hope that it is clear to everyone. I refer to Article 17 of the Charter, on which Professor Van Meerten gave his opinion twice in autumn, at the request of the House of Representatives. I'm just quoting that. It was about pensions, but here, as with pensions, it is about ownership. Apart from pensions or not, it is a question of whether, in addition to the ECHR, Article 17 of the EU Charter is also relevant to the question of whether ownership is protected or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u20	So where do you deduce that this is applicable to the present bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u21	Because this is a temporary expropriation, as stated in the letter from the Minister for Legal Protection, which he does not call expropriation because it is temporary. In addition, he also says that the judgment is or may be the judge at the latest. So we're talking about expropriation. Expropriation, or protection of property rights, is at issue in the ECHR, to which the Minister for Legal Protection responded at the request of the Lower House. However, Article 17 of the Charter has not been discussed and should be discussed in the opinion of Professor Van Meerten and my group, as will certainly be the case later on in the debate on the new pension law. After all, we are talking about 'entry' and 'property or not impairment'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u22	Mr Van der Voort for the third and last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u23	I wanted to thank you for this explanation. It is not quite clear to me yet, but at least thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u24	Proceed, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u25	I need to see where I left off, Mr. Chairman. My group is so concerned about the risk that the court of provisions may dismiss this amendment that we urgently ask the Secretary of State to ask the Council of State for its own opinion on ownership of this amendment before next week's vote. I'd like to hear if the Secretary of State is prepared to do so. Minister Dekker's letter was not substantiated and contained only a conclusion. Can specific advice be sought on the meaning of Article 17 of the EU Charter in relation to the ECHR, as pointed out by Professor Van Meerten, and now in relation to this amendment? We had asked the Secretary of State for expert advice in the written procedure, and that was unfortunately not given. Mr. Chairman. We in the First Chamber cannot afford to give our approval to a law that could be killed in court. That is why we are asking for the greatest possible security here tonight in the interests of the victims. In any case, we do not want to delay in any way. Finally, can the Secretary of State make a clear commitment that there will be clear communication with those concerned about the relationship between recovery schemes and flat-rate compensation? Can she further promise that she will have direct contact with them in advance? Finally, Mr President. We do not escape raising a new drama with the surcharges following the Volkskrant article last Saturday. Can the Secretary of State undertake full compensation, both for the group between 2010 and 2014 and for the group between 2014 and 2016? Those groups have not received the compensation so far, because these people are not to be found. This amounts to 15 million. Mr President, thank you for your leadership, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u26	Thank you. I call Mrs Geerdink of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you say "a," say "b." A is in this case a commitment of a lump sum compensation of €30,000 before 1 May to the injured parents of the supplement affair and b is the legislation or an amendment that creates a moratorium, a pause button, of one year in order to allow parents who are affected to move on with their lives as much debt-free as possible. A recovery from a recovery of a recovery. June last year, as First Chamber, we approved the first recovery operation. It was based on customization and humanity. The operation is too slow and hence the second coarse recovery action, which is €30,000. In order to achieve this second recovery operation, the third recovery measure is now in the pipeline, a moratorium which, fortunately, is based on customisation and attention. The note following the report states that the cabinet itself considered an arrangement, but that it was no longer necessary, because the House of Representatives recommended an arrangement. Would the arrangement envisaged by the cabinet have had the same effect? Wouldn't it have been better and perhaps more careful to handle it yourself? This brings me to the test of the legal sustainability and effectiveness of the moratorium. The Minister for Legal Protection has considered that the amendment is a temporary amendment, and we have discussed it earlier. It is proportional to the exercise of the right of ownership of creditors, for which there are sufficient justifications, which makes the amendment justifiable in the light of Article 1 of the First Protocol of the ECHR. The note following the report states that the moratorium is not at odds with the Bankruptcy Act and that the final assessment is up to the court. It seems that the basis is sufficiently well thought out. We would ask the Secretary of State to reflect on the legality and effectiveness of the amendment. Then to the performance. Everything is aimed at drawing a line through the misery caused by the government and to be able to continue. This requires a lot of consultation with public and private creditors. What is the status of these consultations at the moment? Are the creditors willing to cancel the debts? What real expectations does the government have in this respect? Parents who receive €30,000 will first be informed that their data are shared to the extent necessary to maintain the moratorium or to find a solution to their debts. It is not necessary to ask for permission, according to the note on the basis of the report. Why isn't it necessary to ask permission? Is it not more careful to inform the parents, whether through their business manager or not, and to ask permission? Doesn't it lead to more understanding when the parents know what is being done? This is in their own interest, but also in the interest of the Tax Administration/Applications. Mr. Chairman. We have been said a year further, b Either the creditors do not want to cooperate, or the parents create new debts again, or the majority of the debts consisted of criminal convictions or other public debts that cannot and cannot be forgiven. "Then the government takes timely and transparent action": this has been mentioned here more often, as we read in the note on the report. But what are we supposed to think about? The VVD understands and supports the moratorium. The promise of €30,000 is a debt. The State must fulfill its promise. Hopefully a good example will do the trick. You have to do what you promise and say what you're doing to start with a concrete solution for the parents, to start with the fourth crucial recovery: restoring trust. Mr. Chairman. The VVD looks forward with interest to the answers to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u28	Thank you. I call Mr Schalk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u29	Thank you, Madam President. I was somewhat surprised, but it is good that it is my turn to speak on this difficult subject. Madam President. The supplemental affair will remember us for a long time. I note that several other dossiers in which tension between government and citizens is felt are already linked to this surcharge affair. I'm talking about government failure. I am referring not only to the government, but also to the parliament, the judiciary and the tax administration. It must fill us all with shame. There are still many words to be said, but it is now a question of action. Care must be taken as soon as possible to ensure that the need is met, as complete and fair as possible. In the Lower House, the State Secretary reported that she told parents that the government will pay out the €30,000 to anyone who reports before 15 February. That date is now over. I assume the Secretary of State can call us the exact number of families who have come forward. How many families are we talking about? What is the status of actual implementation? In particular, the date of 15 February raises new questions. How are those who did not report until 16 February, or perhaps earlier, on 20 January? And how will it be for those who are not due to report in a few months' time? Can the Secretary of State give you an insight into that? Can she promise a new date on which the injured will receive money, for example, before 1 May? Is there a schedule for that? Mr. Chairman. It's about a substantial amount of money. If 25,000 people have reported, the sum is quite simple: 750 million. That's not easy, but what needs to be done. However, as far as my group is concerned, there is still no clarity on the question of funding. It is rumored that a colleague of the Secretary of State is trying to tell some of the families by dealing with family allowances and freezing them for a few years. Can the Secretary of State say that this is not going to happen? In response to written questions, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment stated that families with children would indeed decline in purchasing power. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats really does not think that this is possible. After all, in that case, families will be recaptured, presumably, indeed, even the 23,000 families that now have to be compensated. That can't and shouldn't be the intention, can it? In the House of Representatives it has been said that it will be decided later and that this can be dealt with in a bill to be submitted. But my group takes the view that it must be very clear that a repair of misery does not reach the citizens who are part of the problem to a greater extent than necessary. What is the response of the Secretary of State to this matter? Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words. An amendment was adopted in the House of Representatives which regulates a kind of cooling-off period of one year. There was still a great deal of uncertainty about the precise implementation and it was said that there are still risks for this effect. What's going on with that? Is there any contact with creditors about the implementation of this amendment, for example? And in line with this: what is the situation with the cancellation of debts by private creditors, or the taking over of these debts by the government? Mr. Chairman. Looking back, we have to note that the process surrounding this supplementing affair has gone on with bumps and bumps. Hopefully, the Secretary of State will manage to meet the financial need, knowing that the emotional damage is irreparable. My group therefore very much wishes all those affected to be strong in this respect. And, Mr President, I am, of course, looking forward to the answer and response from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u30	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Strien of the Party for Freedom has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that this Bill provides incidental supplementary budget for Finance 2021 on recovery supplements today. Of course, my group, as I assume the majority in this House, will support this proposal, a proposal in the context of the recovery operation for childcare allowances for the compensation of disabled parents. After all, no one wants to have on their consciences that there is further delay in this whole process. However, this does not mean that we no longer have any concerns, and that we do not have some very critical comments, both in terms of content and planning. We saw last week that in a few days this cabinet can correct a legal arrangement for the curfew if only the cabinet's stature is at stake. What a nasty contradiction with the time it takes to make and implement an adequate compensation scheme for parents who have been thrown into deep misery for years by this cabinet. Where parents were completely stripped of their clothes due to minor administrative errors or deception by host parents' agencies and have been in trouble for years, a mistake like that curfew is settled in a few days. This, while we're obviously having to think about the supplemental affair in years. Mr. Chairman. And the worst thing is that we fear that it has not yet been resolved quickly. In the Lower House, the Wilders motion was adopted, which requests the cabinet to take over the private debts of the victims if necessary, so that they can spend the promised €30,000 on their own accord and not lose it to all kinds of private creditors. This was a workable solution that could lead to rapid results. However, the law, which is now before us, amended with the well-meaning amendment by Mr Lodders/Van Weyenberg, seems to contain a great deal of legal uncertainty as to its sustainability. A year of rest and space; that sounds wonderful, but for whom are those peace and quiet? I fear that people who are in trouble now will not be able to enjoy that peace and space. On the contrary, these people are probably up for another year of trouble and are just running the risk of getting caught up by private creditors and new legal proceedings, while an adopted Wilders motion solves those problems. Why is this motion not carried out in full? Mr. Chairman. All this seems to me to be the reason why the incidental supplementary budget, which normally goes through this Chamber as a hammer piece, is explicitly on the table today with no less than ten speakers. My request to the Secretary of State is therefore to remove these serious concerns and now finally to give guarantees for a speedy handling. Mr. Chairman. I await with interest the response of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u32	You rightly quoted the phrase in the Wilders motion that the debts are taken over by the State if necessary. Can you elaborate on that? Because you can imagine that is quite a stretchy concept. Is it necessary for the parents to cancel all debts? I suppose so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u33	Necessary for the parents, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u34	So the creditors can sit back, because the government will pay everything, even if you think that those debts have been wrongly made and have nothing to do with the tax and the child storage affair as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u35	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u36	Whether it is true that all debts are simply taken over, because it does not stand for nothing 'if necessary'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u37	This concerns all the debts incurred by the families affected by this debacle. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u38	Mr Crone still? No. Thank you, Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u40	Does one of the Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, how much time do you think you need? Fifteen minutes? Twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u41	We have arrived at the government's first-term responses. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Supplements and Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My idea was to do the answer as follows. First of all, I'm going to make a brief introduction. Then I come to the implementation of the recovery operation and the €30,000 scheme. Then I come to the debt approach and then to the legal basis for the moratorium. And then there are a number of questions that do not fall into these categories. So I have five blocks in total. Madam President. The last time we debated with your Chamber was at the beginning of December. We then talked about the Tax Plan and the improvements in the surcharge system, and certainly also about the recovery operation. Since then, a number of important steps have been taken in the recovery for the parents who have been affected by the problems with the childcare allowance. At the end of last year we helped the parents in acute distress, and for the holidays all parents who were not yet in their turn received a payment of €750 as compensation for waiting. But the experiences we gained in the last few months of last year also taught us that doing justice to those who were hurt in view of their personal situation lasted longer than was desirable. Together with the parent looking at exactly what had happened, understanding exactly what had gone wrong and then putting together a good compensation, often cost up to 100 hours or more per situation, per parent, per family. That meant that we could foresee that we would need a very long time to help all parents. That has led, together with the discussion we have had about it in the House of Representatives and in your Chamber, to the fact that we have taken additional measures. It is for this reason that, at the end of December, the cabinet decided to speed up and broaden the compensation scheme for parents, also on the basis of the findings of the report on unprecedented injustice, and to make the necessary budget available for that purpose. A total of EUR 1.7 billion is now available for this purpose. We will speed up the operation by allocating a minimum amount of €30,000 to the disabled parents who are eligible for it after a light test. Expanding has a lot to do with the fact that in the law we discussed here last July, which contained several regulations, we combined two schemes, so that all parents are eligible for the widest form of compensation. This means that in addition to the money they have unjustly paid back or that they have not received, they will receive compensation of about 30% of that amount for damages. Moreover, it is still possible for parents to receive an integral assessment, because, as some of you have said, there are of course parents who have suffered much more financial damage than the €30,000 we are going to pay out between now and 1 May. Parents can of course always ask for such an assessment, because they also like to understand what happened. I know, for example, that the parents I have spoken to are now that more than 220 people want to understand very often what happened, and therefore not always find financial satisfaction sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u43	I would like to touch on the last point and go back to what the Secretary of State said at the beginning of her introduction, namely that there is an acceleration. Does that also apply to that last category of parents? Is it not the case that people who have had to repay more than €30,000, or whose total damage exceeds that amount, now have to wait longer, because priority is given to implementing the €30,000 measure, in order to get that money into the bank account of disabled parents before 1 May? The integrated treatment or assessment will therefore take much more time. Doesn't that acceleration work out unevenly for different categories of parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u44	Fortunately, that's not the case. In your introduction, you also said something about it. What we are doing in addition to paying out the €30,000 is continuing with the full assessment of parents who have reported to us and who have been given a commitment that, for example, they will be treated by us in full in the first quarter. We will continue to do so. In addition, we have two regulations that are very important. Parents who are in an acute or distressing situation may take advantage of the opportunity to be helped earlier. We did that before Christmas, but parents who are still reporting and indicating that they are in serious trouble, for example because they are in danger of being evicted from their homes, can be helped rather. We also still have the so-called emergency provision that makes it possible to pay earlier. What we do is to pay out the €30,000 to any parent who is eligible by using the light test. To the parents who have checked in before 15 February, we pay out before 1 May. In addition, we will continue with our business managers to make the full assessments, which are, if necessary, necessary for, in particular, the parents who are entitled to a higher amount. Moreover, it remains the case that parents can continue to apply until 2023. That's how the law works. They can do that because after receiving the first €30,000 they want a further assessment of their case. It also applies to parents who have already reported and want an integral assessment and say: for me this €30,000 is not enough. Whether it's financially insufficient for them or they're asking because they want to understand better: we just keep helping them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u45	I've heard the Secretary of State in the Lower House say she's doing and-and-and-doing. It is therefore parallel and the integrated assessments are also continued. Did I listen to her correctly that she says she's accelerating with those integral reviews? Is there any speeding up on what was the picture before Christmas? Because that's not the picture I have. It is often said that we are speeding up, but that is true of those who are up to the limit of €30,000. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u46	It is being accelerated in the sense that anyone who has reported to us will receive a sum. The integrated assessments could be somewhat faster, because some parents might say: I'm ready if I get €30,000 now; then I don't need an integral assessment anymore and I think it's enough. This could apply, for example, to parents where the financial damage was much lower than that amount. This could lead to a small acceleration. In principle, therefore, we will continue to carry on with the integrated assessments as we have agreed with the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u47	Mr Van Apeldoorn, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u48	Yeah, finally. The parents who belong to the severely injured and who, for example, wrongly had to repay €40,000 to the Tax Office, are entitled to double that amount if you involve the material damage and other measures. Then what is the perspective for them when it comes to the integral assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u49	There are actually three perspectives for those parents. Some of the parents have already been helped. They have already received higher amounts than the €30,000, for example in the past year. There is a group of parents who have received a letter from us that they will be assessed in full in the first quarter of this year. We're gonna help those parents, too. If they are entitled to more than €30,000, they will also receive more than that €30,000. Parents who have been duped, but are not yet fully assessed are actually getting the third category anyway €30,000. If they are in a very poignant situation, we can always help them sooner. But there will also be parents who still want to be assessed in full and think they have more than €30,000 damage. We will continue to help them in the course of the year, or even in the course of the year thereafter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u51	I'll continue with my introduction. The issue of broadening and accelerating the scheme was discussed. We did that just before last year's Christmas. Of course, it is always possible for parents who have more than €30,000 damages to actually get them reimbursed, as I have just said. Parents can always ask us to find out for them. At the moment more than 24,000 parents have reported; there was a question about that. This is compared to the approximately 10,000 parents who had reported to us on 22 December, i.e. at the end of last year. We are making an extreme effort to pay them all before 1 May. So those are the people who called in before February 15th. We also expect 3,000 people to pay out €30,000 this month. I am pleased to inform your Chamber that I have a great deal of appreciation for the commitment of all the people working at the Implementing Organisation for Recovery Fees. It is mainly because of their unbridled commitment that these results can be reported. Work is done day in, day out, even in evenings and weekends, even when that work is sometimes difficult, because other or additional decisions are taken by us or by me or by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u52	After these fine words of appreciation, there is a question from Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u53	I think that the Secretary of State will undoubtedly be addressing the people who reported it later than 15 February, on the timetable that goes with it. I was a little shocked by her remark that she is going to make an extreme effort before 1 May, for those who are going to... I think that was a very firm commitment. Could the Secretary of State comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u54	It is. It is also recalled in the House of Representatives that it is an expensive duty to do so. I believe that one of you, Mrs Geerdink, also mentioned this. So that's what we're gonna do. It is also my intention to do so. What, of course, still plays a role in this is the subject of the moratorium we are talking about. If parents are in debt, I want to make sure that all is well arranged, but I have good hope that we can do so. Again, it is also my intention to actually do so, because I think it is so important that parents are really helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u55	So that means that you say that it could only be difficult for the people who can be affected by this moratorium to arrive after 1 May, in consultation with them, but for everyone else by 1 May at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u56	There may be people who say for whatever reason that they do not want to be paid out at that time, but we are going to do it, and the moratorium is working to make this possible. In doing so, I can ensure that people who have debts that have not all been settled before 1 May are settled even though I would love it if that could actually receive that money. So at least we're gonna get to work on that payout. Then I would like to move on to another point. When we made the first payouts to parents at the end of last year, it turned out that many disabled parents are in serious financial difficulties and often in debt. That has led us to the work we have done. In discussions with the House of Representatives we said that it is incredibly important that if parents are compensated, they can actually make a new start in their lives and that that start should also be without debt, with a clean slate. We've done a lot of work on that. In the end, we have come to the conclusion that it is important for parents to be given such a clean lead. A clean slate, debt-free, has also led to the understanding that we have said: we must also find a solution to this. That solution is that we, as public creditors, the cabinet, have said that we will cancel all debts. This applies not only to the Tax Administration/Applications, but also to justice, UWV, the CAK, DUO, for all parties where there is public debt. In the meantime, we are also working together with those parties to translate this into the actual implementation of this regulation. And then comes the theme of the private creditors. Actually, you could divide those into two large categories, which was also discussed by some of you. There are large private creditors such as banks, insurers, housing corporations, energy companies and telecom entrepreneurs. With the umbrella of these organizations I am in discussion to find a solution to the debt problem. I think it's incredibly important that they get rid of the debts. We must then see how we can find a solution with them, in order to ensure that, in addition to the large public creditors, the large private creditors in the debt package, in other words, have disappeared from all parents. In principle, on average, 80% of parents' debt positions are then accounted for. Of course, there is that third category of creditors, in addition to the public and the large private ones; these are the smaller private creditors, and they can also be creditors in the family sphere or in the circle of friends. Together with municipalities, I am looking at how, in line with the debt relief normally provided by municipalities, they can identify the debt portfolio and also find a solution to these smaller debts. And in line with what has been agreed or indicated in the Wilders motion, we could also play a role in this. So the budget we are discussing today is not just about the supplementary scheme, the scheme for the €30,000, the extension of the compensation scheme, but also about how we can deal with this debt problem, and that moratorium is of course also important for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u57	So you're talking to these big private creditors. Can the Secretary of State also tell us how this conversation is going now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u58	Yes, I can. So I talked to the domes of these creditors and asked what they could do in terms of forgiveness. In fact, they have indicated that we would like to think along with you, but we would like to have an idea of what we are actually talking about. And that in itself is a justified question, because when you say "I'm gonna cancel the debts," you also want to understand what you're talking about. That is one of the reasons why it is also important that the amendment that has been added to the law also contains something on this issue of data sharing, namely that we can do so in a very secure way with these parties, so that we can see which people are involved, they can initially stop the recovery, but then I can also make further agreements with them on the cancellation of those debts and what compensation should be appropriate for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u59	If I have understood the Secretary of State correctly, it is 80% of those private debts that are with the big ones. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u60	No. It is the combination of public debt and the large private creditors, which is about 80% of the portfolio. So the public are a little bigger than the private one. Again, it may vary per parent, of course, but on average about 60% of public creditors, and then there is still some, about 20% to 30%, among private creditors. And then there's the group of smaller creditors, the local gym, the bikemaker...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u61	No, I understand. What I'm actually looking for is to get an image. Two months of the year are almost over, so that's about a sixth of that one year moratorium, you might say. I know that goes from the moment of payout and everything, but I don't really want to get into technology. But just for the sense of it: will we at least manage to make agreements with those big private creditors?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u62	I'm assuming so. And the most important thing is that, in the short term, if this law is adopted, including that amendment that makes it possible to share data, we will be able to share data with those parties and make agreements with them. Frankly, I particularly hope that we will do so as soon as possible. And that also applies to the smaller creditors and the municipalities. The point is, of course, we do not want to take a year. The core is that we want parents out of debt as soon as possible, for the parents who are not currently in debt, but also for parents who are in legal debt. So I would like it to be dealt with as quickly as possible in all cases, but the moratorium will help to provide some rest and to sort it out quite well, because not all parents are clear to themselves about which parties they are still in debt. For example, I have met parents who have been in a legal debt relief process years ago, who have come out of it and where creditors now come back and say: benefits have been met. Well, we need to get a good picture of that, otherwise we won't settle for parents what we want to do, namely: debt-free; a clean slate; and that they can use the amount they get as much as possible as they can to start their future again, at least in the financial sense. So if you ask if that year is enough, I say that it must be more than enough, because I want it to be settled as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u64	The moratorium that is now in the law is a moratorium that is somewhat in line with what we know in friendly debt restructuring. If you get into trouble as a parent and report to the municipality, you can get into such a trajectory. That route will then help you temporarily, without being impounded, with the municipality to figure out your debts and make sure that you actually look at how to pay the various creditors. This moratorium therefore prevents creditors from visiting their parents. By the way, how does this work in practice? That was one of the points that some of you mentioned. I'd like to get back to that in a moment. So that period gives rest and space and gives the possibility to share data, so that we can actually make this happen. It's my expensive duty to make sure this happens as soon as possible. I just gave up on that. Besides, of course, the recovery of parents in terms of money, the financial component, we have also made agreements with municipalities to help parents in other areas, whether it is about living, work or mental health. Meanwhile, municipalities have started to call and approach parents, to help them where necessary. Together with the municipalities, we are working hard to achieve this. We have also set up a joint ministerial committee for this. Then there are a number of issues that we are still working on, which will also be discussed in your Chamber in the near future. We always include you in the progress reports we do. We want to make arrangements for the children of parents, because we know that many children are also hurt. We're still working it out. The same applies to ex-partners. Soon we will publish a scheme for parents that makes it possible to get free legal support, because many of them still want to use a lawyer who can help them. Of course, we cannot give all parents back the lost years, but we hope that with this expansion and acceleration we can take a good step towards recovery, in combination with the work of the municipalities. I hope it is also clear that with this supplementary budget we have also earmarked a large amount of money for this. I'm going to my second block, the questions related to the operation of the recovery operation. Mr Crone asked whether he had correctly reflected the flat-rate compensation scheme in his contribution. Your summary is correct, but the calculation example is not entirely correct. It is not the case that injured persons with a debt greater than €30,000 receive additional compensation in excess of that amount, but they receive additional compensation on the basis of, for example, the amount wrongly repaid or wrongly not received. On top of that, they get compensation. In reality, all KOT victims are entitled to the same scheme, but there is always at least that €30,000. This means that all those injured who receive 25% compensation. In addition, there are other elements of the compensation scheme. The money that has been wrongly recovered and what you have repaid will also be returned, supplemented by, for example, interest rates, fines or other items that we have charged you. Mr Van Apeldoorn's question about the most affected and the longest-waiters I have just answered on the basis of his interruption, I think. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn's question was: couldn't you have seen that coming with those debts? That was actually the most important question you asked. Yeah, we came up against those debts last year. Our scheme was initially focused on it, so we discussed it here too, so that the parents could in principle pay off their debts with the amount of compensation. But I ran into it and we ran into it that a lot of parents were much more in debt and should have done so often as a result of the problems that had arisen. For that reason, it was also necessary to really do something about these debts, in the sense that we wanted to make a compensation scheme for that. In any case, we wanted to cut public debt and make sure that the private debt was settled. It is also important that this is one of the reasons that emerged from the examination of the parliamentary interrogation committee.. was the distinction in regulations. In the schemes up to that time we made a distinction between the compensation scheme intended for parents who had been treated biased and what we wanted to give to all parents. The hardness as part of our compensation scheme was, in the first instance, too much that many parents were only affected by the harshness of the law. They would therefore not be eligible for compensation. We felt that it was necessary to bring these arrangements into line. Of course, it would be fantastic if we had done so at once, but I have to tell you quite frankly that in this dossier I am still not going to say that every day we are surprised by new insights, both in terms of the depth of the problem and in terms of the number of parents affected. In the past year we have certainly seen that it was therefore necessary regularly to adjust the route chosen for the recovery. Where necessary, we will. I hope, moreover, that it is not necessary too often, because I note that adjustments also lead to uncertainties or uncertainties in parents. I therefore hope, above all, that we do not have to do this too often, but at least we will be developing a child scheme and a scheme for ex-partners in the near future. Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mrs Karimi asked if the government could be dealt with if we are not done with this €30,000 arrangement before 1 May. Of course, you can take care of us. It is our expensive duty to transfer that amount to parents who are eligible and who also want to be paid by 1 May. More than 24,000 parents have reported in the meantime. A small 3,000 of them already have that amount in their accounts by the end of this month. We're calling parents every day now, making sure we've talked to them before we pay out, so we're sure that the money doesn't disappear in their debt portfolio right now, and also to make sure it goes to the right accounts. Not all parents are directly accessible, we notice. That's why we're now working on texting people in advance to announce that we're calling. Of course, there are always limits to what our implementation organisation can handle, but for the time being I am assuming that we can make this happen. Then there is Mr Schalk's question about what happens to people who came forward on 16 or 20 February, or at least after 15 February. In principle, the same regime will continue to apply to them. However, we cannot promise them that they will also be able to use the €30,000 scheme before 1 May, but we will do our best to transfer that amount to them as soon as they are eligible, or to make the full assessment if they so request. In principle, anyone who has registered before 15 February will be paid out before 1 May. Parents who come in later, we will give the €30,000 as soon as possible as it can afterwards, of course if they are also duped. I would like to turn to Mr Schalk's question about the fact that the financing of this scheme is not to be passed on to families with child benefit. A separate budget has been made for the recovery operation. This arrangement is therefore reserved separately. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. This means that this scheme does not come from a child benefit measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u65	However, I would like to say a few words about the expensive duty, the words I have used and the Secretary of State has taken over. I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State. I think she says: we put everything on everything, but I can't guarantee it. "For the time being, I'm assuming that," I've heard the Secretary of State say. I'd still like to understand what that condition is. The Secretary of State has said that the moratorium could make it clear that things need to be sorted out in relation to private debts and that we cannot yet make payments. But apart from that situation, I would also have questions about it, but I am not going to do so now, and the government has now opted for a light test. Then it's just a matter of transfer, isn't it? That shouldn't be so complicated, right? Or does the Secretary of State actually see bears on the road there? Does that mean that a lot of parents will be in uncertainty again in the sense of: gosh, maybe I won't get that €30,000 before 1 May; maybe it'll only be 1 August?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u66	Shortly and well, a large number of parents have checked in with us. We must indeed take that light test for them. Part of that is that we also call them in advance: can you receive that amount, is the bank account number correct? And so on, and so on. There might still be a problem with the parents we can't reach, even after all these weeks and months, but that's more a matter of not being able to get in touch. I hope that applies to as few parents as possible. There could also be parents who, for whatever reason, say: I do not want to receive that money at the moment. That could be a reason why the money is not yet being transferred to them. And there's a group of parents who are now in a legal debt relief process. We have to make additional agreements with them. I hope that works before May 1st. Again, I'm gonna do everything I can to get that done. We are working very hard on this. But in principle, we are able to do with the people we have here today the work we intended to do, namely to have the people who came forward before 15 February, tested and paid out to them before 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u67	One more time at that point. The Secretary of State says that it should be possible in principle; for the time being, I assume. But is it conceivable that the Secretary of State will come back in a month, probably not with us, but in the House of Representatives, and says: on second thought, all kinds of problems have arisen and we should postpone that deadline? Or does the Secretary of State say here: no, May 1st is the deadline and we're sticking to that? In such cases, it may, in exceptional cases, prevent this from being achieved, but it concerns parents who are not in the picture, who we cannot reach or who are in the rescue. Those are exceptions to the rule. Is that what the Secretary of State says? Or does she say: no, it could be that there are all kinds of complications that we cannot yet foresee? Then it turns out that the promise of 1 May wasn't really worth that much. Because that would, of course, cause trouble again for the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u68	I can say it's almost exactly what you're saying it's meant to be. Our commitment of 1 May applies to all parents who came forward before 15 February, but with those few points you mentioned. You say there may still be things that we do not know now. Yeah, I don't know about that either, but right now there's no reason to think we can't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u69	For the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u70	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. Then I insist that at least the SP Group will continue to deal with this promise by the Secretary of State and the Government. If there are unknown unknowns, that is to say unforeseen circumstances, I assume that the Secretary of State will act on them to ensure that it does come about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u71	I'm gonna do everything I can with the organization to make this happen. The unknown unknowns are, of course, not known at the moment, but once again: we have made this arrangement precisely because we are so keen to do that first benefit to the people, to make sure that they are helped. Everything will be done to make that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u72	Mr Schalk of the SGP Group also had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u73	I go back to the subject the Secretary of State was working on, the question I had asked about child benefit. At least that was not really clear in the House of Representatives, in the sense that it was reported in the House of Representatives that a significant part of the money would come from the Ministry of Finance, but that some of it might also be collected through the freezing of family allowances. Then it has been said: well, we do not need to talk about it now, because that is not yet on the agenda; that can be discussed in a possible draft law on this matter. My group does not think that this is a good idea. I have just been informed by the Secretary of State that it comes from the Treasury. Can she state clearly that it will not be removed from child benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u74	I can make a clear commitment to that. The money we have reserved, which is EUR 824 million for this €30,000 scheme, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and is not financed by a measure relating to family allowances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u75	Could the Secretary of State indicate what was meant when it was discussed that a bill might have something to do with that? Or does she just say, no, that's not the issue here? Then I think it's a clear commitment. It's not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u76	As far as I am concerned, it is not an issue and it does not matter here. Then I'm gonna go to the report on the debt approach. I shall begin with Mrs Geerdink's question on the effectiveness and legality of the scheme. What is regulated by the law and therefore by the amendment tabled in the House of Representatives is that there is indeed a temporary moratorium. That's up to a year. This, of course, also constitutes a temporary infringement of creditors' right of redress. But it's a temporary one. There is peace and space on the other side for the duped parent and it also helps to achieve a good solution for both creditors and parents. This is also mentioned in the letter from the Ministry of the Interior of JenV. Because that's the balance we're looking for. We want to make sure that parents have a clean slate, but we also want to help creditors. The aim of this moratorium is therefore both. There is therefore a balance between these two: taking care of both parents and creditors. In particular, this moratorium will help in this respect. If that were not the case, the first creditor would be able to report to a parent or court to confiscate a parent's assets via a bailiff. So in that sense, my view is that this is both effective and legitimate and that it fits within the balance sheet. Then there is Mrs Karimi, Mr Van Apeldoorn and a number of others. Is a year a maximum to come to a solution? What's going to happen if that year doesn't seem to be enough? I just said a little bit more about it. My intention is to reach a real solution within that year. In any case, this applies to the largest parts of the portfolio. We have now settled it for the public creditors and we would also like to resolve it as soon as possible for the private creditors. Then the parents can work together with municipalities with the remaining debts. There could be exceptional cases where more time is needed, for example for inventory or identification of debts. I referred to this in the reply to the written questions. I understand that in friendly debt relief routes, it takes about eight months on average. There will have to be customized. But I really assume that this is the case in exceptional situations and that in most cases we can actually find a solution. This solution can also mean that creditors either abandon their debts or that parents are very keen to pay creditors, for example when the debts are incurred by borrowing friends or family. Mr Van der Voort had the question of what exactly will happen in that year of the moratorium. Together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, with JenV, with Home Affairs and with the VNG, we are working to shape that path of debt cancellation. That's what happens on the public side. It then attempts to make arrangements with large creditors to ensure that these debts are also forgiven as much as possible and that they are resolved. I just said something about that. And then the step must be taken, together with municipalities, to create a solution for the remaining debts of parents. Of course, we want to work out that solution for every parent about who it is. This also requires an individual journey. We can, of course, look from the Empire at public creditors. We have looked into this and we have agreed to do so. We also looked at the large private parties. But there can of course be all kinds of parties to whom the parent is in debt or where there are claims. Of course, we want to try to solve that as best we can with parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u77	There is a question from Mr Van Apeldoorn, I suspect on the other point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u78	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps the Secretary of State had yet to come to it, but she had just answered my question and questions from Mr Karimi about that moratorium and whether it will all be possible within one year. Then the Secretary of State says: we expect it to succeed, but there may be cases where this becomes difficult, such as people in debt relief etc. et cetera et cetera; in complex cases it may take longer. I understand that, although I would say that you must do everything in your power to achieve this within a year, which is already a long time. But my question in the first term and also in the written round was actually a different one, namely: what happens to those parents, then what is the scenario for those parents who fail to do so within that year? Then the moratorium ends. Is that a sword of Damocles hanging over their heads and falling down quickly? Do they have to pay off the €30,000 to private creditors who come on the doorstep via the bailiff? Or does the Secretary of State say: no, at that moment we will immediately find another solution, for example in accordance with the Wilders motion, which says that if necessary the government must take over those private debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u79	Once again, I think this situation will be very limited. I hope so too, because I very much want parents to get out of debt much faster, whether or not they are part of a legal debt restructuring process or otherwise in debt. Legally speaking, it is true that after a year the moratorium will expire and creditors will, in principle, visit parents, but I would very much like to prevent that from happening. We're gonna have to take care of that. The Wilders motion can therefore play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u80	I think the Secretary of State and I agree that we all want to avoid that. I think that goes for all the groups here. I am concerned that there may be parents who are now in uncertainty or in uncertainty and are thinking: oh, perhaps I am one of those cases where it is going to take longer. As it takes longer and as the deadline, the end of the moratorium, approaches, they start to worry about what that means. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to now undertake that these parents do not have to worry, because at that time we are ensuring that private debts are cancelled, taken over or at least not off the €30,000, so that they are equally clean on the hook to the parents and that the parents get a fresh start to start with a clean slate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u81	I understand very well what Mr Van Apeldoorn is saying, but I would like to avoid that in the course of talking to parents about settling their debts, creditors are going to say: I'll wait until I get somewhere at the end of time, and so on and so forth. I'd like creditors to cooperate. I hope, in fact, that the House of Representatives has already called for this and I hope that it will also have your support for these creditors to look at their resolution as soon as possible. That helps. Of course, there can be these exceptional situations. I believe that it is important that we provide tailor-made services there, the intention of which should be that which is the aim of our whole recovery operation and also what we are aiming at with the debt problem, namely that parents should actually retain a clean slate and as much of the compensation as possible. So, in 100% of cases, are we going to take over all the debts of a parent? That's actually your question. I do not know whether that will ultimately be the solution, but our objective is to ensure that this is settled with the parents as soon as possible, well before the expiry of the moratorium.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u82	Mr. Van Apeldoorn again, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u83	That raises a question, but perhaps you will come to that later. In my first term, I asked what "as much as possible" means. The Secretary of State is now saying, does that mean that in all cases we take over those debts? Apparently, that doesn't mean it, but why not? If the Wilders motion is carried out, shouldn't that just mean that if necessary those debts will be taken over, point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u84	But "if necessary" is an important factor there, I think. I would like to avoid that the national government should always and in all cases take over the debts of the parents. I think it is good and important to see if it is justified that all these debts are still being paid. Many calls have also been made, for example in the Lower House and also by the Cabinet. These parents often have very long and old debts. It may well be that creditors no longer expect them to get paid for everything. So I would like to be in a position to make good agreements, which work for the parents and for the creditors. I understand very well what the Wilders motion says, namely: if necessary, the government will be able to choose to actually take over the debts. But again, I would very much like to strive for a situation where we do not wait until the moratorium has expired or the one-year deadline is over. I would like to ensure that together with the creditors and with the parents, of course, we map everything as quickly as possible and will help them to ensure that those debts are forgiven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u85	Am I to understand that the Secretary of State is saying that she wants some of the debts that have arisen through the whole situation because the creditor is satisfied with less than what he is entitled to? Do I understand that creditors pay at least part of the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u86	That could be very good. A number of creditors have already indicated their participation. They have said that they consider the problems of parents to be serious. Moreover, they did not assume that the debts would be paid 100% because, before these parents were compensated, there was still little visibility on the payment of those debts. They have indicated that they will be satisfied with zero or with a lower amount. I think it is particularly important that this be properly sorted out, because I understand Mr Wilders' motion very well. It says: 'take over if necessary'. I think it is important, when we talk about this, that I do so with the big creditors and with the private creditors. Parents, together with the municipalities, must do so with other creditors. An arrangement must be sought which weighs the interests of both parents and creditors. I think I have just said this in response to Mrs Geerdink's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u87	Will the Secretary of State actually put pressure on those creditors to dismiss part of their claim? Because I think that is a rather strange situation, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u88	Perhaps you have heard the call made by the cabinet and supported by many in the House of Representatives, namely that we have asked private creditors to cooperate in resolving this problem and also to cancel debts. I find "exercising pressure" a little complicated in this respect, but we have certainly called on private creditors to cooperate in this. I shall then continue with Mr Van der Voort's question. I was explaining that we want to address debt issues in different steps, first with public creditors. In addition, we try to make agreements with the large private parties. In addition, together with the parents, we want to achieve an integral solution with the help of the municipalities. We also want to use the knowledge and skills available at municipal level to help individual parents. Then there was a question from Mr Schalk about the implementation of the amendment and its risks. Then it's also about the role of the bailiffs. The core is this. If a creditor wishes to claim and confiscate his debt with a parent, he must go to court for that. If the judge agrees, there are, of course, the bailiffs who have to do the job. It may be that debts are already in place or that they have already been seized. One of the things that is regulated by the moratorium is to protect against seizure. It is important that the amendment that has been tabled also helps to ensure that we are actually able to share these parents' data with the bailiffs in such a way that, when they intend to seize, this is known in their register. I think Mr Crone was talking about that. We will do so as soon as possible, so that the seizure will not take place. Apart from that, we will, of course, ensure that the seizure is arranged, because it is clear that it is part of the law and that it must be respected by the judge. We'll also make sure it's known to the bailiffs. But we are working on all the ways and all the communication to inform parents about how they should deal with creditors, because we naturally want to prevent them from putting unnecessary pressure on parents to actually achieve that recovery. By the way, of course, the parent is always free to pay debts he or she would wish to pay. Parents tell me that this will often be the case in the family context, for example. Is there any contact with creditors? I think I have already said a little more about this in relation to Mrs Karimi's question about the domes we have been talking about. So we also talked to the bailiffs and we are also talking to other parties about parents who are currently on a Wsnp journey. That's the association of judge commissioners and directors. We do that to see how, together with the JenV Ministry, which also plays a role in this, we can find a solution that applies specifically to that group of parents. Mr Van der Voort and Mrs Geerdink asked about the exchange of information. I just said something about these public parties and, of course, we share our information on them in a safe way, so that we can ensure that no more claims are filled out and that debts are forgiven. But especially with the large private parties, we want to do so in a safe way. One of the methods that could be used is a kind of data locker, because it allows us to ensure that not only is it clear to the private creditors about which parents they are talking about, but also that agreements can be made on the waiver of those debts. So that's what we're doing with the bailiffs. If we make agreements with larger private parties, it is important that we can, of course, also explain this to the parents. In the case of the smaller creditors, we also need the parents themselves, because they will have to map together with their municipality the specific debts involved. They are not known to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u89	I asked not so much about creditors, but in particular about the way in which they communicate with their parents. The note following the report states that it is not necessary to ask parents for permission to share data. I just got word that there's a text message and there's a call coming after that. I think it must be very simple for me to ask for permission for the process that is to take place afterwards. You can ask them if they agree and if they want to give permission to do so. I think that's really very important, because in order to maintain trust, you're really gonna have to communicate well. My question is, therefore, whether this cannot be included in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u90	We have looked at this and we try to do so in a few ways. The first is that we do not so much ask the parents for permission to share all this, because many parents are not entirely clear which parties are involved. This law also makes it possible to do so in a safe way. I would like to tell the parents which creditors we are in contact with to share data. The other thing is that I want to call on parents to make sure that with their debts they also go to the municipality to see how it can be solved together with their congregation. If we follow the exact trajectory and ask parents whether they are okay with us sharing their information with parties A, B, C or D or with creditors in general, the quick check and the fast and proper handling of that call will become too long and too complex. This is exactly how we protect the parent. Of course, we've been looking at how to do that. We make sure that parents are aware of the parties we make agreements with, but we're not going to ask the parents separately for permission to share all that data. This law also makes it possible to do so, albeit of course we would like to inform them about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u91	That's at the beginning of the trajectory. At the end, when everything is cleaned up and hopefully there are no more debts after a year and everyone can start with a clean slate, even if it's just a lesson, I'd almost say, so you just know as a parent what happened... I'd like to know as a parent. I'd just like to know what happened around me, who knows what and why. Can that be incorporated into the process? Maybe it'll make it a little bit clearer that that'll still happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u92	Maybe I'll understand the question better. In any case, we will make clear to parents the parties with which we have agreed to forgiveness. We're gonna do that anyway. I hope a parent will notice, because those parties approach them. This has already been done, for example, in the case of the CAK, which sent letters to parents with the message: we understand that you are a parent in the problem of supplementing; we are now at least temporarily suspending the claim and, if it is at issue, we will forgive you for your guilt. That's gonna happen anyway. Parents will always know which parties' debts are forgiven. But I want to make sure that parents are also clear with which parties we make these agreements. They'll be able to see for themselves. Another thing is that we agree very clearly that data should not be with such a party for longer than necessary. In this file, we have seen that data have been shared, for example in the context of parents who wanted to provide friendly debt relief and in which we said to a municipality: no, we do not want to cooperate, because this parent is a fraud. It is, of course, extremely important that this type of data actually disappears in this particular file. We want this to be done in this direction as well. But parents will always get information from the parties concerned about their debt position. First of all, it is a matter of pause and, hopefully, it is also a question of loosing those debts. That was also in line with Mr Van der Voort's question. He asked if this transparency would help. Yeah, we want to do that, so we're gonna make sure that we have good information on our website and parents know that. Of course, they can always contact us, with their business manager or with our service number, to make sure that there are clear agreements with which parties have been made. The same is in line with Mr Van Rooijen's question. He asked if I could promise to get clear information in advance. I am going to do so as clearly as possible, including how we implement all our arrangements. I realize that there are still questions about that. I see questions from parents every day, including through my own channels, such as Twitter. "What's the deal? How's the debt coming? What's gonna happen to the debts at the IRS? What will happen to the CAK, the CJIB or otherwise?" We always try to inform as many parents as possible. That is what we are going to do about the debt position, especially when this moratorium is in force. That's what I'm gonna do a lot wider. We keep track of our website and we also have webinars. We are going to make sure that municipalities are well aware of what is going on, because they are also going to approach parents in the context of this process, in particular to see if help is needed in repairing their debt portfolio. So we will do it at as many moments as possible. Above all, it must be very clear that when parents are paid out, a creditor cannot just come along. It must also be clear that, if they need help in repairing their debts, they will be able to use the help of the municipality. Then there is the question by Mr Crone and Mrs Geerdink. It's about how we're going to implement the Wilders motion, how it works out for the benefit of parents and about the agreements with private creditors. I have said several things about the latter. The Wilders motion says that private debts should be taken over if necessary. I have indicated that I am having good conversations with the domes of private creditors. I'm trying to make that arrangement with others, too. I want to work on what is necessary and reasonable, both in the interests of the parent and in the interests of the creditor. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked a question about as much debt-free as possible. Well, it's my intention to let the parents be debt-free. I realize that the words 'as much as possible' may create unnecessary unrest here, because the idea is that the parents can actually make a new start with the compensation. This is without prejudice to the fact that parents themselves might simply want to spend part of that compensation on paying debts. This could be the case, for example, when money is borrowed from friends or family. But I want to try to make sure that parents can start over debt-free. And that also applies to parents who are in a legal debt restructuring process. There are a number of situations that still apply here. For in the case of the cancellation of all public debts, we have said that there are two grounds where there will be no remission, namely criminal penalties and debts caused by serious other abuses. Think about injury or something like that. These debts will not be cancelled and in that case the parent will have to pay those debts. Mr Crone has noted that the herd always runs through a bailiff. Yeah, that's right. That's what it is. Through that bailiff, we're gonna share data and then we won't be able to confiscate it. We're gonna help parents not let other creditors put pressure on them. And we are also going to make sure that they are helped, especially by us with those big creditors, but also by their congregation when it comes to the rest of their debt portfolio. I have a further note here on the Wilders motion, but I think I have already answered that question. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the fourth block of the five. This is about the legal basis of the moratorium. A number of questions have been asked. Mr Essers and Mr Van Rooijen asked why there was no opinion from the Council of State on the sustainability of the amendment, particularly in the light of Article 1 of the Convention on Human Rights. The point is that an amendment was proposed in the Lower House. We have already mentioned this point, including in the answer to the questions. That amendment seemed very good to us and was also provided by the government with a 'judgement chamber' when we had to give an opinion on the amendment. As far as we are concerned, the amendment is also an amendment which greatly assists us in resolving the debt problem. Of course, requesting an urgent opinion from the Council of State takes time, and that time is very expensive in the context of that moratorium. After all, we cannot continue paying out the debts to parents. This concerns, for example, parents whom we have called and who we have not paid because they have indicated that they are currently in debt, and to whom we wanted to ensure that that money would not disappear directly into the debt portfolio. So I think it is particularly desirable that we work quickly here. That is why we in the cabinet have said: we are not going to ask for that advice anymore. But we have listened carefully to the questions that have been asked, including in the House of Representatives, about sustainability. That was also why we had the letter sent by the Minister for Legal Protection. In that letter we also looked at this subject in particular. I think it is important to say something about sustainability. The essence is that this moratorium, of course, helps to protect parents from creditors. This means that creditors cannot temporarily enforce their claims. They can't go to the parents and actually claim their debt. And they can't do that either through the judge, through a bailiff, etcetera, etcetera. Let me say first of all that I very much want that moratorium to work, but of course I also want that moratorium to work for creditors. The importance of this is also that creditors should not be first-come, first-served. That is true at the moment, and as long as there is no such moratorium. But the importance of the moratorium is also that a good deal can be made with creditors and the parents together on how that money will be handled. If you ask me if I do not think that there will be legal proceedings and that these trials will actually ensure that creditors will come along, I say: well, I don't really expect that, not least because I am, of course, in conversation with creditors, especially with the larger parties, in order to come to a solution together with them. Of course, it may still be that smaller creditors, which we talked about in the context of the municipalities, want their claims to be recovered. They can go to court. Of course, that can always happen, but in that case the government will be the one to be addressed. That is what we are, because we have ensured that this moratorium applies and that a creditor cannot therefore temporarily enforce his right. Even in a situation where there would be a judge who thinks there should be a solution, the government will thus be the called party. We also assume that we will be able to find a solution to that problem. In this case, we assume that we are also the combination of the Ministry of Finance and certainly the Ministry of Finance that this situation is sustainable. This is also in line with what I said earlier about, for example, the friendly debt relief routes, where there is also a temporary moratorium. If you take your debt portfolio to the municipality and end up in such a path, there is also a moratorium. Again, there are also agreements with a lot of creditors. So I'm assuming there won't be any need to go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u93	Mr Essers from the CDA Group has a question on this. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u94	I've listened carefully to what you're saying. I would very much like to follow you in your confidence that this is all well done, but do you think that the letter from the Minister for Legal Protection clearly shows why we can have that confidence? Because that letter says it's "defendable." In particular, he referred to the temporary restriction of rights of redress and proportionality. But when you say "defendable," there are arguments pro and arguments counter. That applies to any legal document. My question, for which I have also found a great deal of support from colleagues, is to give us these arguments. If something is a temporary infringement, state case law confirming that it is not contrary to Article 1 of the First Protocol of the ECHR. Then where is this degree of proportionality? Do you have any examples of this? I would therefore ask whether this letter from the Minister for Legal Protection can be further amended. I assume that the letter was not written because it was reasoned towards a certain outcome, but because there are arguments for it. I think that the Court should know these arguments, so that we also know the basis for that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u95	To take you into account: the arguments are also included in the letter. The letter states that we are committed to helping with this moratorium, this temporary moratorium, parents and creditors, namely by ensuring that there can be a proper settlement of the debts of those parents and that they can finally proceed with a clean slate. Of course, the statements made in the House of Representatives are also helpful in this process. If you ask me if there is specific case law, I say: if there were, we or the Minister of JenV would have added it to the letter. But the essence is, of course, that we are also working here in the actual way that we want to do this. We are not going to wait for this moratorium until all the creditors have come forward. We are going to work to ensure that we make agreements with the biggest creditors, so that parents do not have a lot of creditors who would rightly want to start a case with a judge. I will also do everything in my power to ensure that, if such a situation occurs, we will solve it for such a parent. That's a little in line with the points we mentioned earlier. First of all, I am confident that this will happen, and I refer to the letter from the Minister of the Interior, but if, in fact, the situation is going to arise that a creditor thinks that he is being harmed unnecessarily, we will also find a solution to that. This is also one of the points mentioned in the Wilders motion, which says that private creditors should be compensated by the government if necessary. So I'm assuming that that combination makes this sustainable. On the one hand, there is the fact that this moratorium is in line with friendly debt restructuring. It is also in line with the fact that in the Awir we also have a restraining order for, for example, the payment of supplements. Now this is not really a supplement, but it is in the base of course a kind of supplement, namely a compensation for something you could have gotten in the past. I assume that the combination with the desire to do so, which I hope will also be supported by your Chamber, and with the fact that if problems arise, we will also act on matters, ensuring that this is sustainable. Of course, it helps if you also pronounce that in the legal process in case such a case happens to a judge. It helps if that judge sees in the legal process that it's also supposed to work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u96	It's actually like a marriage. It's your business, and you have the very best intentions. You say if anything happens, we're gonna find a solution to that. But this is right, isn't it? We are talking about the ECHR here. I fully agree that you have the best intentions, but I have a simple question for the ministry of JenV. Can you back that letter up? In an interim sense, you say that there is no case law, but I would venture to doubt that very much. There must have been cases where there was a temporary infringement of property rights and the court has said: well, this is settled proportionally. Maybe there are cases where it wasn't, but a weighting took place. You can ask the Ministry to deliver that to us, can't you? That's not such a problem, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u97	I asked that question earlier, because it would be taken. Look, in practice we see this, of course, in the friendly debt relief pathways. I do not know if there is any case law on this, but we know that that is true. At the moment when someone with problems and debts reports to a municipality and enters such a friendly debt relief process, there is indeed such a restraining order. There are no doubt that there are also issues in which attempts have been made to do this differently, but I cannot say any more about this at the moment. I might be able to take a second look at that. It is good for you to know that we not only have the letter from the Minister of JenV, but that I also, albeit verbally, have spoken with the national attorney about how he looks at this case. He has indicated, and I share that with you, that he is also following what the Minister of JenV says here. In other words, of course a judge can always decide something else, but there is little reason to think in this case that a judge will come to such a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u98	Shall we accept the Secretary of State's offer to return to it in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u99	If I could just give you one more piece of advice? The conclusions that JenV's statement comes with are wonderful, but I think you can't deny that the arguments aren't in it. And that has to do with views in literature and case law. There is an incredible amount of case law for the ECHR, the Court of Justice for Human Rights. That must have played a role in the state's attorney's office and in the Ministry's office in order to reach this opinion. They won't have just made that up, of: we have to come to a certain outcome. So my question is... I'm sorry to insist on that, but it's important to us that we don't feel like we're going along with a particular proposal because we all have the same good intentions. We want, and we are the First Chamber for that, to have a good legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u100	Your question is clear. We ask the Secretary of State to come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u101	That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u102	Mr Van Rooijen, of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u103	I am curious about the second deadline, because I agree with Mr Essers' questions and comments. My group considers the letter from the Minister for Legal Protection to be ill-founded. It needs further justification, but it is still not clear to me why, even after the urgent debate and the amendment in the House of Representatives, we have lost over the past few weeks, which is a waste of time, whereas at that time we could have asked for advice from the Council of State. I agree with Mr Essers' question as to whether this can be done in the next few days before the vote. Why do I put so much emphasis on that? Last Tuesday, in an interim action against the curfew, the welfare court handed out a blow in the clear sky. No one was prepared for that. I must not forget Mr Omtzigt in the House of Representatives also pointed out that, after this law and this amendment have been accepted, a court of law has come to the conclusion that the legal basis is not waterproof and thus gives an opinion that the interests of the victims, whom you and we want to help quickly, are at risk. The thrust of Mr Essers' question and of 50PLUS is to ensure that there is maximum clarity and certainty before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u104	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u105	It should not be the case that we think afterwards: we should have secured this in the Lower House and certainly in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u106	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u107	I understand your point, of course, but if you ask me whether I can give a 100% guarantee in one way or another that there will never be a judge who may find that there is an infringement, then I cannot answer that question positively. But that's precisely why we had a good look at it. We have also asked the Minister of JenV, on the basis of requests from the House of Representatives, to state whether he thinks this is a sustainable issue. The Minister of JenV said: yes. I have just indicated that at least orally I also received confirmation from the national attorney that he also looks at it that way. I want to avoid having to stop paying out the €30,000 scheme and not being able to do so to people who are in debt. What we are trying to do with this moratorium is incredibly important to people. We are trying to ensure that they are able to receive the €30,000 and that they do not have to transfer it immediately to a creditor who is simply reporting to them. Creditors are also not in a position to run after their parents like crazy because the principle is that whoever comes first will be first served. We want to create peace for parents. We want to make sure that we settle well. That is what this moratorium is about. The intended text is in the text of the government and is also pronounced in the House of Representatives. If you will agree to this, it will also be your wish. And yes, then there may be a judge who finds it complicated. I have indicated that we will therefore ensure that we act on things, although we believe that the chances of doing so are very small. Unfortunately, there are no 100% guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u108	Mr Van Rooijen, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u109	I didn't ask for a guarantee, but for maximum clarity and maximum certainty. That's not 100% and it's not a guarantee. It's a matter of risk assessment. I think it is up to this Chamber to point that out in the debate with the cabinet and to make sure that we do everything we can to ensure that the regulation is legally sound and that it is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u110	And your question? That wasn't a question. Do you have a question for the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u111	Yeah, but maybe the Secretary of State will come up soon. The letter from Minister Dekker for Legal Protection was about the ECHR. I also referred to Article 17 of the Charter. You, as well as Mr Essers, are always talking about the ECHR, but are you going to come to that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u112	Sure. In fact, I'm getting to that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u113	We'll wait and see. First, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u114	I would like to ask the Secretary of State to take with him, in the second term, the very great experience that has now been gained in the city. As mayor of Leeuwarden, I have experienced mental mentoring myself. We want to give people peace because that puts them in the situation to think sober again. I would like to ask you to take that with you in the second term, because then we are sure that there is a lot of case law about that. In fact, the previous cabinet has officially said that it is entitled to six months of debt rest in order to come to itself. After that, the debt restructuring begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u115	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u116	My question is whether you want to take that with you in second term. I think there's the solution. The generic regime will be good in the case law we know, but there will certainly be individual cases where creditors can say that it is not proportional for them, whether it is a big boy or not. Generic regimes often have a generic debt rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u117	We leave this question for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u118	Yeah, I'd be happy to. Then I turn to Mr Van Rooijen's question on the Charter for the EU and the relationship to Article 1 of the ECHR. I must say that I did not fully follow Mr Van Rooijen's point. You point out that there is a right of ownership that is regulated in both, and that this is not always exactly the same. The Charter does not always apply in this case. It binds the institutions of the EU and Member States to the extent that they implement EU law. The Charter is a treaty that also regulates rights for EU citizens. In my view, in the case of this moratorium, there is no question of this Charter being discussed. What is on the agenda, however, is that, as far as we are concerned, the moratorium can also be defended under Article 1, which we have just discussed. In principle, therefore, I do not see any difference between the different provisions. This could, at most, be further developed in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u119	I have discussed Article 17 in detail because I hear it widely from the cabinet, from Minister Koolmees, but also from you now, on the issue of the ECHR, the Court of Strasbourg, and Article 17 of the EU Charter, the Court of Luxembourg. Article 17 of the EU Charter provides for direct horizontal effect between citizens. Let me give an example of a creditor and a debtor. There may be foreign suppliers. Then EU law is at stake. A Belgian bicycle maker or baker who delivers to a family in Maastricht has to do with this law that he cannot collect that claim for a year. That bicycle maker or baker, just across the border in Belgium, can also be in financial trouble, as Mr Essers pointed out. A judge then faces the question of how to deal with that. That's my point. It is too far-reaching to go into this tonight, but I would like to say something about it in the second term: every time it is said that the ECHR and Article 17 of the Charter are actually the same. So one also denies the direct horizontal effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u120	The Secretary of State, with this clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u121	I didn't quite hear the question. I understand that we will come back to this in the second term. It may well be that there is a foreign or non-Dutch creditor where the parents have debts, where there are claims. In principle, then, that moratorium works for these creditors too. Again, there is the possibility for a creditor to go to court, especially if it would be disproportionately bad for the creditor if that moratorium applied. The court could then decide in favour of this creditor. But before we get there, we assume that we will have found a solution by then, not least because we and the parents will ensure that such a debt is resolved in one way or another. I'll go on to the other questions that were there. They dealt in particular with the article in de Volkskrant this weekend on an issue that was positioned as a new problem of surcharges. This issue has been known for a long time. My predecessors have also discussed this with Parliament for a long time, and a solution has been sought. Although this was not entirely reflected in that article, this issue was recognised in 2017 and also solved in a structural way. A compensation scheme has been established for situations between 2014 and 2016. This regulation actually compensates for those affected by this problem, and I think that is quite right. With today's knowledge, of course, we can look at this problem differently. I therefore think it is important that people who somehow feel that they have not been helped by the scheme that has already been adopted and which parents have used, should be able to report to us even further. I will also work with the Minister for Social Affairs to see if we can come up with a compensation scheme for situations that have occurred before 2014. There was therefore a compensation scheme applicable for the period 14-16. It's been extended, too. That's what parents used to do. But I would like to see if there are any other problems involved in this. But it is not an issue that is totally new or unknown. It was a situation which was already known and which has already been addressed. Mr Essers' question on the implementation of the Omtzitz motion on a consultation with the Court of Auditors on the issue of legality, including in the context of the computability of compensation policy. During, but also immediately after the legislative consultation in the Lower House, the General Court was informed by me to ensure that they can help us here. We are going to formally request the President of the General Court as soon as possible. Moreover, I would like to emphasise that the Court of Auditors is obviously about its own research agenda, so I cannot say exactly when they are going to pick up this request and whether they are going to investigate it. But of course, as soon as that is clear, we will report that to your Chamber as well. We can do this, for example, by reporting the state of play in the next progress report that we send to you. We make a bimonthly progress report; at the same time we send it to both your Chamber and the House of Representatives. Then I would like to end with the question that was asked, whether it was actually Mr Van Strien's heart cry, I think, about taking away parents' concerns about a quick handling. That's exactly what this whole file is about. Because, as I said in my introduction, we have seen not only that parents have been greatly affected by the problem, but also that they are often much more serious than we initially thought and that there are sometimes follow-up themes, but certainly also that the number of parents is large. We now have about 24,000 parents who have come forward, and we must now, of course, make every effort to do so as quickly and as well as possible. That is what the compensation system is for, and this is what the acceleration and extension we have talked about today is about, the financial impact of which is also reflected in the budget that is before us today. But of course, it is incredibly important that we also resolve these other problems with parents: the debt problem we are talking about, and the problems that still exist for children and for ex-partners. I'm very happy to commit myself to that with my entire team. As far as I am concerned, those were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u122	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term of office. Mrs Karimi does not want to do so, so Mr Crone of the PvdA has the floor, without a mouth cap, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u123	Mr. Chairman. I like to do it without a mouth cap, because I found a beautiful text, which I pointed out just now in my interruption. Of course, I should have said it in my first term. People with high debts, who do not get out of there with outside help, will be given a breathing break of up to six months in order to put things in order together with debt relief. In those six months, bailiffs, collection agencies and the government are not allowed to confiscate property, income or benefit. On Friday, the cabinet approved a proposal from Jetta Klijnsma of Social Affairs. As soon as someone enters such a situation, all income is withheld above the minimum amount the debtor can live on, the so-called "faultless foot." The money that was saved at the end of the adampause goes to the creditors. So it's gonna be okay in the end, but this has already been decided, proposed by the then cabinet. It's election time, so I won't read that the VVD was against it, but it was decided then. So the First Chamber took a generic measure which allowed municipalities to say that, and that's why I know how well to say it to people: a six-month rest, and then we're going to help you again; in that six months you're going to consult, inventory your debts and what's more. This is not case law, but it is a fact. In the meantime, therefore, there is a great deal of case law, in which individual creditors will of course have said: yes, but now I have too great a disadvantage. But those are individual matters. As far as I know, this arrangement as such has never been put forward as with that curfew law; that the arrangement as such does not apply, regardless of its content. If the First Chamber and the Second Chamber find anything, we will see if it is allowed by law; and if not, we will amend the law. But what do we do? We are making a decision this evening through an amendment to a law. That's our main task. Not doing what lawyers have said so far, but we are co-legislators. So in line with standing policy: help people with debt to rest for a while. In this case, we have also caused this unrest, because we have not properly implemented and devised the Supplementary Act. I think it is perfectly legitimate, legally but certainly also politically politically, not to say now that we want to think about it for another week. I would not be against it, but it seems to me very good that there is apparently case law for a generic regime for a six-month delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u124	Mr Crone rightly says that we are responsible for legislation. If a law doesn't work properly, we can change that law again. In the Netherlands, we have a system in which the judge cannot assess these laws against the Constitution, but that does not apply to international treaties. That is the legitimate question that we can also ask the Secretary of State: how does this relate to the ECHR? We do not have the last word in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u125	But I do not dispute at all the correctness of your question. Because any question can be asked. This isn't even a stupid question. A silly question may also be asked, but of course this is a very good question. The advice of the ministry of JenV does not say that... The blame is not off the table; the blame remains. It's just that it's gonna be gone for, like, a year at the most. This is proportional, given the damage done by the citizens. It is also proportional to the creditor, because it also gets an overview: am I the only one or are there more? That is why it is written: otherwise you stand there first; whoever first serves has his money first. This is also normal in bankruptcy law, to mention another precedent. In bankruptcy law, the debt is also frozen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u126	Let's stick to this matter, otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u127	No, but that's where it happens to the same extent. First you bring the creditors together to solve it. Finally, a lot of creditors know... large companies have standard 1%, 2%, 3%, 4% non-recoverable debts. They just know that these kinds of categories occur. It's a mess that it's generic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u128	That's your opinion. I respect that very much, but of course you can also have a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u129	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u130	And I think the judge has decided, without having been able to carry out a very thorough study of it, in similar cases. The only thing that is asked here is: map out what case law we have in this area. What views have there been in literature?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u131	That's the question you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u132	It doesn't have to be in detail, but it is important that we have enough comfort to be able to say with peace of mind that it is a good bill that is in any case advocacy to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u133	I totally agree with you. The question is correct. But I'm a co-legislator. So if I change the law now by means of this amendment, because that is what we are doing, then I have to consider whether, in addition to the substance of the matter, I think this is a legally viable way. I would like to remind you that this legal path has already been chosen by the previous cabinet, in 2016, also generically, namely a six-month delay for people. We are now doing something similar for another group, but it is also a group that is in debt problems, which needs debt restructuring. So there's a lot of equations. So I guess I'll give you a piece of case law. It is convincing for my group to say at this stage that we no longer need it. You can always ask for more. I admit that a creditor will always go to court somewhere, and it will win. But that's different from the generic regulation or... the amendment would not be legally sustainable. But in my eyes, I'm not a lawyer, I'm just a co-legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u134	The Secretary of State has undertaken to reply to Mr Essers. You didn't ask an extra question. I would like to ask Mr Crone to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u135	Yeah, I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I am satisfied with the state of play so far, with the answers and with the debate. I had made a sum or a proposal on compensation for damages. That will not exactly be in numbers, but my point was that people with a debt below €30,000 sometimes get overcompensation. That's what they've been given. I would find it acidic if people with a debt above €30,000, who, for example, have €60,000 in debt... they will of course get those €30,000 also paid out, but I understand that compensation will also come on top, big or small. So they also get some kind of compensation. Then it is balanced, if people do have some extra damage compensation then only the cold amount of the debt itself. I'd like to get that answer in second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u136	Thank you. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u137	Mr President, thank you. Let me correct another omission from the first deadline: it is of course a special pleasure for me to have this debate again under your inspiring and above all pleasant leadership. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the detailed reply. I would like to come back to a few points, starting with the expensive duty and the €30,000. I have asked the Secretary of State several times, including by way of interruption. How does she take that expensive duty? Is that a tough promise? The Secretary of State says: yes, I will do my utmost and for the time being I expect it to work. Of course, the Secretary of State can't foresee everything. That has also been shown in this dossier. However, if there are any unexpected bears on the road that suddenly cross, the Secretary of State promises that she will respond adequately to it and that the right or left will be resolved, so that in almost all cases the €30,000 can simply be transferred before 1 May. I also asked about parents who have a real damage of over €30,000. In my view, the Secretary of State was mistakenly suggesting that there is also an acceleration in the handling of the comprehensive assessment. I do not think that is the case. The Secretary of State says he'll go through with it. That is not really good enough; it should also be accelerated. I asked about the prospects for those parents. The Secretary of State says: we are working on it but it may take until 2022. My group does not think that is acceptable. They need a better perspective and a timeline. In the House of Representatives, for example, there was talk of a car wash, in which at the end of the day it became clear where these parents were going. That's about the clean slate. I drew the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that it was in the written reply that the aim was to allow parents to receive as much as possible debt-free as €30,000, so as much as possible with a clean slate. I am glad that the Secretary of State is actually moving away from that qualification and saying: not as much as possible; it should just be a clean slate, point. I hope that she can promise that this is indeed the intention and will happen, not just as much as possible, but simply with a clean slate and a fresh start. Then there is the moratorium and the pause button. The Secretary of State keeps saying about this: it is the intention to buy time and rest to reach agreements for both creditors and parents. My specific question is what these agreements or solutions would consist of. There are actually only two flavors: either the debts are forgiven, or they continue to exist and will be recovered later. We also continue to have doubts about legal sustainability, but we hope that we are wrong and, above all, that there will be a plan B if that is not the case. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u138	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Voort. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have heard a good and complete answer to our questions from the Secretary of State. In particular, the answers to the questions that Mrs Geerdink and I have asked about the provision of information and communication with parents were complete and reassuring for our group. Good information and communication with parents therefore, we believe, leads to some extent to a restoration of trust in the government of these parents, which is very important. We have had a lot of discussion here and heard about legal sustainability, but let us be honest: it is mainly about providing comfort for parents and ensuring that they receive adequate compensation. When I see the Secretary of State in this way, with her commitment, commitment, knowledge of things and want to take care of things for the parents, I have enough confidence and even great confidence in her to finish this well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u140	All in one minute. I call Mr Essers of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u141	Mr. Chairman. I can be short, too. What is most important to me will be clear. That is the question of legal sustainability. It may seem very stubborn, but that is a very important point for my group. The debate we are having is very important. Perhaps there are not so many viewers or listeners anymore at this time of day, but this debate is part of the history of law. It will also be an important element for a court to assess in due course whether there is sufficient proportionality with regard to Article 1, First Protocol. The debate on legal sustainability is important not only for us as the First Chamber, but also for the Secretary of State. We are joint legislators, so it is also important for you to have a sufficient degree of certainty. I do not say "complete certainty"; it is not mathematics or physics; I say "sufficient degree of certainty".... that we have weighed all the arguments pro and counter and that we have come to a responsible decision. Part of this legislative process is also that I make a very real request to give us a little more guidance on the arguments used in the appreciation of the Lodders/Van Weyenberg amendment. I expect the Secretary of State to be able to meet us there. I don't expect a dissertation, but I do expect something more than what we have now in that letter of February 11, 2021. My final point, Mr President. Thank you for the consideration of the motion for a resolution on contacts with the General Court. Could the Secretary of State explain to us exactly what is a light test when assessing parental compensation questions? I can see that there are a lot of misunderstandings about that, as if it is not being tested very seriously. What exactly is the difference between a light and a heavy test? On a heavy test, I can imagine something, but what exactly is a light test? How can we have sufficient confidence that we will at least take out the real cases? I, too, have every confidence in this Secretary of State, but once again, give us the comfort that the legislator must have in order to make a responsible decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u142	Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen from the 50PLUS Group has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u143	Mr. Chairman. I had another question, which I should perhaps have made a little clearer in the first period on the issue which has also been discussed in writing: what is the relationship between the five recovery schemes in the January compensation decision, as it is called, and the flat-rate payment of €30,000? Perhaps, in addition to the written reply, the Secretary of State would like to comment on this. Let me be clear: we naturally support this legislative proposal, but we do want clarity. I agree with Mr Essers from the CDA Group: we are not asking for a guarantee, but for maximum clarity and certainty, precisely in the interests of the victims. It is of course not only a matter of this Chamber and the House of Representatives, but also of the Cabinet and this Secretary of State to do everything together to provide that maximum clarity and certainty. In this context, unfortunately, we are not convinced that the Minister for Legal Protection is supporting this matter of property. With Mr Essers, we continue to ask for more support. Finally, I would like to draw attention once again to the difference between the ECHR and Article 17 of the Charter. For the ECHR, you go to the Court of Strasbourg; these are only cases against the State. For Article 17 of the EU Charter, you go to the Court of Luxembourg; these are cases against the state or cases in which a citizen is opposed to a citizen, in this case a creditor against a debtor. It is recognised that Article 17 has a direct horizontal effect. To put it very simply: pension fund management and social partners can be held directly liable under the EU Charter if they were wrongly involved in, for example, boarding, according to Professor Van Meerten. This means that members and pensioners can take pension fund boards to court and also claim compensation. We can't do that at the ECHR. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned last Saturday's Volkskrant article with Mrs Karimi on loan assistance bbz and the drama that emerges. In addition to what she has just said, can the Secretary of State explain again in a letter how the group could still be eligible for compensation from 2010 to 2014? Can it also undertake to do everything possible to track down those who were entitled to it between 2014 and 2016 but who are not known? There's another 15 million on the shelf. Can the Secretary of State promise that the rights of these people can be fulfilled in practice? Mr President, thank you for the leadership on your last day in this Senate. We'll miss you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u144	Thank you. I call Mrs Geerdink of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, words of appreciation. First of all, words of appreciation for the President, who, of course, is doing this for the very last time this evening and has done so with great caution. So thank you for that. I also have words of appreciation for the Secretary of State, for her answer, especially for the unbridled commitment I feel coming in every time, and not least for the execution. I am referring to the employees who will take this huge job very carefully and as soon as possible with all parents and creditors in the coming year. There is indeed an expensive obligation to pay out before 1 May, to achieve debt restructuring within a year and then to continue to communicate very well in between. We have called for attention to be paid to the latter. Then to the question. Speed and care struggle for priority. In this case, we have the following question. Have we understood correctly that there has been a risk assessment and a risk weighting by both the JenV Ministry and the Ministry of Finance, where the outcome is that speed actually prevails? If that is the case, then we should simply say so, and then we should take that into account in the way in which we assess this bill. So the question is, did we get this right? Of course, we have already made a decision for ourselves, but we will involve the answers. Of course, we tend to vote in favour of this bill. We wish the Secretary of State a great deal of success from this point on, especially with the careful and rapid elaboration of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u146	Thank you. I call Mr Schalk. I suspect he won't be surprised this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u147	Thank you, President. I have two more questions for the Secretary of State after, of course, thanking her for the way in which she has answered all our questions so far. I have two questions and two conclusions or observations. The first question is about something I heard the Secretary of State say. She said that by the end of this month the first 3,000 people will be compensated, at least in the sense that they will receive the €30,000. She'll have two months left. If I'm gonna do the math, I think you're gonna need a hefty acceleration if you're gonna keep doing it at this rate. The first half month is 3,000, then there are two months left. So the question is, can we do that? Then there's the second question I have left. The Secretary of State has indicated that those who have reported after 15 February will be included in that programme as soon as possible. Can the Secretary of State give a little more explanation by indicating whether there is a timetable for this, so that these people also know where they stand? "As soon as possible" is also "as elastic as possible." I have two observations to make. I have heard that the Secretary of State made a commitment on payments not covered by funds saved by savings from freezing the indexation of family allowances or something like that. Thank you for that commitment and for that clarity. Another observation is that my group will support the legislative proposal. I wish the Secretary of State much wisdom and compassion in this incredibly difficult dossier. I wish that wisdom to the President in the future. Thanks for the lead tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u148	Thank you. I call Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions in detail. Nevertheless, there are still concerns as to whether everything is going well, in particular as regards legal sustainability. I fear that these concerns will not be fully addressed tonight either. As I indicated in the first term, we can only accept this bill now in the interests of the affected parents, but we are happy to continue to monitor implementation. Mr President, thank you also for your leadership on this last day and success in your new job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u150	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Linden of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u151	Mr. Chairman. My group also intends to vote in favour of this budget change. The compensation of €30,000 is a major step in compensating for the unprecedented injustice suffered by victims of the premium affair. In this second term, I would like to join in the calls made by CDA and 50PLUS in particular on the Lodders/Van Weyenberg amendment in the House of Representatives. 100% legal certainty is certainly not possible and there is no need to do so, but more arguments as to whether the cooling-off period actually lasts in court and the justification of the letter are desirable. The scenario whereby, in the first case, a creditor is right and the moratorium is wiped off the table would be a new low in this case. I heard the Secretary of State when she said: even if that happens, the government is liable and he is going to solve it. Prevention is better than cure, Mr. Chairman. This will certainly lead to uncertainty for those affected. I think there are a number of options, such as an emergency opinion with the Council of State. In the letter from the Minister for Legal Protection, we read that work is being carried out as a matter of urgency. Perhaps that could come to the Chamber very soon. The Secretary of State indicated that she could already share the advice of the national attorney orally with the Chamber. Perhaps that can also be done in writing and gives it a bit more comfort. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a second small point. The Secretary of State himself takes the lead with the large private creditors, smaller creditors and help... There it is important that the municipality takes the role. Can the Secretary of State also provide adequate information on how local monitoring by municipal councils to resolve this problem for the affected is taking place? What should they pay attention to and how can they carry out their controlling tasks properly? Is the Secretary of State going to provide information on this so that they can take their role in it? Mr President, thank you very much, also for your competent Presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u152	Thank you, also for all the fine words. Does one of the Members wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Then I have the question to the Secretary of State if she is immediately able to answer. I hear "ten minutes." Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes, until 10:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u153	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Supplements and Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to answer the questions that have been asked and the point I would like to come back to as briefly as possible. I shall begin with Mr Van Apeldoorn's question on the commitment to the €30,000 scheme before 1 May and on the clean slate. As far as I'm concerned, this should work. If unexpected events occur, I will make every effort to ensure that that commitment can be fulfilled, for that is my intention, my intention and my objective. Everything we have, we'll bet to make sure we get this done. I think you're not the only one who really wants us to succeed. In the debt approach, the intention is also that parents should be given a clean lead. Of course, it is important to realise what can be achieved in practice. Of course, I don't control all private creditors just like that. But we're gonna do the best we can. I indicated in my reply that it is important that there are, of course, public debts that we will not forget. These are, in particular, criminal penalties or cases in the event of injury. These will be debts that will continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u155	Briefly, but for the sake of clarity and the Acts. Those exceptions are, of course, very reasonable. We can also justify them. When it comes to a criminal situation, I understand. If parents themselves state "we borrowed so much money from family or friends at the time and would like to repay it again," that must of course also be possible. What our group is concerned about is, I think, that this is shared here by several groups: in all other cases, that promise should be made that parents can start with a clean slate. That $30,000 is clean on the hook. That should be the intention and also the promise of the Secretary of State. And then there are those exceptions. It wasn't about that either, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u156	The intention is indeed as you say it is. Then there was Mr Essers' question about the difference between the light test and the heavy test. In fact, we perform the light test to determine whether a parent belongs to the target group and is eligible for compensation, rather than so much to determine the extent of the damage. So the question is: is there a parent who has actually been affected by the problems with the surcharges and who has had to repay money wrongly, or whose supplement has been set at zero? We need to establish that with the light test. This can be based on one year or one part of the scheme. If this is the case, the parent is also eligible for the €30,000 scheme. When we do the more extensive test, we don't call it the heavy test, but the integral treatment is much more specific about what happened every year and what situations have occurred. For example, we look at whether we have settled with a parent which has occurred a lot on the basis of surcharges and whether tax refunds have been withheld to pay off and so on. We do those light tests as far as we can on the basis of data analysis. As far as we can't, we'll add a manual key. Then there was Mr Schalk's question about the timetable for parents who came forward after 15 February. How soon are we gonna help them? Of course, we want to help these parents as soon as possible. I would like to get back to that in the next progress report, because then I also have a bit more of a picture of how many parents this is about. Of course, that makes a difference for what I can say about how quickly they will be eligible for the €30,000 scheme. I can tell you more about that in my next report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u157	Thank you. At least that's a little more clarity. I assume that 24,000 have been dealt with by 1 May, and it seems to me that we will have plenty of time to do the rest as well. That's why I thought that couldn't take very long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u158	What is involved here is the integrated assessment to be carried out at the same time. A lot of parents to whom we pay €30,000 can say: "well, I think I'm entitled to more," "at least I want that to be investigated" or "I want it to be looked at." Of course, we also need the capacity and time of our business managers and the people who do the work with us. So it's not just that they're all separate flows, but I understand your intention, of course, because we also want to try to pay out that initial amount as soon as possible to parents who came forward later and rightly say that they've been duped. But again, it is somewhat dependent on the number of people who will report in the coming period between 15 February and 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u159	I'm tasting the intent, and I'd love to see that progress report come to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u160	Yes, we do. In adopting the law, we have promised that we will do so and you will receive a report every two months from us on the state of implementation and on the design of the supplementary arrangements. Mr Van Rooijen asked about the relationship between the €30,000 scheme and the existing one, the one we laid down in the law in this Chamber last July. The existing arrangements are just there and they also remain. However, we have adapted it for the parents who were eligible for compensation under the original law on the basis of hardness of the scheme. That actually meant that you got your original money back or still got paid. We have turned that into a compensation scheme and that means that you will not only get the original amount back but also receive compensation of about 25%. That's what changed the arrangement. We actually pay out that €30,000 as a first payment. It's the minimum amount that every duped gets. If it's necessary and parents want it, we'll continue with tests. Based on the law and the agreements we made, we'll move on. Then, of course, the regulations that exist apply. In addition, of course, we are going to work with the debts. Furthermore, there is in all cases the possibility for parents to report to the Committee on Actual Damage if they think they are eligible for additional compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u161	Mr. Van Rooijen, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u162	The Minister referred to last year's arrangement, but I was referring to the compensation decision of, I believe, 20 January this year. It includes the five recovery schemes. My question, also in the written preparation, is how these five recovery schemes relate to the compensation of €30,000. Is it sufficiently clear to those concerned, so that it does not become a legal maze and people have to start wondering what the proper course of justice is, what they are entitled to and when this arrangement applies and when the other one is? How does that relate to compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u163	I cannot guarantee that it will always be very clear to everyone. Given all the problems that have arisen and all the things that have happened in recent years, we have tried to make a compensation scheme that really does justice to the parents. And "right" is more than right, because it is also generous. Those schemes refer back to the original schemes in the law and therefore state that parents are eligible for compensation and that in all cases the extended scheme applies. So you not only get the original amount that you have wrongly repaid, but also a compensation. Furthermore, parents, if they so wish, are always eligible for compensation for additional damage. Above all, I hope that we can do enough to keep explaining to parents what exactly is in our arrangements. It is not always simple and that is also because the situations are not always simple. But fortunately our businessmen have so far been able to explain to people exactly what is going on, something that the parents certainly appreciate. But the essence and the basis of the scheme remains that we compensate people who have had to pay back money wrongly. Sometimes they have been able to do so and sometimes they have not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u164	I have a short question. Can the Secretary of State reconsider whether information and communication on the five schemes can help in relation to the compensation of €30,000? What else can be done about that? We have learned from the past that information and communication to citizens are of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u165	I certainly like to watch that. We'll do it as much as we can. We also have a parent panel watching with us. That doesn't just look at our website and information. We try to improve them over and over again. I am very happy to do so, because it is especially important that people understand how it works with us and how we compensate parents. Then there is Mr Van Rooijen's question about speed and care and the risk analysis we have made. In this dossier speed and care are certainly important; it is not just one or the other. But it is important that we have promised parents to pay them out before 1 May if they have checked in before 15 February. This is also possible for parents who are currently in debt. That's what the moratorium was designed for. Together with the ministry of JenV we have provided technical assistance in the drafting of the amendment. We certainly looked at the subject of care. It is also an issue that has been raised here today, and that we are doing it in a way that works and that actually helps these parents. But speed is certainly important, because if we wait a long time before we have such a moratorium, there are already too many parents that we cannot afford or get into trouble as a result. Then there was Mr Van Rooijen's question about loan assistance and compensation for the losses. That was the issue mentioned by Mrs Karimi. I indicated in my first term that I would look into this together with the Minister for Social Affairs. I will inform you of the results. Then there was Mr Van der Linden's question about monitoring municipalities. We have agreed with the municipalities to join forces in this dossier. Where we have to provide financial compensation, municipalities help parents by actively approaching them and looking at what assistance is needed. Parents may, for example, need help in the area of debt, but they may also need help in the context of housing, mental health care or in other areas such as work. We have agreed with municipalities that we will continue to follow that closely. What exactly are the problems parents run into? What are we supposed to do at that point? And how can we ensure that municipalities are helped in this? This also applies to the issue of debt relief. We are therefore in close contact with municipalities to support them. They will keep us well informed of what they experience happening. I do not think I have answered the question sufficiently, because I see Mr Van der Linden running to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u166	I heard that very well from the Secretary of State in the first place. Compliments for that. That would be very good. But there are hundreds of municipalities in the Netherlands. My question was as follows. Municipal authorities have to do it. It's very much in the execution. What tools or information do you have for municipal councils, so that they can monitor whether they are doing well in their municipality, so that they can take a role in the local government to see if they are doing well in their municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u167	That's what I made agreements with the VNG. This ensures that information about what is asked of municipalities is actually provided. I hear you're asking specifically for city council members. I know they're active on this file. In many municipalities questions are asked in the city council. I can see that in the papers about this. But I will look closely, together with the VNG, whether it is desirable that there should still be specific information for municipal councils, because I notice that this issue is well followed in many municipal councils to ensure that affected, duped, parents in the specific municipalities are helped. I turn to Mr Essers' question about the legal arguments and the sustainability of the amendment specifically in the light of Article 1 of the ECHR. Others have also asked questions about this and a brief debate has also been held with Mr Crone. The question is whether there is a judgment or case law. We have not actually found any case-law at the moment that is specific to the particular situation of this moratorium, and case-law that helps us there. There is, of course, a great deal of case law on Article 1 of the ECHR; you have also indicated this. But this case law does not so much address this particular and specific situation. For example, it deals with loans, pensions, taxes; there are all kinds of case law on this. That list is there, of course, and we can draw it up, but it does not help us so much in this situation. Because, of course, we are looking for: is everything okay in this case too? And you're looking for an answer to that question, too. What did we do? In particular, the JenV Ministry has looked at this case law and, in particular, considered whether a general review framework could be derived from it. That review framework is also the framework applied by the Minister for Legal Protection, which is also supported orally by the national attorney. On the grounds that the moratorium constitutes a temporary infringement of the creditor's rights of redress and that the moratorium is in the interest of both the injured parents and creditors, that arrangement is considered proportionate. Mr Crone's point was that the moratorium does indeed resemble the moratorium under the Municipal Debt Relief Act. That's true, but it's just a little different. But of course, this moratorium has the same kind of effect, namely to create peace in order to solve the problem, both for citizens in debt relief, in our case for the affected parents, and for creditors. And, of course, it may be that in individual cases this arrangement would not be proportionate for a creditor. However, the creditor is paid, especially since we have again indicated that we will provide a solution if it is necessary and proportionate. And we have taken a close look at this in the light of the questions you have asked. Of course, there's always a risk, and I understand that very well, because you also want to agree something here that you're sure will work. Because we want this to work; that is also pronounced in the House of Representatives. There is, of course, the risk that there will eventually be conflict. Of course, we often have that risk, even in the discussions we have had about box 3. Well, I don't have to tell you about that, Mr. Essers, because you know a lot more about that than I do. So there is not always a guarantee, but we have, of course, said, especially in this case, that if we need it, we will actually act on things when problems arise. I would like to repeat that here too. That is what we will do to prevent parents from being put at risk, or that there is a disproportionate or disproportionate situation for a creditor. Well, I may have to add a little more here, but I'm going to listen to Mr Essers first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u168	Mr Essers is going to ask another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u169	Without repeating itself, I would ask for a legal basis for the application of that review framework, based on case law and literature. I think that is a very real question, and that it is a right of a Member of Parliament to receive written information about it as well. So I ask the Secretary of State once again to provide us with this in the next week. There must be case law. Of course, it is not about this particular situation, but about a similar case in which there is a temporary infringement of property rights. How'd that go? We're not looking for guarantees. I hear the Secretary of State say that again. We are not looking for guarantees, but we are looking for the balance, for the arguments pro and the arguments counter. No more, no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u170	I have heard your question very well, so I understand that you say: I would like to have that case law. But I can't just deliver it to you. If I could, I'd love to. Once again, I asked that question to the Ministry of Justice of JenV, to the Minister of Justice of JenV or, in this case, to the Minister for Legal Protection, to see if we have anything here that might help you with this connection. But apart from that general review framework, we do not have anything specific there. So I can't really help you in this case. Then I find it difficult to make that commitment to you. Of course, you have a right to do so, but if I do not have it, it is of course very difficult. I am trying to point out that you have to look at that balance between the parent on the one hand and the creditor on the other hand, because he does not have his right of redress for a time. Because we have struck a balance in the interests of both parents and creditors, we consider the scheme proportionate, but unfortunately I cannot help you with very specific case law. I'd love to, but I don't have any. It is important that there are, of course, several regulations that are very similar to what we are doing here; Mr Crone also said something about this. Indeed, in the friendly debt relief and also in the legal debt path we know, the Wsnp pathway, you have these types of seizure bans or temporary moratoria that help to ensure that things are sorted out and arranged and that agreements are made with creditors. This is often with a multi-annual effect to ensure that creditors are paid as much as possible while people can live, but we want this, of course, mainly to create that clean slate. Yeah, those arrangements are all a little bit different. Again, we haven't been able to find this. I therefore refer back to that general rule: a law in a formal sense allows for the infringement of property rights. We'll do the same in this case. The judicial review will then look at proportionality and subsidiarity, but we believe that this proportionality is met and that this amendment can stand up in court. Again, JenV indicated that in the letter. The country's attorney has also indicated that he considers this to be a highly justifiable position. I'm afraid that's all I can tell you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u171	Mr. Essers, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u172	My surprise is only rising. It seems that a position is being taken without case law. I'm already satisfied with that similar arrangement, if you put it on paper. What do we do in science when something has never really been decided? This applies to very few cases, by the way. Then we ask a number of experts to give their opinion on that. I can only advise you to do that, because now it's really skinny. All you're saying is that the Justice Department says it's defensive, but on what grounds? I think that's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u173	Do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u174	That's also supported by the state's attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u175	Once again, I am simply asking for a letter in which these arguments come back, so that I can also explain to my group the state of play on this issue. I think it is important to have this as a result of this debate. We all want it very much. I can assure you that law will be passed. We stand for the importance of the parents, but we also stand for the legal sustainability. If it is thin, I find that extraordinary... I think that there is good encouragement, but a legal argument also involves a consideration of the pros and contras. That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u176	You ask for a letter stating the legal basis on which the Secretary of State based her position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u177	I find that difficult. That's because you got that letter. That is the letter sent to the Lower House, containing the arguments of the Minister of JenV. So I'm actually going to repeat something. Again, if I could give you something extra besides what is in that letter and what I gave you today, I would be happy to do so. But then, in fact, we make the same argument. Once again, we can ask everyone to do expert analyses and so on, and so on, but in the meantime the parents have the problem that we are not giving them that moratorium.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u178	You have heard the answer and you will have to consider it. I call Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u179	Following on from Mr Essers, I would like to ask whether it is still possible to ask experts and top lawyers again this week, before next week's vote, apart from the literature and the statements and the like, which may not be there, to let their light shine on them in the next few days. I asked for this in writing and you did not accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u180	This is the same as Mr Essers' question, because we have had our lawyers look at it. We had the Ministry look into it. I asked the county attorney if he could support this, and he said he could. So I'm here a little... you're looking for something that I think we've delivered. So I think you're asking something that's not really going to help with the assessment of this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u181	The Secretary of State said earlier that, on the basis of the advice she has received, she considered it highly justified to be so. I would nevertheless like to point out that emergency law, with Article 8. There was no one in The Hague cabinet, ministers, lawyers, who had foreseen that Article 8 was not a sufficient basis for curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u182	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u183	Of course, we learned our lesson from that as the First Chamber. So we are now extra vigilant. I assume you'll take that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u184	That was a reaction, but do you still have a question for the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u185	The Secretary of State says that we think it is highly justifiable. But that was also found in Article 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u186	But what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u187	My question is: can you give us more guidance over the next few days? Well, let me put it this way. Mr Essers asked for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u188	I'm just trying to figure out another way to answer what I've already said. I have indicated that we have provided all the support we can, in today's debate, and certainly in the documents you have received. We cannot give much more certainty at the moment. Frankly, this is an issue in which we have said very clearly that if a situation arises in which there is a problem with this law, then we will act and act in it, and ensure that it does not lead to a situation that is not desirable for parents or for potential creditors in the problems. My point, therefore, is that, once again, I have tried to give you all the answers I can give you as best I can. Unfortunately, I cannot offer you any further insight into the case law or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u189	Secretary of State, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u190	I shall now turn to Mr Van Rooijen's question on the Charter and Article 17 thereof. I indicated, but I do not think the question was entirely about that, that the picture is that these articles have the same content and scope. I believe that we are not entirely in agreement and I do not know whether we are going to be. I am certainly not the ultimate expert here who could debate this with Mr Van Rooijen. I also think that fits in with another debate. The essence is always that if there is an individual case and someone who relies on it, a judge will have to see if that is necessary. Once again, we believe that the amendment has sufficiently guaranteed rights, but if it does not prove to be so, I will make sure that we are committed to this or that it is resolved. Apart from that, I am sure that with that weighting we have made between parents and creditors, we also have a workable moratorium. Mr President, I would like to conclude by thanking you and wish you every success in your new career. I'm sure that's gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-13.u192	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. We came at the end of this meeting. I thank everyone for the fine words. I would like to thank Members for the debate. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, the staff and the many people who are concerned about this issue. I would also like to thank everyone who made this meeting possible. I would like to point out that you have been given the certificate in which you can state, both as an employer and as an employee, that you can drive home responsibly at this late hour.
