ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on accountability for 2020. Once again, welcome to the leaders in trade union K and the MPs, and to the people in the public gallery. It's nice to have another visit in the House of Representatives on Wednesday. I'm afraid it wasn't possible because of corona. I hope you get a good impression of how this Parliament works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. May I also begin by congratulating Mr Heinen, who is still walking in the corridors, and Mrs Van Dijk? With Mr Heinen, I think I share the fascination for political economy, and with Mrs Van Dijk a slight Brabant's accent. What I found appealing and interesting about the contributions of the newcomers in this Chamber was that they both effortlessly quoted different articles from the Compatability Act. I have done so very often in recent years as rapporteur, together with Mr Sneller, especially Article 3.1. I've had the law book on my desk all day, too. Congratulations to both of you! Mr. Chairman. Especially for the historian Mark Rutte I start in Tuscany from the Renaissance, in the year 1202. Then Leonardo di Pisa wrote his masterpiece Liber Abaci, the book of calculations. It contains treatises on algebra, geometry and what we would now call business administration. His most simple contribution is also the most influential. Leonardo di Pisa, fond of numbers, the man of the fibonacci series, said: let us like the Arabs start using the numbers 0 to 9 instead of those clumsy Roman characters. Those numbers 0 to 9 became the basis for the double-sided accounting system. The work of Leonardo di Pisa was used and applied in the first half of the fifteenth century in Florence by Cosimo de' Medici and above all by his accountant Giovanni Benci in a refined double-sided overview of creditors and debtors. Not only did this create an insight into assets and debts, but also into value creation. That's how De' Medici built a powerful empire. Mr. Chairman. A new method of accounting: the accountant as a revolutionary. More than 500 years after De Medici made a fortune with it, we may once again be at an accounting crossroads. Due to the winning case of Milieudefensie v. Shell, climate change becomes one of the major dossiers for every financial director. Companies will need to provide much more information on climate risks, and they need to be audited by auditors. Wide prosperity in the value creation of companies, you might say, and at least a broad responsibility. This shows that accounting is much more than numbers. The Accountability debate is not an accountant debate, but a debate about power and counterpower, about goals and achievements, about the choices we make for the direction of our country. Because what applies to CEOs for companies like Shell vis-à-vis their stakeholders is equally true for the cabinet vis-à-vis the parliament. Regardless of the exceptional nature of the past year and the exceptional nature of the policy in this corona crisis, accountability is not exceptional. It is at the heart of our democracy. Mr. Chairman. Even in 2020, despite its budget law, the Chamber was set up for an accomplished fact. Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act plays a central role in this, but this article should be carefully used. And that's where too many things go wrong. What actions have the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance taken to use Article 2.27 purely and carefully, particularly in the corona crisis? And what lessons have been learned, including from previous Court conclusions on the violation of budget law? Mr. Chairman. Like CEOs, our ministers are at an accounting crossroads. If Shell has to answer for widespread prosperity, then certainly the Cabinet. The corona crisis shows the great importance of broad prosperity. The cabinet response acknowledges that. The lack of colleagues in the workplace, the importance of good friends and fine neighbors, but also the inequality in wide prosperity between different groups of people, because home education is three high behind difficult or because you already had bad health when you got corona. Access to culture, museums or, where necessary, access to mental health care. The corona crisis sometimes made it painfully clear that well-being and broad prosperity are not a cyclical luxury thing, but the core of our existence, which should be at the heart of our policy. How does the cabinet look back on the past year from that perspective? Are we also going to follow longer-term objectives? We see that our prosperity is now at the expense of future generations and prosperity elsewhere in the world. And we see that we are not yet on schedule to get the SDGs. Are we really going to integrate broad prosperity into the fiscal and accountability cycle? Does the Prime Minister really stand for this, even from the new administrative culture? If I understood that so well, we are really at an accounting crossroads, with important consequences for how we make policies and ask for accountability. I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. An innovation expert once taught me that the secret of the best product lies not so much in that one brilliant idea, but especially in the endless re-realization of improvements. Again and again there is that cycle: trying, implementing, evaluating and learning. And this is also at the heart of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act: setting goals, but also learning from policy effects. But what about the countless tax arrangements? Mr Nijboer mentioned this as well. There are no targets, as in the case of the agricultural exemption. Targets are lacking, as in the case of annuity deductions. And a clear effect is actually lacking very often. The Court of Auditors rightly points to previous evaluation, even from 1999. The Minister of Finance takes the recommendations to heart, but it seems to me that we are drawing too little lessons. What is going wrong here in the political process? Does the Cabinet do too little with assessments from Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act? Or should we look at ourselves as a room? I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. We often talk about the execution since the supplemental affair. The implementation by agencies such as the UWV or the Tax Administration is crucial for citizens. I call that the 'execution in a broad sense'. But there is also the implementation in a narrow sense, namely the management of departments. We are seeing an increasing trend in imperfections, and unlawful obligations and spending. We're going over the 1% tolerance limit. What lessons does the cabinet draw from this? Because it's not just about corona measures, and it's not just about violation of budget law. How is it that VWS has been warned so often before the Court of Auditors raised serious objections this year? What coordinating role does the Minister of Finance play on the basis of Articles 4.11 to 4.16 of the Compatibility Act? What powers does he have, or what powers does he lack? Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the real estate management of the Defense Department. The Court of Auditors is clear about the causes: no financial priority is given to them. In fact, the budget available is spent on malfunctions and repairs, which could have been avoided with enough money for maintenance. How are we going to do better in the future? What lessons are being learned? I mean, why don't you just put in the benefit-burden system? Mr. Chairman. Similar questions can also be asked with regard to BZK. For example, what will the BZK do with the recommendation to work more actively with the problems of shared service organisations, agencies and ZBOs? And we have talked about ICT and information security more often during accountability debates. Where does it go wrong? What's the plan? Where are the risks? What lessons do we draw? That certainly plays in a year of zooming and working at home. Mr. Chairman. In this Accountability debate we reflect and try to learn. For example, the story of Cosimo de' Medici and Giovanni Benci. As I said, thanks to their sophisticated system of accountability, they built a powerful financial empire. And how did it end? In 1455 Giovanni Benci died. The Medici had lost their master accountant. And when Cosimo himself died about ten years later, he was succeeded by De' Medici's who were more interested in parties and parties than in accounting and accounting. A few decades later, the empire was finally destroyed. Mr. Chairman. With good accountability, we are capable of great things. Then the integration of the Wider Prosperity Monitor into the policy cycle can lead to an accounting revolution. But if the base is not in order, then there is also a dark side. That's the lesson the De' Medici's are teaching us. And that is precisely where the great importance of this Accountability debate lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. Very nice. That's how I hear it from field K. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I also begin by congratulating colleagues Heinen and Van Dijk for their beautiful maiden speeches. One called it "middle class," the other "the common man"; I saw kinship. Mr. Chairman. The German philosopher Immanuel Kant asked four fundamental questions 240 years ago, with which he actually tried to summarize all the core problems: "What can I know? What do you want me to do? What can I hope for? What is man?" These questions sent his mind and are still a handle to analyze what goes good or bad. Precisely in a debate of accountability, these questions help to make some important comments on how our money has been spent over the past year. First of all, question one: what should I know? The answer is: at the moment simply too little. The Court's conclusions are clear: the budget law of the House of Representatives is too often undermined by inadequate or late information. The cabinet often used the pandemic as an excuse to act quickly and make accountability equally subordinate. However, as the President of the Court of Auditors pointed out here, what is crooked remains crooked, even in times of crisis, even though it gives context. Most of the illegality of the 5.1 billion extra corona expenditure last year at VWS consisted of premature information provision to both Chambers. For example, there are no receipts for ventilation equipment, there is uncertainty as to whether invoiced and paid tests have actually been delivered, etc. No receipts, no proof. It's irresponsible in several ways. The Audit Service of the Netherlands and the Ministry of Finance eventually had to step in in order to be able to establish a responsibility for the Chamber at VWS. How does the Minister of Finance look back on that? Moreover, without knowledge of what is happening, the parliament was regularly placed in front of an accomplished fact, as with the Catshuis regulation. And mind you, the budgetary right of the Chamber is not just about informing that Chamber, it's about approving it by our Chamber. This was particularly true in the case of emergency measures. These often did not reach the Chamber or too late. The tolerance threshold was exceeded in no less than nine budget chapters. That is more than in previous years, but fits in a trend. That is why I have a number of questions. If the emergency provisions are not used too often, my question is to the Prime Minister. Do ministers not see this as a kind of new normal, taking this route rather than using normal budgetary and procurement policies? Last year, too, the alarm clock was already sounded about the provision of information and the Minister for Finance said that he would take this to heart. To quote a predecessor of his: what exactly did he do differently and better? Then I come to question two: what should I do? There's a lot to do. It has rightly been said that our self-image as a financially well-organised and modern country is certainly not justified. Take the VWS grants. Last year, the Christian Union Group was already concerned about budget law and the circumvention of state aid rules. That concern is not gone. The quality of the State aid tests has improved with new subsidies, but it is still due to legal errors in grants of up to EUR 570.2 million by 2020. That's not a small beer. That is why once again my predecessor Eppo Bruins's question: what is the Minister of Finance doing to get a better grip on this? Mr. Chairman. From grant management I go to management and maintenance. That is not a popular topic in politics The Hague and for a ruler it is not really something you score with. A new barracks, a new bridge, a new theatre, yes, that speak to the imagination. But the existing well maintained? Well, that's part of the job. But the Court of Auditors is clear: the late maintenance of the defence sector in particular has been building up for years and that is damaging our armed forces. The budget is inadequate and deals with repairs rather than prevention and maintenance. There are fires being put out that didn't have to start. There is also too little visibility of the state of the real estate. That's worrying, but not new. How does the Secretary of State contribute not only to more Defence budget, but also to a better view of the state of Defence real estate? After all, the responsible government real estate company falls under its regime, its ministry. The Ministry of IenW basically knows the same problem, although unlike the Ministry of Defence, no works of art have been lost, as they are called there. The maintenance situation is becoming more urgent every year and the growing delayed maintenance at Rijkswaterstaat causes more and more failures. The delayed maintenance is increasing. A few years from 1 to 1.4 billion euros are needed more than is currently available. Already this leads to incidents. See for example the Merwede Bridge and the Thompson Bridge. Fortunately, it's not the same as in Italy. We can still see the images of the collapsed bridge in Genoa. So I do not want to be too dramatic about it, but at the same time this cabinet does not go beyond sticking patches on a structurally open wound. This neglect of good maintenance you see wider. The Rutte III cabinet has often reversed visible cuts in executive services from a previous period, but the back office in many ministries cannot cope with a crisis. I would therefore like a response from the Prime Minister to the following questions. What is his commitment to going from plaster sticking to structural healing of the maintenance wound? What's his vision on this? Does the Prime Minister, for example, wish to invest less in the construction of new roads and more in maintenance and replacement of the existing ones? And in what may sound boring, but what suddenly turns out to be oh so important in crisis time, namely a tight business operation, often summarised under the heading overhead, for which no one comes to the Malieveld? Then there are the tax regulations. There too, the judgment is clear. There's no shortage of good intentions. However, the results cannot or cannot be assessed in the absence of objectives and targets. The four tax schemes examined do not come close to the conditions within the tax control framework. No purpose, no evaluation, no responsible minister, no overview, no result. For 20 years, the Court of Auditors' conclusions have been virtually the same as regards tax arrangements. Take the annuity deduction. A good goal, but too complex to measure whether it is the right measure and whether enough people are achieved with it. The makers of Monopoly have not deleted the probability card "Liftent expires" after 85 years for nothing, because it is out of time. Is it not time, following this board game, to go critically through our cards of chance for tax regulations and to cut the proliferation of tax regulations? The Court recommends that this be done on the basis of the existing review framework in the national budget rules. That is what we have been trying to do for years, but it is not happening in practice. In short, it is high time to reform and delete tax regimes and surcharges. At the beginning of last year, the Prime Minister indicated in this Chamber that he wanted to do the same. I hope he still sees it that way. His club's election programme was not exactly ambitious on that point. So once again the question: does he still support his words from the supplementary debate on 21 January 2020? He said, "How is the future of the surcharge system going? If it is up to this cabinet, the new Secretary of State will also work out how we can get into a situation where we can step by step get rid of this supplement scheme." What is the plan of the campaign and that of the rulers of finance, to make tax arrangements and allowances available to the whole Christmas tree? I can't wait. High time for question three: what can I hope? There is not only a lot to do; there is also enough to hope for, and that may also be said, there is also a lot going well. The Court mentions the NOW and TOGS, but also the improvement plan of VWS offers some hope. There will be an investigation and an opinion from an external agency to ensure better structural financial management at VWS. What does that even mean? Is the Ministry good against health crises in terms of financial management? Or will the Court of Auditors no longer encounter any shortcomings? Mr. Chairman. I realize it's easy to ask difficult questions to the cabinet. I therefore hope not only for better health at VWS and so on, but also for better health here in our Chamber. It was the Chamber that constantly asked for speed instead of care. Rather quickly a load of mouth caps than sound financial management. Everything had to be done quickly and everything had to be done now, no matter what the cost. In a panic buy, you have other things on your mind than the financial records. It was simply not an issue, not even here. The reality is that there is tension between speed and care. That is why, in healthy times, financial management, business management and politicians often have boring other things like overhead in order. I hope so. Finally, question four: what is man? The last question Kant asked actually includes the first three questions. Although it lends itself to extensive existential discussions outside this Chamber, it is also appropriate in this debate to deal not only with money spent but also with human beings. We are doing it for people, for their health, for their well-being, to do their justice, even after unprecedented injustice. Whether it's due to misguided extracurricular parents or gasquakes hit Groningers, with a look at the Monitor Brede Prosperity we know that it goes far beyond treating a human as a calculating homo economicsian. It is precisely about treating a human being as a human being, in relation to the other, here and there, now and later, in relation to each other, and in relation to our environment. Even if the corona pandemic does not change our human deficit, together we will have to find an answer in politics, society and economic order after corona, and the deficit kings that have come to light more than ever in the corona crisis, from care to security, from living to working, from taxing to keeping what is entrusted to us. With this perhaps most important comment, I will conclude my speech, with the question to the Prime Minister to make his comments precisely in response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u7	What a mild tone of the Christian Union. I am used to at least hearing some anti-capitalism in the words of the Christian Union. We always agreed on that in words. In practice, not so much of it came from the Christian Union, but I did appreciate the fact that this bookkeeping mentality of as much profit, profit and commerce as possible is not above everything in society and that we must turn away from it for various reasons. I therefore hope to hear a little more from Mr Grinwis about what is happening now in all those companies that receive billions of taxpayers' money and still pay bonuses to all those top men. Greed is winning all those things that we think are important in society. I hope to hear from Mr Grinwis that we must distance ourselves from that greed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you to Mr Alkaya for this question. First of all, I think it is very important to realize that it is very easy to be merciless at this time and that this time can also use a little more grace. That's different than covering up for mistakes. It means that you approach another, the cabinet or anyone else, with respect and understanding of the context and that you are most critical of yourself. That is actually my response to the first part of his interruption. The second part: last week we had a debate on the support package. Then I made it very clear, on behalf of the Christian Union, that what Booking.com has done is really horrible and morally reprehensible and that the Minister had to climb on the phone after the debate to get that amount back. In the end, after a lot of social and political pressure, they did so themselves. At that time, I also made it very clear that the bonuses they pay at the top of this American company in crisis time are absolutely impossible. At that time I also made it clear that such a bonus for the top man of Air France-KLM is absolutely impossible. They should take an example of Rhineland capitalism, which is often represented by family companies, such as Auping, who come to the conclusion of their own movement: "We had a dip for a moment, we thought we needed the support, but we don't need it. Our company is doing well again. You know what? We will return the aid in advance without anyone asking for it." I have set these companies as an example to the cabinet and to all of us. You talked about a mild tone regarding that kind of behaviour and bonuses at booking.com and at Air France KLM. The lack of that sharp tone today does not mean that I am not very keen on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u9	This has been corrected somewhat. I'm glad. I've seen that contribution, too. What happens at the booking.coms is, of course, scandalous, but they are companies that are media-genic and appeal to the imagination. I'm afraid this is happening at many more companies. With the Christian Union, could we ask the Cabinet to keep track of what companies are doing even more in this way, but who do not get the media, pay bonuses and yet in some way pass taxpayers' money on to shareholders and top executives? That is what we should avoid. Can we ask the Cabinet together to keep that list, a blacklist, of these kinds of companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u10	If I go too griffon on blacklists right now, I might nullify my own first reaction about the merciless. I would like to pass on Mr Alkaya's question in the following way: what can the government do to promote this Rhineland capitalism of family businesses, with care not only for profits, but also for employees, for customers and for those products? Should this possibly be done by means of fiscal measures? I don't know; we just had a critical debate about the huge Christmas tree. Indeed, it should not be the case that the payment of bonuses is fiscally attractive. I'm curious how the Cabinet views this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u11	A question from me, too. I'm also used to a slightly more spiced sound from the Christian Union. I've been with the financial spokesmen for 15 years. I hope there's still a bit tooth for the future, because this is really sweet, to be honest. I haven't heard about Sywert from Lienden either. Perhaps you could give us the real, spicy Christian Union sound on that matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you for Mr Van Dijck's view of the Christian Union as a spicy party and for having found this a mild, somewhat merciful contribution. As I said, last week, in the debate on the support package, I was rather sharp towards grasshopper capitalism. Today I have focused on some other points. So much has been said about this one deal from this one gentleman. I like it when people step forward because they want to do something good for society, but I find it sad to see that in a case where people may have started with good intentions, it ends up not telling the truth and self-enrichment. I'm assuming this is getting to the bottom of it. It is in everyone's interest that this does not continue to slumber as the receipt affair once slumbered. As far as I am concerned, there is everything to be done to get the bottom of this and to do justice. The best thing, of course, is that this money, which has now been collected as a profit and has been put aside somewhere, is returned straight to VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u13	I'm glad to hear you don't approve of what happened. But it's about 100 million, isn't it? 100 million taxpayers' money. Do you consider that the investigation of "Wc duck investigates Wc duck" is sufficient or should there be more perseverance to hear the people under oath to find out what is true of it? Did we pay too much for the masks? Were they really necessary? Is it true that the consortium said they didn't want to, but that it was pushed through at the Minister's level? Did the CDA play a part in this? Those are all questions that need to be raised in that investigation. I'm afraid all of these questions will remain unanswered if toilet duck does that research itself. We need to hear these people under oath. Are you going to join the PVV's request?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u14	Firstly, no researcher has any interest at the moment in sweeping anything under the carpet, because he knows that everyone, even up to and including Mr Van Dijck of the PVV, is watching and that it must be done well. Secondly, next year, in its report on the ministries, the General Court is most likely to take this case out and make a sharp assessment. But that is, of course, at this High College of State itself. Thirdly, we are going to have a parliamentary survey in which this will definitely be examined in the near future. So going back to that first researcher: whoever gives the order, it's not in the interest of that researcher to sweep anything under the carpet. Finally, Mr President, perhaps one more thing. Mr Sneller rightly pointed out that Mr Van Dijck has been a member of this beautiful house for 15 years. In all these years, about every year, something has been said about financial management at VWS. Let us work together to ensure that financial management at these ministries, at VWS, is settled in good times, so that we never get these kinds of transactions in bad times again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u15	That's a long story, but in short, it's going on a long road. You mention the Court of Auditors and a survey in the distant future. It will all learn, but we must act now, in my view. We need to move on now. I have another question, because I still have some interruptions, I believe, and this is the only coalition party left. Are you going to issue a discharge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u16	First of all about the reaction that it would be a long story: it was a clear story, and if Mr Van Dijck did not hear it, then he should also have his ears checked after this debate, I would say. Secondly, on discharge: I expect good answers from the college first. Mr Van Dijck has heard that we are taking a critical but constructive approach to this cabinet. We are also looking at the annual reports that are before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u17	Your last interruption, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u18	About discharge and answers: I assume that further research is needed into what has happened to financial maladministration at VWS. It's about 5.1 billion. That's the whole BZK budget. Then this Minister really can't convince you with a nice answer so that you suddenly say: oh, then it's okay. Don't you think we should zoom in on what happened at VWS before we give discharge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u19	That is why we have this debate. The Court of Auditors has done so. That 5.1 billion in illegal expenditure has been addressed and arrested by the Court of Auditors, so to speak. Once again, the Court of Auditors also says that the 5.1 billion did not all go up in smoke. It didn't all go to mask deals that might turn out to be a little shady. No, it's part of the health bonus, for example. It's partly in ventilation equipment that's been delivered, but there's no receipt for it. So let's not paint the picture that didn't happen to the 5.1 billion. It just didn't happen right now. I therefore think that Mr Heinen's question to the Minister of Finance is also very appropriate. He asked: how are we doing at the moment with the belly-up action to all those nursing homes and so on who did order those things, but where no receipt has been delivered, to check whether it has indeed been delivered to them and whether they are indeed using it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u20	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to congratulate and congratulate the two maiden speakers. With regard to Mr Heinen's speech: you wonder what kind of place that was where a very large map of Russia hung. He's worked out pretty well, hasn't he? Here's what I was wondering. He talked about his admiration for Thatcher and Reagan and then about his almost disapproval of Trump and Johnson. He may not realize that they are actually Thatcher's and Reagan's children, ideologically speaking. Where there might have been a community spirit with Thatcher and Reagan, Johnson and Trump were "everyone for themselves and God for all." There is also a direct line to, for example, the behavior of a Sywert, excuse, Van Lienden, who actually uses the adage "every man for himself, and God too." I am very pleased that Mr Heinen says that we see things differently and I want to do it differently. That gives hope for the future. And Mrs. Van Dijk actually had a wonderful story about the common man. It seemed a bit harsh and spartan, but also connected to that warm southern family atmosphere. As far as I am concerned, she also won the day prize, because she said that yesterday's solutions are not always tomorrow's answers. That's actually exactly what this wonderful book is about, "The Vulnerable Prosperity of the Netherlands, 1850-2050." Actually, you don't have to read the book anymore, because that's exactly the message, but I'm going to hand it over to you anyway, because it describes the broad prosperity in a very beautiful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u22	Why don't we do that right now, through the clerk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u23	We could do that right away. I wanted to sign it, but well... It is by the way a book of the CBS, in which the Monitor Brede Prosperity is explained. A wonderful combination of Geert Mak, the century of my father, and Piketty, Capital in the Twenty-First Century. It's a wonderful treatise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u24	Very thoughtful!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u25	As far as we are concerned, that is also the subject of today's debate, Mr President, the broad prosperity and the breakthrough that we need. The year 2020 was a huge year for many people, including the cabinet. While the premium affair was still close to this cabinet, Rutte III was already overtaken by the corona crisis. Perhaps that would be less if Minister Hoekstra had not called it a "black swan," but since the Party for Animals is in the Chamber, far ahead of my time and far ahead of the time of Minister Hoekstra, we have, following scientists, warned the successive Dutch Cabinets of real risks of zoonoses and pointed out ways to prevent them. Most of them were the Rutte Cabinets. If Minister Hoekstra even calls Corona "a black swan," I ask him now, a year later, whether he agrees with us that that image is not correct. We should've seen it coming. That would be a success: learning from the past. I would like to mention a number of successes of this cabinet from 2020. In the corona crisis, for example, minks were very susceptible to the virus. That's highly uncomfortable for those minks and dangerous for people. By a motion from the Party for the Animals, the cabinet has already decided to close down. Very good! For example, the Dutch cabinet has achieved a very great success in terms of broad prosperity, particularly in the areas of "later" and "everywhere," as the Mercosur Treaty is repealed. This is also due to a motion by the Party for Animals, but that is a detail. So this is a victory for broad prosperity later and elsewhere, you would say. Mr. Chairman. Before I go further on the broad prosperity, we must also assess the year 2020 on the corona policy of the cabinet. This policy knew its own logic and was not always understandable, because while the Netherlands was closing, corona variants were simply flown in via Schiphol. Due to the weak advice not to travel, Corona still had free play in the intelligent lockdown. The cabinet seemed mainly concerned with the impact of corona on aviation rather than the impact of aviation on corona, while there are several studies that already support the intuitive conclusion that aviation has mainly helped spread the virus. The airline was the pink elephant of 2020. I'd like a response. And at all costs, a rescue operation was rigged for KLM. Mr President, there is more. The Financial Dagblad headlined on 7 June: "The Corona Crisis as a Political Mistake Festival." The structural weaknesses in VWS' financial management were exposed. There has already been enough talk about this; for the sake of completeness, I agree with that. Mr. Chairman. 2020 could have been the turning point in history. Who did not call for a sustainable recovery with investments, for example in the energy transition? But never have drastic or harsh sustainability conditions been set. The following question must therefore be asked: are we at least getting value for money? The Court concludes that there is a proliferation of tax regimes. It has already been mentioned: 116 schemes which are unclear whether they are effective and at what cost. That's very hard. The Court gives an example of the agricultural exemption in the income of corporation tax. I'd like to get a response on this point anyway. Does the Minister of Finance agree with this view on the agricultural exemption, or does the Minister of Finance consider this to be a black swan that suddenly appeared and was never expected? The President of the Court of Auditors, Arno Visser, said: "If the effectiveness of an arrangement is not clearly established, then it is time for a different approach." Does the Minister agree with this approach? And if so, does that also apply to fossil fuels? These examples indicate that policies do not always move sufficiently along with the changing policy context. There are more examples: some of the pig production rights were welcomed by the 2018 buy-out scheme, with European taxpayers' money, and later sold back to other pig farmers with a discount. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Yes, I can continue with examples. For the sake of clarity, I will mention one more: does it really help with the main goals of the Netherlands, namely to tackle the climate and biodiversity crisis, for example, to build more asphalt on the A27? Natural recovery measures in the context of the nitrogen crisis: the result cannot be verified. You can't do that, can you? The pressure on Dutch nature is enormous, according to the Monitor Brede Welvaart. And that's how we get to that theme. The broad prosperity, the longer-term balance between here and now, and later and elsewhere, last seen around 1960, is what matters. That's what the President of the Court of Auditors says. The Monitor Brede Prosperity shows that some things are going well, but other things are not good at all. The fact that we have it right, seems to be the main message of the CBS, is mainly because we are now importing it later and elsewhere; we are using it as doping for now, as it were later and elsewhere. In 2020, Earth Overshoot Day fell worldwide on August 22nd, but for the Netherlands you will never guess, Chairman of the Committee on 3 May. This monitor shows, again, that our prosperity is at the expense of future generations and other countries. The country's footprint shows that our national consumption takes up two and a half times our own surface. Let that work on you... That can't be sustained. And our global impression is probably even bigger than we think, because the Monitor Brede Prosperity indicates how much money we send to developing countries as aid, but it does not reflect how much value is actually being taken from those developing countries, for example by the Netherlands. The estimates are that 90 billion are illegally disappearing from Africa, and the Netherlands plays an important role in this. Now I know that it is dangerous to talk about indicators that are not there yet, and how they are, and whether we should not have more indicators. But this Monitor Brede Prosperity is actually developing, so the question is: can we look at it once, at how much we withdraw from other countries through tax avoidance? The same is true, in fact, of the first time we talked about the Monitor Brede Prosperity, I also referred to this as "animal welfare" in the Animal Code. It is good in itself that we also include an indicator of animal welfare. Mr President, I will conclude. The monitor is an extremely important instrument, and at the same time we know that it is still a fragile plant in the Chamber. I thought it was a wonderful story by Bart Snels about the Renaissance: 1200. It actually took us 800 years to achieve the perfection we now have with numbers. And you have to imagine that the Monitor Brede Prosperity is actually in the year 800, so we still have a long, long way to go. But that doesn't mean it's not very important. In that context, therefore, and this brings me to the conclusion, Mr.... much more ambition is needed in order to integrate that concept of 'wide prosperity' with us. In fact, what I would like to mention is a scale leap in the knowledge and application of that broad concept of prosperity, not only among MPs or policy staff, but actually among all officials. Is it not necessary that this should also be part of the standard training offer of those officials, for example in the renowned Public Finance Training for Higher Officials? I'm considering a motion in that area. Mr President, I would like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u27	Thank you. This year's Forum for Democracy has done a great deal of work on monitoring the VWS budget. We provide one of the two rapporteurs for the VWS annual report. We've asked a lot of questions and requested additional documents. In addition, a number of financial experts from the business community are looking with us for the first time at the public VWS-pieces. They're freaked out when they read these pieces. I will largely limit our contribution to this Accountability debate to the VWS Annual Report and also share some insights from our financial experts with you. Once again, as we know, there is a lot wrong with the VWS budget. The General Court concludes that the financial accountability information at total level largely does not meet the requirements. So there's actually a big insufficient amount of information. Around 5.1 billion in commitments cannot be properly accounted for. We are particularly concerned about the 1.3 billion direct awards that the Court of Auditors considers to be unsubstantiated. The danger of nepotism and corruption is therefore lurking. The most astonishing thing is the EUR 592 million in expenditure, which simply cannot be verified whether the performance has been achieved. In other words, the EUR 592 million has so far gone up in smoke. In fact, the report of the Audit Service mentions an amount of EUR 694 million. As a parliament, we have no idea what this amount has been spent on. Furthermore, the Court concludes that VWS did not inform Parliament in good time, that fraud and risk management is inadequate and that the financial administration is not in order. And, here it comes, that's been the case for 20 years. I quote from the Court's accountability survey, page 29: "We note that financial management at the VWS Ministry was not robust and grant management was already a serious focus for the corona crisis. Not for nothing has the General Court in the last twenty years, seventeen times the management of grants been classified as an imperfection in business management." So we do not seem to be dealing here with a temporary corona problem, but with a chronic organizational and cultural problem at VWS, the full extent of which has only now become clear to us, with the corona crisis. Despite all previous improvement plans, VWS has apparently never addressed this problem seriously. Given the seriousness of the situation and in order to keep a mirror in mind, I am now paraphrasing the core findings of our expert on the VWS annual reports and the reports of the General Court and the Audit Service. He says: "VWS is a large department in which a lot of money goes into, directly and indirectly. An organisation of this size can be expected to function adequately in complex and crisis-like situations and to be in control with regard to policy, implementation and review of achievements, large contracts, expenditure and receipts, risks and compliance with rules, procedures and standards. Of course, a very sudden and acute crisis can have an initial impact, but that should not be a problem after a few months with a well-managed, organised and manned organisation. Unfortunately, the situation over the past year and the years before shows a completely different picture. The organization seems to be financially completely out of control. Reports from the Audit Service Rijk show that there have been serious shortcomings in the organisation, risk management and reporting for several years. It is even worse that despite repeated warnings and recommendations by the management of VWS and by the directors, these issues do not seem to have been addressed seriously. There's no decent reporting. There is no decent risk, control and compliance framework within VWS. The organisational and management processes seem rather messy and ad hoc and the learning capacity of the organisation seems very limited. The covid crisis is led by the leadership and the minister as a reason why the organization has been out of control, but the causes are much deeper and have been around for a long time. They lie in an insufficient professional organisation, with insufficient knowledge and skills, an ad hoc governance culture and a relaxed attitude towards financial management and risk management. The annual report is not of the quality to be expected of an organisation of this size. For example, compare the annual report with that of a large listed company. Then there's a few things that stand out. The explanation of the figures is rather generic and in qualitative terms. The specific impact of covid is not highlighted separately and coherently. On the contrary, it is a confusing list of numbers. Everything is mixed with "business as usual" and therefore not transparent at all. There is no systematic understanding of the main risks and of VWS' short- and long-term obligations, contracts, guarantees and advances. The equipment costs of the own organisation are explained and analysed in a limited manner. The very critical observations of the General Court and the Audit Service are not sufficiently discussed. Finally, the annual report became relatively late and therefore the covid progress should be reported in the first quarter of 2021." In other words, the annual report is a moderate document and certainly does not have the quality level that could be expected from a large department like VWS. The level of a well-listed company is not reached. It should be. In short, from the pieces we now have, the image of VWS comes forward when an organization that is completely out of control, runs on adrenaline, has underestimated its financial function heavily, is still buying ad hoc and amateur, has too weak leadership in the organization, too much self-inventing the wheel and needs huge internal and external reinforcement in relation to procurement, finance, control process and management. In other words, and to put it bluntly, it's been a financial mess at VWS for decades. This has led, among other things, to the fact that in the last year handy entrepreneurs were able to run away with hundreds rather than tens of millions of euros in taxpayers' money. Moreover, there is no reason to believe that other ministries are better off. This sleeping room has let all this happen over the past decades and let it go. Fortunately, FVD has already requested a large number of documents, including the partial audits at VWS, weeks ago, so that we can start the transparency that is needed for the fattening of this Augias stable. We will continue to do so in the coming weeks as a FVD and come forward with proposals. Think, for example, of temporarily putting VWS under financial control, having the organisation vetted by a top consultancy agency and bringing in the financial knowledge and expertise from the Dutch business community to put an end to the financial maladministration that has apparently become the norm under the party cartel in ministries such as VWS over the past few decades. In this debate, we give the cabinet the following suggestion and questions. Firstly, we call on the government to explain in detail in a separate document the covid obligations, expenditure, guarantees, advances and realisations for the current financial year, but also for 2020. In doing so, it is important that everything should also be clearly reflected in departmental accountability and fully in line with the findings of the General Court and the Audit Service Rijk. Secondly, how does the Minister see his own task and that of finance to ensure that financial management always meets the highest standards? How does the Minister look back on his role at VWS at this point? Finally, the most important thing. Among the public final reports of the Audit Service Rijk and the General Court are always reports of partial audits and partial investigations that have been carried out. Last night, when we answered our actual questions about the VWS budget, we did not receive these reports. We would like the Chamber to have full transparency, given the serious situation in VWS. That is why we ask the government to send these partial reports and audits to the Chamber within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you. Maybe it is good to repeat that there is a special legislative consultation on the annual report of VWS on 23 June. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. My clock's waving, but I think it's gonna be okay. You get a little more time now and then and then a little less, but I'll leave it up to you to make it eight minutes. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Heinen on their beautiful maiden speeches. I would like to say to Mr Heinen: if his children are as inspired by him later as Mrs Van Dijk was by her father, then that education is fine! And if Mrs Van Dijk's father had experienced her maiden speech here, I think he would have been incredibly proud of you and he would have said: you have just said that beautifully. Then I would have said to him: I fully agree. Beautiful. Mr. Chairman. I've been looking up a few times today. It's so good to have people back in the bleachers. I also did a little nod to this one and that one; very nice. I think we can really appreciate that again. I hope it stays that way in the future. All right, then, to the content of this day. Because, of course, the government has to answer for everything that has happened recently, but I also have to answer for that which I have studied and put forward here. Of course, I'm gonna leave a lot of questions here too. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with the comparison with a house on fire. If that's true, and the fire department's coming, and he's driving a little fast down the street, no one's complaining about it afterwards, I guess. That is not what we are doing about the water damage that may have been caused in a house that has been put out. That's the kind of thing it takes to put out the fire. Anyway, if there's an analysis of how it all happened, and then it turns out that there were no smoke detectors in that house and that the fire safety of the house was under control, then of course the homeowner has something to explain. I draw that comparison, because that also applies somewhat to the expenditure of the Empire during this time of Corona. The Court of Auditors is very critical of the rising rates of illegal expenditure and commitments, both above the tolerance limit this year. Let's just name it: that's serious. You could say, of course, that's because of corona. But Corona doesn't wipe out all the objections. And even without the corona expenditure, a large part of the government's expenditure and obligations is unlawful. Mr. Chairman. You know the SGP. We are a party of financial solidity, but we consider financial legality to be at least as important. The SGP is therefore concerned about the degree of illegality of expenditure and obligations. There is no such thing as an occasional thing, just this year. There is a structural problem that has been going on for a long time. Not only is there water damage due to corona; fire safety too, this must be taken figuratively from the financial home of the Empire does not seem to be entirely in order. Mr. Chairman. I am assuming that the Minister of Finance and the other Ministers and Secretary of State are committed to resolving the problems. But my question to the Minister of Finance is: what is he going to do in order to get this legitimacy of expenditure and obligations in order, so that we can see real progress next year? The Court of Auditors' documents show that it is often a question of errors that could have been avoided quite easily. It is very often that the First or Second Chamber is not informed in good time or that other requirements of the Compatability Act are not met. However, these are fundamental issues that should not be the subject of mistakes with regard to the SGP. And I understand that this happens occasionally, but that should not be out of line as we see it now and then. My question is whether the Minister sees this in the same way and, in fact, in the light of a previous question, how we will actually prevent these mistakes, which can be avoided, from now on. Mr. Chairman. An important part of the uncertainty surrounding the legality of expenditure is related to corona expenditure. Sectors affected by the concession alone may have been unduly spent more than 36%. And of course the Chamber has been warned about this, and perhaps it is also part of the need that breaks the law, but corona cannot be the argument for everything. Last year, in the very first debate on corona support, I tabled a motion to prevent improper use of corona support. What has been done about this motion and what lessons does the Minister draw from the Court of Auditors' criticism of corona expenditure and, above all, from the expenditure that is still planned? Mr. Chairman. Many colleagues have already referred to the problems at the VWS Ministry. In recent times, it has been a great deal about the 5.1 billion in which financial management has failed. However, the corona crisis also exposes structural problems in VWS. It is very good that, in this respect, the Ministry will come up with an improvement plan. That plan states that VWS will keep the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance regularly informed of the progress and results achieved, but I assume that this is a question that will also be regularly informed to the House of Representatives. I'd like a commitment on that point. My question is: should this improvement plan not also be broader, and perhaps even nationalised, especially as regards information security and IT management, to which colleagues have already referred? Because a lot of imperfections have to do with that. There too, there are structural problems. For years, the Court has been pointing to deficiencies in information security and IT management in all ministries. In a digital world with risks of cyber attacks, for example, this simply needs to be properly regulated. How is the cabinet going to make sure that there is actually a step faster here? Mr. Chairman. One of the two serious flaws can be found at the Department of Defense. If there's anything that needs to stand up like a house, it's Defense. The Court has assessed the management of real estate as incomplete for three years in a row. My first question to the Minister is quite simple: does the Minister see that there is much more money to go to the Defence Department, and certainly also to the maintenance and management of the buildings? For three years, the General Court has been pointing to problems with the real estate of the Defense Department. If we do too little maintenance, the costs will only rise, putting even greater pressure on the defence budget. How will the Minister ensure that these serious shortcomings are resolved next year? Does the Minister agree with me that much more insight into the state of Defense real estate is needed, and how will that be picked up? I'd like a response to that. Finally, because my time is running very fast. Not only is a lot of money being spent by the Empire, but the Empire also subsidises a lot of civil society organisations. That too must be taken into account. These organisations, let us also say, are very often doing good work, especially in the case of aid in humanitarian emergencies. They are also a valuable addition to the counterpower that we talk about a lot, because they are organisations that want to influence or change policies. However, the SGP considers it important, especially for organisations that want to change policies, that they are also firmly rooted in society. This can be demonstrated, for example, by the number of members or by the revenue from donations and contributions. This should also be reflected in the percentage of own resources collected by such an organisation itself. Because excessive financial ties with the Empire do not do justice to the function of counterpower that many of these civil society organisations perform. As far as the SGP is concerned, it goes in the wrong direction when civil society organisations that want to change policies are heavily funded by the Empire. This can be direct financing, but also indirect financing, for example through lotteries or subsidies via third parties. I have two questions for the Minister. Does the Minister agree that civil society organisations should also collect a substantial share of their own resources? What does the Minister think of the idea of encouraging private funding, which reduces the dependence on public money? This brings me to the end of my speech, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Heinen and Mr Van Dijk on their maiden speech. I enjoyed that. Moreover, I am concerned that Mr Sneller knows Mr Heinen's son before he knows Mr Heinen. Don't think of it as entrapment, but I'm sure that story will come again. Let me begin with a motion: "The Chamber, having heard the debate, finds that the General Court warns that rules on the accountability of public expenditure and policies are intended not only for the easy moments, but also for times of crisis and crisis; (...) calls on the Government to comply with the Court's opinion by paying attention to the principles of efficiency and legality in the corona measures and to the order of the day." Mr President, I did not ask for permission to table this motion, but I do not, because if colleagues have been paying attention, they know that this motion is from May last year. It was tabled by the DENK Group and adopted unanimously. Sometimes you can see something coming in advance. Of course, you can always realize on 24 December that it is Christmas the next day, but when you know that there is a crisis, you know that there are always people who use it in one form or another to say: we have not applied the rules very well. We find that extremely unacceptable, also because we should have known, given the motion I just referred to. The way it's reported reminds me a little of the gentleman who comes to the GP and says: when I press here it hurts, when I press there it hurts and everywhere I press it hurts. The doctor says, "Maybe your finger is broken." That finger, of course, is the Minister of Finance. He's the one who oversees what other ministries do with the money. That's what he's been appointed to do. We can look at a ministry every time to see what goes wrong there, but we have to deal with Mr. Hoekstra today. He's been appointed chief. He must be very careful on our behalf to ensure that taxpayers' money goes to the right places and that it is spent responsibly. A few weeks ago he himself said that looking back is good to be able to look forward. We need to learn lessons. Looking back is an important part of the parliamentary audit task. We are looking above all at legality and efficiency, through the railways of finance. What has it cost, how has it been tendered, what has it achieved and what has happened to it? Of course, we've had a difficult year. When I think about 2020, I think about corona, about care, about the U.S. Department. I am also thinking of the pain of many Dutch people. But I'm also thinking of the millions that have disappeared from the treasury towards mistress and CDA-prominent Sywert and his accomplices. That's what I'm thinking. I have said it before: when we were sitting in front of corona, we still had the luxury of debating the Brexit and Italy. That's all a bit gone. We're in a real crisis right now. Mr. Chairman. "What is unlawful is unlawful." That's what I started. The same applies in times of crisis. The President of the General Court stressed that. It is sad and disappointing that the threshold of tolerance of legality, both for expenditure and commitments, has been exceeded: EUR 4.3 billion for expenditure and EUR 9 billion for commitments. Minister Hoekstra may start to worry about the ruins of his colleague and predecessor Hugo de Jonge. Predecessor as leader of the CDA. Hugo made the fur. In such a way that the Court of Auditors had to use the most serious means, namely objection. The Court of Auditors has indicated that it is up to the Court to assess this. I'm considering a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u32	It's about the U.S. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u33	Sure, yeah. Mr. Chairman. The General Court recommends that the 160 tax arrangements be adapted or abolished. What will the Cabinet do with these recommendations? How is it that the General Court considers all 14 government regulations that it has examined to be ineffective? Doesn't this give the Minister any serious thought? Mr. Chairman. The Court notes that financial management in the Ministry of VWS was seriously deficient. Colleagues spoke about this. But that's not just about the last year; that's been going on for 20 years. The question that arises is: what are they doing at the Ministry and what are they doing at Finance with the instructions of the General Court? They are always embraced and the question is whether they will be implemented. We can see at VWS that this is EUR 5.1 billion, which is indicated a few times, but when we look at page 68 of the account, there are other numbers. It states that 6.1 billion of the obligations are flawed and uncertainties about legality. For expenditure, this would be 2.1 billion. How do these numbers relate to each other? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Parliament is often informed too late and often put in front of an accomplished fact. That would undermine budget law. We saw that on the first day of recess. It was Friday, December 22nd. I know that we often talked here in the Chamber about a generous arrangement for the parents. We stood here arguing with each other. I still see Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Nijboer and Mr Sneller, and we said: that should be more generous. The parents received €500 per six months. That was the standard rule. That was something like €1.50 a day; that was really nothing. And on Friday afternoon, the Secretary of State reported without consultation: all parents get €30,000. I fell off my chair; a lot of parents, by the way. And we could draw at the cross again. Commitments totalling 0.5 billion were made. We knew we could only debate it two or three weeks later. I think that's really inappropriate. Mr. Chairman. I see I'm halfway through my speech, but I've only got one minute 33 left. And I did have so many beautiful things for you. Let me go a little bit towards the rounding. I would like to speak briefly about what is called 'Sywertgate', because I think I can make a contribution to this. It is insufferable and also somewhat inexplicable that EUR 100 million is spent on mouth caps that have never been used. They're in the corner somewhere. EUR 100 million has been spent on three people who are none successful entrepreneurs; they have a number of bankruptcies in their name. EUR 100 million was spent on three people who had no expertise in healthcare, but were working on ties and business gifts. EUR 100 million was spent on Sywert, who says he wants to help the care heroes who wanted to help the poor. He wanted to divide it among the poor. Afterwards this turned out to be a bit under his left arm and a bit under his right arm. 30 million euros of taxpayers' money has disappeared in the pockets of a money wolf in the form of profits. I find that really disconcerting. I wonder how that's possible. I was also allowed to work at the Ministry myself for a number of years. It's really weird that it goes wrong in so many places. I think it is a good thing that extensive research is being carried out. Is the Minister prepared to get to the bottom of this, if necessary through the General Court? I look forward to colleagues tabling motions on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u35	A fine speech by Mr Azarkan. I don't agree with everything, but there were really good elements in it. I liked the comparison with the finger. If I understand correctly, the bottom line is that Minister Hoekstra is that broken finger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u36	Sure. You understood the metaphor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u37	I kind of lost my way when you said I'm filing a motion of censure against Minister De Jonge. So where's the breakup?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u38	No, the General Court has identified a serious deficiency and used the most serious means. It's up to the Chamber to see how the Chamber wants to deal with that. I am considering tabling a motion of censure on financial policy. That is not so much against Mr De Jonge. I believe that Mr Hoekstra is the ultimate responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u39	So let me get this straight: a motion of censure for the whole policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u41	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the JA21 Group, I would also like to warmly congratulate Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Heinen. When I ran into the Chamber, I didn't know that in a maiden speech you could also express such personal passions and all kinds of life wisdoms. Otherwise, during the debate on gas drilling in Groningen, I would have handled my maiden speech quite differently. It's okay, I hear the Prime Minister now. Thank you. I'll see what I can get. At least they were good stories. I think we're all gonna take some of that. Merci on behalf of our group. Mr. Chairman. It's Wednesday meatloaf, and we're excited. This is our first debate on responsibility and, at the same time, the last of Rutte III. It is remarkable that, after all the debates we have had here about power, counterpower and control, we now have the watchdog, the great counterpower itself, the General Court of Auditors. That is also what the Court of Auditors is doing in the research that we have been able to read, the responsibility over 2020. It is indeed good that there is a public presence again, just when we are talking about the accountability of the policy. I think it is a nice symbolic gesture that this is possible again. We see a year of disaster that is behind us. 2020 was a year of horror. The Minister of Finance quite rightly writes that the pandemic has left deep traces in our society, especially in the areas of the economy and state finances. When you zoom in on the departments, it is quite unheard of to see that such mistakes have been made across the board. I refer to the legality, both of the obligations and of expenditure, and the reliability of these expenditures. We see misfits with LNV, Home Affairs, Economic Affairs, Foreign Affairs, think for a moment about that huge data breach, but also with Defense. And the most painful thing that has already happened is, of course, at the VWS ministry: 5.1 billion in expenditure is not justified. For all departments together, this amounts to 9.1 billion in expenditure that cannot be accounted for. That is indeed far beyond the tolerance limit, as the Court of Auditors so nicely calls it. I think you can speak of a crisis in a crisis. If you see this as a result of the corona crisis spending 9,1 billion without a receipt, then it is even more unheard of to read in the report that only early 2021, namely in May of this year, the Minister of VWS started to work hard to get a grip on that 2020 issue. That's pretty bizarre, isn't it? God bless the grip, the Minister of Finance must have thought. Hasn't there been one VWS accountant who could pull the brake? We understand that there was a crisis and that there was a need to act quickly, but was there no one in that field who said: we are pulling the emergency brake for a moment? How does the Minister of Finance actually reflect on his colleague? On the issue of Sywert van Lienden, my colleague Mr Pouw-Verweij has requested a debate. We are still looking forward to that. Moreover, the Court of Auditors is quite right to say that it is of course easier to look at how things went wrong after a crisis, rather than to assess the risks and consequences of the crisis in time. Everything suddenly had to be done and it had to be done quickly. I therefore think it is appropriate to say that a great deal has also gone well in the past year. That's how fair you have to be. Let's just say: support packages for companies, the maintenance of the KLM, IT management for all government officials who suddenly had to work at home and the information security that has necessarily been raised to a higher level. Those are things that just got picked up right. We must be able to say the same. The most important chapter in the Court's report was Chapter 4. Are we getting our money's worth? Immanuel Kant, I say to Mr Grinwis, who is not in the Chamber now, what can I hope for? I think that was Kant's fourth question. Are we getting value for money? JA21 hasn't thought so for years, but that's why we've been founded. We see a number of serious problems. We see the tax burden that has been increased, in fact twice, through, among other things, an increase in VAT. And what do we get back? Many immigration records, the Prime Minister knows how we look at them, and a country full of wind turbines, where we can no longer be connected to the gas, but must be forced to get rid of them. We see ongoing transfers of money to insatiable southern Europe, including the 43 billion Dutch euros deposited into the EU Emergency Fund. So that's €5,000 per Dutch family, just to translate how much money that is. In short, it is precisely on this Day of Accountability that it is good to consider such irresponsible policies as far as we are concerned. We believe that, at all costs, we must avoid another four years of this kind. That is why I would like to talk to Mr Hoekstra and Mr Rutte, but with your political hat, to see what we can do to adjust this policy. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that the sector in which we are concerned is probably the most dramatic. That's education. Experts say that the damage in education can no longer be made up. Money doesn't make it up to us anymore. Children haven't had tests, children haven't had camp, children haven't had sports, children haven't had social development. When you think about it, it's just really serious. This has been the subject of a whole debate this week, and there is an additional 8.5 billion. But for us at JA21, the simple question is: what are we going to do with that? More IT projects or improvement projects, or consultants or all kinds of desks? Please don't. The most important thing is of course attention in the classroom, as it can be more teachers and masters in training and that the level is screwed up. And most importantly, in a next pandemic, think three times about closing the schools. We'd like to give you that. Now I've heard colleagues argue for more financial supervision, especially at the VWS Ministry. The Court of Auditors itself also wants to monitor closely the implementation of its recommendations in order to avoid repetition. Both things seem very good to us, because as my grandmother used to say: double screwed keeps better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thank you. Mr Eerdmans, there is an interruption by Mr Azarkan. That's his last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u45	Is it my last, Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u47	Well, that's convenient. I often hear my colleague, Mr Eerdmans, talking about immigration records. That's nice and that works well with his supporters, especially now that he has a lot of competition from all those right-wing parties, but it's not true at all. Can Mr Eerdmans indicate how many people immigrated to the Netherlands last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u48	It concerns the non-Western migrants, and that is 800,000 in ten years. There are an average of 80,000 a year. I can tell you by the way that the records in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 were. You can see this in the CBS figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u49	I'm sorry, because I just said it was your last question. But if you're very brief... I can see Mr Heinen watching: what about me? Very briefly, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yeah, sure. I think Mr Eerdmans also knows that the top five of the countries from which immigrants come from the Netherlands are simply Poland, Germany, Romania and Bulgaria. There's about 10% left. Of last year's 200,000, about 10% come from the area he talks about when he talks about immigrants, namely Africa. Will Mr Eerdmans actually say that we should not allow people from Poland, not people from Germany, people from Bulgaria or people from Romania? There are also students. Should we close the borders for those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u51	No, but slowing down seems very good to me, even from those countries, unless there is indeed a proven interest for the Netherlands. That could be labor, and that could be study. That's totally fine, but with control. But as I just said, it's about non-Western migration. So that's 80,000. That's a town the size of "what's it gonna be?" Delft or Eindhoven. Something in that area anyway. It concerns non-western migrants from indeed Africa and the Middle East. That's where they come from. Those are records and have been confirmed by the CBS. You can read all that. We're talking 800,000 in ten years. The inflow is indeed not a net inflow, but a gross inflow. But beware of cheering early at DENK, because what goes away is often not the people who spend ten years here on welfare, I tell you, Mr Azarkan. There's a lot of trouble behind it. We cannot discuss everything about this today; we are going to do so. But this brake on migration is necessary for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Heinen and Mr Van Dijk. It is also nice to know in this Chamber that we are not only standing here, but are connected to the generations before and after us. That's what you showed everyone with your maiden speech. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. As MP of a new party, I try to observe what is happening in The Hague, as well as in this debate. This debate is part of the cycle of budgeting and accountability. After the Court of Auditors has looked at the budget in terms of substance and competence, we as a Chamber can now give our political opinion. Are these steps enough to achieve sound budgetary policies? I don't think so. When the cabinet spends money, it acts politically, and as far as I am concerned, you should only spend money if you attach a clear goal and ambition to each expenditure, if you really want to improve society. In spending and accountability, I miss those clear goals, and that is a shame, because burying and explaining without clear ambitions is a missed opportunity for society. Mr. Chairman. We are talking here about government expenditure and, therefore, expenditure discipline. But where is the income discipline? The Court of Auditors had no less than 116 tax schemes costing 111 billion. For the viewers at home: our national budget for 2020 was just over 300 billion. We give more than a third way to tax discounts. It doesn't have to be explained that that money could have been used much smarter. There is a so-called review framework to assess whether these missed revenues can be justified. The Court says: 'It is a list of seven questions to which the answer must always be a full and well thought-out yes, before the Minister is allowed to apply a tax regime'. Mr. Chairman. Are the tax regimes going through the review framework? The Court of Auditors says that it has assessed four tax regimes and almost always the answer to the seven questions was: no, not applicable or in part. This isn't an exception, it's the rule. 111 billion. In box 2 instead of 200 billion 400 billion, this box is called "the funbox" for a reason. These two amounts are more than the size of the 2020 budget: 311 billion combined. That's not a small beer; that's all breweries full of beer. Then back to the goals that Volt's group really does not see. Is the money we make and the money the government spends on behalf of citizens really being used smartly to improve society? Now that I have had the technical part, let me give you some important examples: our education and our housing market, starting with our education. I quote from the 2007 LeerKracht report by Alexander Rinnooy Kan and others. "The Netherlands is on the verge of a dramatic quantitative shortage of high-quality teachers. This double teacher problem defines the scope of the Teachers Committee set up in 2007 by the Minister of OCW to advise on this fundamental threat to the future of the Netherlands as a knowledge-based economy." So we've known that since 2007. It's 2021 now. At the round table on 26 May last, Merel van Vroonhoven repeated this. Our education in the Netherlands is in a poor sixteenth place of all OECD countries, a quarter of our 15-year-olds are low-literate. The problems of education consist of lack of teachers, a reading crisis and inequality of opportunity. With this we have neglected a great foundation of our society. The whole sector agrees that this educational crisis cannot be resolved by means of occasional money. A rough calculation made it clear that the 8.5 billion issued by the cabinet just before the elections with a lot of bombabre for education through the NPO is just enough to eliminate merely the corona disadvantages. PwC research shows that improving higher education requires a structural additional 1.5 billion, and we haven't even talked about p.o., vo, teachers and much more. Not backwards reasoning, but forward looking. What does our entire education need in order to truly become the future of the Netherlands as a knowledge-based economy? Then the housing market. Completely locked by especially a large shortage of homes. But not only the offer is the cause. IMF, DNB, Europe, our own top economists: they all agree that we need to tackle our housing market. One of the unanimously mentioned aspects is the further reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction. Our young people have been unable to buy a house for a long time and most of them can no longer rent it, but tackling the housing market is being pushed forward endlessly. Why? Purely because there is no political courage to explain this. For how else can it be explained that this is not being done? And then I haven't even mentioned any other necessary interventions that will make the housing market less heated. The own home from box 1 to box 3, so that own property can be taxed like other assets. In addition, charge rent income in box 3, so pawnshops will also pay their taxes, instead of getting dormant and feeling like pawnshops untouchable. There is no shortage of arguments, because by failing to do so, we are leaving 6 billion in Europe. I have not yet discussed other issues, such as digital security, air quality, tackling poverty, prevention in healthcare, reducing capacity inequality, poor asylum policy and so on. It is high time that politics set itself goals instead of this limited way of budgeting and explaining, goals linked to a timetable and a corresponding budget. Mr. Chairman. We need to bury smarter. What do we want to achieve and when do we want to achieve certain things? As a new member of the Chamber, this question is addressed to anyone who wants to achieve goals. This question is addressed specifically to the Minister. How can we incorporate this into the cycle of budgeting and justification? And instead of just spending discipline, can we introduce a revenue discipline? The questions raised by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are therefore about a better budgetary system. Budgeting and accounting without targets does not provide any clear justification for the expenditure incurred. Can the Minister think about a new way of working, in which targets are quantified, with a clear timetable and a clear budget per year to achieve the intended goal? Is the Minister willing to address the mortgage interest deduction and submit that plan in good time, so that the Netherlands can receive 6 billion from the corona recovery fund? I would like to say explicitly that waiting for a new cabinet will increase the chance to miss the last deadline as well. Then the money goes by our noses. Is the Minister prepared to address the many painful aspects of education, of teacher shortages, lack of learning, of place 16 in the OECD, of inequality of opportunity, of ambition and of a realistic budget of 8% of GDP? If this does not happen, the Netherlands will still be the fence of the OECD. And what are we going to do to incorporate the recommendations Building blocks for a better tax system as soon as possible? And my final question: how are we going to introduce income discipline besides expenditure discipline? Otherwise mop with the tap open. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you. I call Mrs Den Haan, from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate Mr Heinen and Mr Van Dijk. And thank you for the beautiful maiden speeches. Mr. Chairman. 2020 is a year we're never gonna forget, a year that's gonna be in the history books. The coronavirus has an indelible impact on our society, both socially and economically and socially. We will continue to feel that impact in the coming years, and we will already have to prepare for that. That is why I do not just want to look back today, but also look forward. The Minister of Finance writes in his preface to the financial report that he is impressed by the resilience of our society and our economy. And he's right. This also deserves a compliment on our society. Because no matter how hard it is for many, we try to make the best of it with each other. It was a difficult time for entrepreneurs, for people in vital sectors, for everyone who lost his job, for people who lost their loved ones and for the many people who felt lonely. But it was also a fierce time for our rulers and all our officials; that may be said at some point. They have worked hard, day and night, to help our country through the crisis as well and as angry as it could. I would therefore like to thank them here for their enormous commitment. I'd like to start with the things that stand out. The economic contraction in the Netherlands is 3.7%. This is a sharp contraction, but compared to other countries, this contraction is not so bad at all. Due to the use of aid packages, the number of bankruptcies has remained historically low and many have been able to keep their jobs. The number of people who do not have a job increases, but remains relatively low. Households and companies have more capital than debts in total. We have a total deficit, including all governments, of 34 billion, but our public debt is below 60% of GDP. But, Mr President, unfortunately, there are also things that have not gone well. For example, for the first time in 12 years the tolerance limit of 1% has been exceeded and we do not yet know anything about expenditure that is not controlled by the General Court because it goes to other governments. We are talking here about 60% of the national spending, which goes, for example, to the WMO, the Participation Act and the Youth Act, which we know goes wrong in all three places in our country, especially in the case of the Youth Act. Secretary of State Blokhuis pays more than 600 million extra for youth care, but how is it monitored that this money goes well and is properly accounted for? Because with only money, you can't solve the fundamental problems. To this end, it is also necessary to lay down substantive frameworks and to justify them. How can we ensure that 60% of public expenditure can also be assessed against national frameworks? We really need to talk about the flaws in the U.S. Department. They are too large, too different, too structural and too unacceptable. In last week's corona debate, the Prime Minister said that this is largely due to the corona crisis. I really understand that in a pandemic like these things happen that are not entirely according to the rules or procedures. But we are talking about many billions of euros here, and it is a matter of the General Court indicating that things have not been in order for years at the VWS ministry. So it's not just about the crisis situation. For example, there have been major shortcomings in grant management at VWS over the last 20 years in 17 years. Financial management is out of order and ICT management is out of order. What struck me very much in the technical briefing of the General Court of Auditors is that the culture in the VWS Ministry is characteristic of the way in which work is carried out and of the problems that arise. How can a department spend 5 billion without knowing the parliament? 1.3 billion of these are not accounted for by receipts and 0.5 billion are not known whether everything that has been ordered has arrived. This really is a mystery to me. Many colleagues have appointed this with me. Then you can still be in such a crisis, as far as I am concerned, the normal procedures and protocols apply, and that is obviously the problem. They are not used on VWS, or they are not, but I honestly do not believe that. I understand that in VWS, the DCA cycle is known. Isn't this one being handled? According to the General Court, an improvement plan has been submitted. The Court recommended that this be implemented quickly. I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance the timetable for this improvement plan and I would ask him to inform the House of Representatives of this. Then, Mr President, I notice that the Ministry of Defense has for years failed to assess the state of real estate management. It's about 11,000 buildings. I read that the Ministry and the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf have done their utmost over the past year to improve their working relationship, so that there will be more insight into the state of maintenance of that property. I would like to know from the Minister whether I have to conclude from this that the unwillingness of the National Real Estate Company to provide the relevant information to the Minister of Defence is. Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, the General Court mentions the culture of failing business management at VWS. A culture is generally very persistent in an organization. We see this not only at VWS, but also at the Tax Office and for example at the Defence and the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. You can set up all kinds of improvement processes, but if you don't tilt the culture first, you build on quicksand. Can the Minister tell me to what extent cultural change paths have been deployed in these ministries? Is there any insight into the culture and how it hinders good cooperation and efficient management? Then I come to the tax arrangements. This has already been addressed today. It is good that they are there, but if the Court of Auditors indicates that the objectives of the schemes are vague, that the justification is inadequate and that the result is unclear, will it not be time to abolish them? The Court's report states that the Minister shares the comments on these arrangements. Would it also be a good idea for the Minister to investigate the usefulness, necessity and, in some cases, the possible abolition of such arrangements? Mr. Chairman. A crisis such as COVID-19 requires a quick and unambiguous approach. If the business is in order at ministries and the organisation is an oiled machine in terms of process and ICT management, then a roadmap for these extreme cases can be used much faster. It has become painfully clear that this is not in order in some ministries. In addition, there was no playbook ready at VWS. That's weird, too, especially since former directors of GGD Netherlands have warned us for years that we are not ready for a pandemic outbreak and a health crisis like the current one. The GGD has been running at alert level for years and in our decentralised state system with different levels of government and different sometimes conflicting decision-making processes, everyone is but ultimately no one is responsible and that is avenged here. Can the directors tell me whether they share this analysis and, if so, what they intend to do about it? Mr. Chairman. We must look forward to the future. As far as I am concerned, we also need to look at whether there is sufficient resilience in the entrepreneurial Netherlands to survive even without the support packages. We need to know how many companies might still fall if the aid packages stop and what we can do about it. Finally, Mr President. The Minister of Finance agrees that state policy must be effective and effective. A strategic evaluation agenda has been launched, and that is a good thing, but does it include a strategic improvement agenda? Apart from the faults that have occasionally arisen from corona and which, as far as I am concerned, can sometimes be understood but cannot be explained, there are structural matters that have been working below the mark for years. I would also like to see improvement agendas, apart from the evaluations that certainly provide insight, with a tight timetable each time. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eight minutes: yes! Mr President, dear citizens of the Netherlands, people in the Chamber, welcome to the heart of democracy. On the day that the CBS announced that the majority of the Netherlands didn't let up, despite all the efforts of the anti-meat lobby to make us believe differently here, it is here proverbial meat-and-bone day a nice coincidence, or Responsible Day. Speaking of accountability, sometimes I let my son do an errand on my behalf. He sometimes brings a bag of chips for himself outside the shopping list. Then he says I wanted to, but I can tell you that I didn't, because I'm more of the cheese cube with a slice of apple on it, a stuffed egg, a piece of dry sausage, a harinette on rye bread or a piece of cucumber and/or a piece of cucumber with goat cheese. Well, then you know what I eat at the drink. Anyway, it's totally fine that he brings that bag of chips, because he always keeps the receipt on the fireplace. When I'm in a good mood, it's almost always like this. I'll pay him back. Mr. Chairman. My son accounts for his expenses better than the Hague ministries, it seems. Of EUR 5.1 billion in Public Health, it is impossible to trace whether it has turned out well. That is €2,914.28 per Dutchman. The average Dutchman who misses that amount in his personal accounts cannot go on holiday that year. When an accountant loses that amount at a company, he loses his job. In fact, this isn't our own money. This is the money of hardworking Dutchmen. They expect, or no, they should be allowed to assume that their government spends it responsibly. This also brings me back to the refusal of the Minister for Justice and Security, Mr Grapperhaus, yesterday during Question Time to give the Chamber an exact overview of the costs of recovering the Syrian gangster, who renounced Dutch democracy and the rule of law with her departure to the IS hell. "I don't," was briefly the Minister's response. Once again, I ask you to share those costs with us here. The citizen is entitled to it. The citizen simply has a right to know what this repatriation, which is mostly a blow to the face of the Jezidi community in and outside the Netherlands, has cost the taxpayer. The arrogance to point to a budget and a budget is completely out of place. Old politics have hardly any feelers in society and do not know what lives and plays. As I said before, the government is there for the citizen and not the other way around. As the Ombudsman said, the citizen deserves better. I would therefore like this evening to have an overview of these costs, which take into account at least the costs of preparing for repatriation, the costs of the return action itself and the costs of the aftermath, such as the costs of detention, of the Public Prosecutor's Office, of reception, of child protection and of the possible reception by youth care. If that does not happen, we will table a motion for this tonight. Mr. Chairman. I have seen that this summer we are moving to a building that looks like a Holland Casino, complete with high-pole carpet in the plenary room. That is not really wheelchair-friendly, by the way. This must not mean that the ministries have been standing on the red with public money for a longer period of time and then waiting to see what happens. We could put the Minister's entire debt on the line, but that's not where it is. It's much deeper. Looks like it's stuck in our board. The button has to be changed. When dealing with public money, ministries have to deal with it as if they were paying it out of their own wallet. We, too, as Chambers, have a responsibility here. We have been appointed by the Dutch to check that the money is spent properly. There must be a clear signal through us that Dutch people will no longer accept this, before that signal is given outside of us. The most important thing is to learn lessons from the past and to look forward. However, reports by the Court show that ministries do not draw sufficient lessons from this opinion. I would like to hear specific measures taken by the Cabinet to ensure that this never happens again. In addition, I would like to call for financial policy to be included as one of the priorities in a parliamentary survey to be carried out on the covid crisis. Mr. Chairman. We run errands here with other people's money. Just turn in your receipts. They may still be in a drawer or on a computer somewhere; that has been shown before. With Ctrl+F you can easily search the computer for the word "invoice" for example. Maybe they'll show up. Common sense doesn't eat bread. The cabinet will probably say that in the stress at the beginning of the covid crisis there was no time to do things exactly according to the rules. However, the question is when the crisis period will end. It is understandable that things did not go exactly according to the procedures in April 2020. But the Court's reports show that health is still not in order. The Court of Auditors has for years warned, in report after report, that several ministries were left behind and that therefore the supervision of finances was inadequate. There has been insufficient action. The Sywert case of Lienden is a gotsp, but Sywertgate is a handy lightning rod. He's only a symbol of what happens in ministries. The problem is much wider than a case of CDA prominent. Mr President, citizens of the Netherlands. The Chamber has a budget right. This means that all expenditure must be approved by the Chamber. There's been a fight for this. This is the basis of our democracy. Under this right, the Minister must always ask the Chamber for permission in the event of expenditure or, in an emergency, inform the Chamber by letter before making an issue. Even this last one didn't happen last year. I have the following questions to the Minister of Finance. What opportunities does an official from another ministry have to warn the Minister of Finance, in a direct and confidential line, that money is being dealt with irresponsiblely? Can the Minister of Finance always specify the costs per Dutchman in correspondence with the Chamber on expenditure of the Empire? This is to take away the abstraction from the figures and costs, to make the costs tangible not only for us as representatives of the people, but for all citizens. Then my questions to the cabinet. Can the cabinet indicate whether there is a state-law instruction in ministries, and whether it discusses in detail the budget law of the Chamber and how it has been established? Finally, how is reports from the Court of Auditors handled in ministries? How are they shared and received, and how are they learned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin, of course, with a heartfelt congratulations to all the colleagues who made their maiden speech today, and to a number of colleagues who did not make their maiden speech today. Mr. Chairman. I've only been standing here for two and a half months at regular intervals. It is only two and a half months that I occasionally chastise behind the office and have the honour to address the Members of Parliament, the cabinet and also the people at home. It's months I've learned a lot. I've learned how a written input works, how you request proper speaking time, and even how the printer works, even though I try to stay away from those printers as much as possible. But I also learned much more important things. For example, I learned that there are two realities: the policy reality of the Binnenhof and the everyday reality of all society. It is unbelievable how big the gap between these two realities is. It surprises me every day. It is easy to sneak in that we are very worried about the margins here, about the patches, about the way the wall is polished. The fact that the poles on which the house is based have always been rotten is hardly the subject of discussion here. It's a kind of cosmetic policy that only rearranges a little bit on the surface. And no matter how you turn or turn it, I cannot convince myself that the Haagse mores reflect the daily and practical reality of people, that The Hague can also see the figures from reports and translate them into living people. Many people are confronted daily with the harsh reality of structural inequalities in this society, as the Monitor Brede Prosperity and the Sustainable Development Goals also show. There are many deep-seated problems here. These structural problems also have structural symptoms. A cabinet that destroys tens of thousands of parents, deprives them of the security of life for generations, pushes them into poverty and unjustly accuses them of fraud from an inherent, institutionally racist system, and then loses 5 billion in the budget itself. According to Minister De Jonge, Prime Minister De Jonge, we must be able to understand that. Mr. Chairman. A cabinet that refuses to provide people with security because they just earn €2 too little or just €2 too little, but makes €8.5 billion available for education without addressing the structural problems, such as the lack of teachers, the burn-out culture and the oversized classes. A cabinet that meets the independent countries and public bodies within our Kingdom, namely Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten, Bonaire, Saba, Statia, from a colonial and paternalist attitude and accuses of corruption and lack of good governance, while here in the European Netherlands we find ourselves in the greatest democratic and constitutional crisis "as to this day." A cabinet that refuses to provide its own Chamber with information and transparency and at the same time closes one after the other shady deal with unknown, unreliable individuals and organisations, who have nothing more in mind than their own gain. I call Sywert van Lienden, Recht-NL, fieldlabs and Stichting Open Nederland. A cabinet that makes itself responsible for Russian roulette that municipalities play with their racist agents by not firing them, but simply placing them elsewhere. A cabinet that has cut back on the arts and culture sector, because it would not translate into a profit model. A cabinet which, under the leadership of this outgoing Prime Minister, has not only created the housing crisis but is still maintaining it and which deprives society of the right to live by refusing to collect taxes on the profits of large multinationals and not to see that living is a fundamental right. Where one hears that money doesn't grow on trees, shareholders and their big companies get free money. Profit tax has been reduced in recent years. And then there is the climate crisis, a crisis in the ggz and you still think about the capabilities of the top-level society in this society. In this crisis, the rich have been given a free ticket to even more wealth. It is still bothering me, therefore, and I referred earlier today to the fact that we have not been able to have that discussion in this Chamber, at least in my time, because the coalition parties have blocked that debate. But once again, Mr President, these crises are just the symptoms of deep rooted problems. The supplement scandal is a symptom, the symptom of institutional racism, the symptom of a long colonial history that still manifests itself every day and in every aspect of our society. Accountability means that racism is not only addressed in a committee debate or in a transitory letter of Parliament, but is opposed to an integral structural and holistic approach. Growing capacity inequality, the climate crisis, a lack of security of existence; they are symptoms. It's the symptom of the current economy. An economic climate that exploits and unfairly rewards people working in dictatorial terms under the guise of the free market. Accountability then means democratizing that economy by restoring control over and revenue from work in the hands of working people. The big question of the last two and a half months in this house is: what does accountability really mean and to whom should the cabinet actually answer? I feel strongly about what is and should be responsible, and I hope that we all realize by now that this responsibility should not be made to me or my 149 roommates, but to the 17 million inhabitants of this country who feel the reality behind the dramatic figures we are discussing here today. The best way to be accountable is to guarantee that things will be really different from now on. In my view, I have shared with the Chamber how I see that this change can take place quite clearly. We will have to realise that we need to change not only the consequences but also the foundations of our society, that we no longer see politics as a housekeeping book, that we can add a little bit here and we can love it and say: yes, sorry, it has gone that way, and it has gone that way. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Nee, we moeten zo goed en zo kwaad als het gaat proberen het gebroken huis pleister voor pleister bij elkaar te houden.]] But that's not the way. The best way to answer is to break down the rotting poles on which the house is built and then to rebuild. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u60	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group. It's his maiden speech today, too. I propose that at the end we congratulate Mr Ephraim and then suspend for 45 minutes. I call Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is my honor to make my maiden speech in this sacred hall of democracy. But before I begin, as a member of parliament, I would first like to express my deep appreciation and thanks for the daily support and assistance given by all the officials and staff of the Chamber, who carry out their duties in a very professional and independent manner. Mr. Chairman. There is a ghost in Europe: the ghost of federalism. All the powers of ancient Europe have committed themselves to the sanctification of this ghost. In 1992 the Maastricht Treaty decided on the introduction of the euro. The economic basis for a political union was laid. Although the euro area countries did not formally guarantee each other's sovereign debt, the "no bailout clause," the financial markets implied this, so that South European interest rates went spectacularly towards those of economically stronger Nordic countries. In this way, the large southern European sovereign debt remained affordable. The euro crisis then offered a good opportunity to reduce national sovereignty. In the years 2008-2012, the euro had to be saved, otherwise the economy would collapse, right? After all, we make our money with exports, with Europe. Yes, but free trade does not require a single currency at all. A free trade area, a currency union and a banking union are different things. In any case, the interest rate kept artificially low by the European Central Bank, the ECB, is otherwise the debts of Italy and Greece in particular are no longer to be paid out; bad news for Dutch savers and for our pensions. The financial repression will deprive many Dutch people of a well-kept old age. With a currency of our own, we could devalue it in the face of economic problems, so that exports and the economy are stimulated. A single currency such as the euro cannot do that, which can only bring about austerity of the social system, higher taxes, lower expenditure and a reduction in wages. And that is socially and politically unsellable in many countries, so the bill is placed as a poisonous cuckoo egg with the other countries that have adapted their economies in time, such as the Netherlands. But why should we pay for failing governments in southern Europe? Or is it perhaps possible that the strong northern economies now have such a huge advance on the southern countries that, if they cannot fulfil their obligations, there will be a problem for those northern countries themselves? However, we never hear the politicians from northern countries about this. Mr. Chairman. I recently read the pronunciation "You will own nothing, and you will be happy." I would like to add on the subject of southern European countries: start paying back your debts; You will owe nothing, and I will be happy. I therefore wholeheartedly endorse Question No 8 of the List of Questions, document 35830, No. 1: "How much is the exposure of the Netherlands to the policies of the European Central Bank (ECB)? Can you name a total amount?'. We must not forget that, through TARGET, the various central banks are also responsible for the settlement of this problem between Northern and Southern Europe. And let us not forget the risks of the buy-back programmes APP and PEPP of 800 billion. And, yes, the MFK is one of them. My compliments to Mr Sneller van D66, who, as chairman of the Committee on National Expenditure, has edited the questionnaire. That was very good work. I hope to be able to make more contributions next time. Of course, I understand that I act silly as a politician by complimenting an opponent. Of course, I should call him rotten fish, because otherwise I will never become a "political brand" and I will never be asked for programs like Op1, Buitenhof, Jinek, Beau, Ranking The Stars of Temptation Island. After all, there must be resurrection, fireworks, fuss! In short, tension and sensation, the generic fuel of today's media. That is why many politicians are increasingly expressing their "disturbation," "emotion," "bewilderment," and they like to take the measure of others. However, we would once again be very naive, Mr President, I know with problems if, for example, cultural change could help each other with the Tax Office. After all, we will never agree in the Chamber on how much tax is levied and how these funds should be used, but an efficient, non-discriminatory and decent tax administration is in all our interests. After all, there are only two certainties in life: "you will die" and "you will pay taxes." As far as I am concerned, these two need not necessarily be combined, and the inheritance tax should be abolished as soon as possible. A person already pays income tax, sales tax, dividend tax, tourist tax, dog tax, excise duty, and enough is enough. The end of earthly existence must also mean the end of taxes. I know that the ancient Greeks did an obol in the mouth of the deceased to pay the ferryman Charon for the trip over the Styx - but he didn't charge any VAT. Perhaps in the various political parties there are politicians who have had to deal with cultural changes in a previous life, including mergers, who can assist the rulers, without having any short-term political gain in mind. In this respect, I offer to volunteer. I've been through a lot of mergers and cultural changes. By the way, in one merger, I got rid of my own job. I wouldn't recommend that to the younger guard. Mr. Chairman. A currency union is unworkable without political integration, but so the European project, and especially the euro, has never been sold to us. It was good for SMEs. There was no price risk and it was convenient on vacation. The euro is a means, not an end. We are slowly but surely getting into a federal Europe. That's a real shame. Then we lose our sovereignty and identity. But if the European debt becomes collective through Eurobonds, where all the countries themselves guarantee each other's debts, I see good opportunities for the Netherlands. Then we can increase pensions, start employment projects and pay out a tsunami of various subsidies. After all, our debts then belong to the whole of Europe. It would be incredibly silly to fill the trough with euros without getting as much out of it as possible, or as the Netherlands to introduce cuts under the 3%-60% Pact. Unfortunately, other countries feel the same way. Then the euro will implode itself, but anyone who knows it can say it. A federal Europe can only be achieved with an unlimited transfer of sovereignty. But the people, the Dutch, still owning that sovereignty, were never asked anything. It is high time that this was done in the form of a referendum. If, for example, Europe wants to increase its military capacity, the individual countries will only have to increase their defence expenditure to the agreed 2% of NATO. That does not require a European army. A federal Europe would be a great empire, with 740 million inhabitants. In history, there have often been large multicultural empires. Think of the Roman Empire, the Habsburg Empire, the Ottoman Empire, the Empire, the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia. They usually fall apart over time, after bloody conflicts and civil wars, because the binding factors of a people, language, culture and a common history are missing. People prefer to live in a recognizable nation state. Citizens of the Netherlands, join us! Reclaim your sovereignty and your democratic voice. Refuse to accept that behind your back the issues most specific to free citizens, namely your freedom, sovereignty, self-deserving prosperity, national identity and democratic influence, are being squandered and stolen. Ask for referenda. Stand in front of your nation state. Jump over the shadow of Eurobangmaking. For yourself, for the future of your children and grandchildren, for the Netherlands. Dixit Olaf Ephraim. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ephraim. Congratulations, too, on your lovely maiden speech. I think we should get to know you through the content, but that's all right here. I would suggest that we congratulate Mr Ephraim and suspend him until 5 p.m. The cabinet has indicated that they need about 45 minutes to answer the questions. I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. I'd also like to ask you to observe the 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u63	The next item is the continuation of the debate on accountability for the year 2020, the first term of office. I would like to welcome Members of Parliament again, as well as the directors and the visitors who are there. Glad you could make it. We are allowed to receive visitors again from Wednesday and that is very nice. It's got to be vivid. We see what nice weather it is outside; this can be read from the shorts. In this way we also keep in touch with the outside world. I give the floor to the outgoing Prime Minister for his first term. I would ask the directors to focus as much as possible on the questions asked and a little less on the long introductions. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr President, first the administration. Then I come to a few introductory remarks on the maiden speeches. A few notable moments in the first term of the Chamber require a reflection of the government before we get to the specific questions. Now, let's start with the administration. I have the honour to answer questions in the area of VWS on corona policy and the two financial issues in the debate: the mouth caps and the issue of the 5 billion. I will also answer the questions about Defense. Then the Minister of Finance will answer the other VWS questions that directly affect the Compatibility Act, the questions about the Ministry to which he himself directs and questions about EZK, Infrastructure, Rijkswaterstaat, LNV, OCW, SZW and the Monitor Brede Welvaart. The Secretary of State for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations will talk about the state-wide operations and Defence/Real estate. That's about the division of roles. We also warmly welcome, congratulate and also congratulate Mr Heinen, Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Ephraim for their maiden speeches, which indeed contain all three very personal elements. They also showed what drives them. I noticed a pleasant agreement in terms of objectives between CDA and VVD, but of course I do not say that as Prime Minister. For those who think "how can the birth of the young reapers be more known to some than Mr Heinen himself?': That has to do with the publicity that got the birth. Mr Heinen will have to explain this once more. Congratulations again to all three. We very much look forward to working together. It was a special first term anyway, because apart from all the concrete major issues that were on the agenda, so hears that De' Medici passed by and Emmanuel Kant, the latter in the contributions of the Christian Union and JA21. Mr Eerdmans tried to take one of the four questions asked by Kant out of his head. I don't think it was entirely correct, but he made an effort, and I appreciate it. It is interesting because we see a link with this debate. When we talk about De' Medici, I immediately think of Leo X, the Pope who came from this family. The question is whether he fully respected all the preconditions for a pope, but he was also a man who was trying to find the balance sheet. In this crisis, we are also trying to find that between spending on the more intangible, such as culture, innovation and science, and the secular governance that needs to be properly shaped. That went completely wrong with Leo X, as we all know. We owe it to the most beautiful remains in Rome. Ramsey Nasr once said that art has no purpose in itself, but is a goal within itself and does not need to have any further social benefit. I very much agree with him. Nevertheless, a certain balance is attractive. If you see how much Leo X has spent on the Saint Peter and the punching of Raphael and you compare that with the financial management in the papal reign of that time, they almost went bankrupt. Whatever forced him to do so, I come to the Christian Union and other parties here who are more confessionally orienting themselves, the need to eventually increase the indulgences, which allowed Luther to emerge and eventually the entire Reformation was stimulated by him. This shows once again how important the financial balance is and that culture must always be mentioned and have enough money. But, of course, everything in a reasonable balance, he spoke harshly. Then we had Immanuel Kant. That is closely linked to this. I found the argument that was held on that very nice to listen to, because of his views about transcending the sensory world and thus moving on to the moral higher. Yes, I say to Mr Grinwis, I am referring to your comments on Kant. I was surprised that you brought it up, but then I thought: it makes sense that you bring up Kant, this greatest thinker of the Enlightenment. It was from that higher moral that he came to a certain God-consciousness. That makes sense in the Christian Union and that makes it all right again. Mr President, I did not want to leave those points aside, because they all have to do with today. I have heard a great deal of understanding for the fact that, in a crisis, financial management may suffer for a very short time, but certainly not for too long. That must be corrected. We're gonna have a big talk about it later. There are also a few absolute values and solidities that we cannot let go of. Having said that, I would like to say something about my own department and something about the fight against pandemics, and then deal with the questions about VWS and about Defense and then the other questions. First about AZ. There the question was whether the pandemic was necessary to make people work at home and whether General Affairs would be in trouble with the initiative law. I do not anticipate the cabinet judgment on the initiative proposal. That will be on the Council of Ministers sometime in the next week, and I believe that the treatment will also be available here in the coming weeks. I can tell you that the pandemic was certainly not necessary for people to work at home at General Affairs. That's what happened before. There are also provisions for this. But fair is fair: as with so many organisations, so is the Ministry of General Affairs, which has caused the crisis to accelerate and increase the share of homework and a substantial expansion of facilities. In that sense, that small department of AZ, once created from the large department of the Interior, some 80 years ago, as an independent ministry in support of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister, is also, in its smallness, an example of so many organizations involved in working at home. This applies, of course, in particular to services such as Public and Communication, the Management Board and the Financial and Economic Affairs Directorate, but also to the WRR. Also there you can see that working at home is the norm from the beginning of the pandemic. Let me now turn to the more general questions about the fight against pandemics. There was a rather exciting question, may I put it that way? Mr Van Dijck. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van He said: what would the cabinet have done differently with the knowledge of today in 2020? I agree with him on this point, which applies to the entire Accountability debate.... that we must learn from 2020 and learn lessons for the future. The investigation is under way. The O.V.V. is working on that. Of course, the cabinet has initial ideas about this. Last summer, at the initiative of Lodewijk Asscher, as group chairman of the Labour Party, we gave ourselves the first lessons we could draw after the first wave of 2020. At least we have shared the lessons learned with the Chamber. We have also asked external experts, including from GGD's and municipalities. I would like to mention a few key points: the importance of large-scale testing of such a virus, which was not possible at the outset, and the use of the most targeted measures, and the maintenance of an iron supply of protective equipment, in order to absorb a second wave, which unfortunately, as you know, has come. We shared these practical lessons with the Chamber. Hugo de Jonge, Ferd Grapperhaus and I, the ministers of VWS, JenV and I, had another meeting with the Security Council this week, at least with a delegation of them. I think one of the most important lessons was the thought that you can't actually work regionally in a small country like the Netherlands. You cannot say regionally: in one region the cafés are closed and in the other they remain open. You saw around September last year that we scaled up too late in the gravity of the measures. We've shared that with each other before. That also had an effect on communication. I believe that there are specific lessons to be learned from this period, from the end of August to the beginning of October. That is also what we have done in the various corona debates. I wanted to share this as the first reflection with Mr Van Dijck and thus with the Chamber. The roadmap was then adapted and we have incorporated the learning points into the plan that is now evolving. Mr Alkaya's question follows on from that. It's intimately connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u65	Before you do that, Mr Eerdmans of JA21 has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u66	Let me ask you a question about what you said about working at home. What is the government's official advice now? Do office workers still have to work at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u67	That's still the advice. The current advice is: work at home as much as possible. We're about to get step four scheduled for June 30th. That's not for sure, but hopefully we can do it on June 30th. It's a pencil planning, if the numbers keep moving in the right direction. That's step 4, or actually the merged steps 4 and 5. Then we also have to look again at the homework advice. And we will, of course, talk about the general rules later. Washing hands seems good if we all keep doing that. The testing of complaints will also have to remain part of the palette, I think. But, of course, there's going to be a discussion about the mouth cap. There's going to be a discussion about how we handle the 1.5 meters. Either in the context of this, the homework advice comes back, or it will come back on 30 June. In addition, there was Mr Alkaya's question as to what steps VWS is going to take to make the ministry pandemic proof and what was learned from the crisis. I told you we talked about it last summer. That also works towards the future, because we must, of course, prepare ourselves. Not that exactly this crisis is returning, but this crisis is not yet gone. We will have to see in the autumn whether the vaccine also protects against new variants, whether it is sufficiently resistant and whether there should be an annual vaccination programme. All these questions we have to answer together for the next few months. In addition, in a more general sense, the question is how to ensure that healthcare is more ready and able to scale up faster. Not by mothballed hospitals, as has already been suggested once, but by quickly scaling up flexible ic capacity and looking at the ideas that have come from PVV, SP and others about a national healthcare reserve, as I will just mention. So the question is whether you can quickly involve people in care if you need to. All these things are getting worked out now. When you talk about evaluation, it's not just about what we've done wrong with each other, it's about what we can learn from it for the future. That'll come back. Mr. Chairman. That's just as an introduction to two specific issues that are in my part of the answer to VWS. The first is, of course, the question about the shortage of materials. Among other things, we were asked when we heard about these deficits. The problem is that care is not a problem, but it is a specific issue that arose last year, which is responsible for everything itself and is organized on a decentralised basis. So we had to quickly switch the hospital capacity nationwide in the National Coordination Centre Patients Spread. This was necessary shortly after the measures were scaled up. In addition, there was, of course, the issue of the shortage of materials in care. The care institutions themselves are responsible for purchasing pbm, personal protective equipment, and the corona crisis has caused a total unmanageable demand for these protective equipment in a short period of time. The whole world was hunting for it, causing the supply to stop. In March, shortages of personal protective equipment threatened to occur. As a result, VWS started purchasing on 9 March. On 18 March, in consultation with the sector, it was decided to organise the procurement centrally. The then Minister for Medical Care and Sport established the LCH on 23 March. More specifically on the Van Lienden issue. I would like to say that the Minister for Medical Care has announced an external investigation. You know that, some of you have also named it. This research focuses both on the agreement with RGA and on the purchase of protective equipment during the corona crisis, which choices were made in it and why. Maybe I can answer those few questions right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u68	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u69	It takes everyone's role and responsibility into account. With regard to whether or not to intervene, I can say that the focus was of course different at the time. Due to the global outbreak of the corona pandemic, acute problems arose with the delivery of personal protective equipment, while demand was enormous. The aim of VWS was to get the care to the Netherlands as quickly and as much stuff as possible, of good quality and price and within a market-based bandwidth, which was determined by experts. It had to be in such numbers that we really wouldn't get any more deficits. But once again, all these specific questions will come along with that. The same applies to Mr Sneller's question about the three contracts over 100 million and the other choices that have been made. The Chamber is informed in a subsequent letter by the Minister for Medical Care about the final investigation plan, the timetable and the party that will carry out the investigation. Then there is the question about the fact that General Affairs received a letter from Auxiliary Forces on 5 May through an app. AZ got a lot of stuff. We always go straight to VWS, because we didn't have a role in that. That's what happened back then. That signal's been relayed. That's where AZ's involvement ended with this particular point. That was on 5 May, so at least after the month of April. Again, this is where research is going to take place. That brings me to the questions about the 5 billion. These were the answers to the questions at this stage about personal protective equipment and that one specific offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u70	Thank you. Everyone has the possibility of a total of six questions, or six moments. Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u71	In what way and when was the Prime Minister himself informed about the transaction with Mr Van Lienden?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u72	That's what the investigation will have to prove. AZ was not kept so detailed. As I just said, we can now find out that on May 5 that offer was made through an app and a letter from Van Lienden. That signal went through to VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u73	An app to whose phone number?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u74	That was an app to an AZ official.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u75	Another question. Can the agreements above 100 million be made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u76	I want to suggest that we ask all these questions... I really can't see that now. There is also a separate WG with VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u77	A WHO, a legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u78	There will be another comprehensive letter from Van Ark on the elaboration of the research. I suggest we get this involved. I really can't see what that's like legally. I don't have that ready here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u79	It sounded like a request, but I would like to put it a little more firmly. I would like to have that, because on that basis I can see exactly what is in it and what you can do about it as a Chamber. In the supplementing affair, we have put the lawyer at €600 per hour for people who had very little and who barely had a defense. I think we should also set up a legal expert on this. I'd like that. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister if he can release those documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u80	I don't have any documents I can release anyway. That's what VWS should do. I would suggest that I pass this part of your request on to the Minister for Medical Care and that she respond to it if she could continue the work of the investigation to the Chamber. I can't see if that's legal. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u81	Legislative consultation will take place on 23 June. The Prime Minister therefore also directs this question to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u82	Yeah, let's do that. If this official is passed on, that question can be answered there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mr Van Dijck of the PVV and then Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u84	The Prime Minister is now hiding behind the fact that there is an investigation, and that he does not know it legally. He's the great man behind this cabinet. How does he feel about $100 million being spent on 40 million mouth caps? First of all, this is too expensive for €1 per mouth cap. Yesterday we heard from Nieuwsuur that other parties could buy such a mouth cover for €1 less. How do you feel about 100 million dollars in tax money being pumped away, that those mouth caps are still in a shed, that they're not right, and that the consortium said we don't like those mouth caps and we don't want them? The party from which they were bought had no experience at all. That was just an official at the municipality of Amsterdam. What do you think of that? As Prime Minister, you have something to say about that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u85	I find and think all kinds of things, but I'm gonna hold back. I think it is right to get the facts straight. A study is now being carried out for this purpose. I can shoot out of the hip here and Mr Van Dijck and I can outdo each other in indignation. That's very easy. I believe that we all feel a basic indignation about a number of elements in this matter. But I'm not gonna do that, because I want to know the facts first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u86	I think the facts are well known. Every day the talk shows are full of people who were close, both from the consortium, as yesterday, and from nursing homes. My question is: is that investigation just about Van Lienden and VWS? Or is it also about what else Lienden has done? Apparently, we understood that yesterday, it also delivered directly to nursing homes. So maybe that piece of VWS, that 100 million, is just the tip of the iceberg and that guy doesn't have 9 million in his bank account, but a multiple of it. In other words, does this go beyond VWS and Van Lienden? Is there also a broad view of nursing homes and other agencies that were shopping directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u87	The research focuses both on the agreement with RGA, and on the purchase of pbm, personal protective equipment, during the corona crisis. What choices have been made and why? So that's wider. The aim is to include in the research a kind of hotline where investigative journalists can go if they discover new things, or people have to report things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u88	Nurses are part of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yeah, but nursing homes work on a decentralised basis. This part will be followed by VWS. Well, I guess it'll have to come back to that WHO. But I don't know if VWS is about the nursing homes. I don't really think so, but I suspect, if we look at the purchase of pbm in broad terms, that this will be taken directly or indirectly. Whether it is direct will have to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u90	Just as I quoted Booking.com as a media-genic example of a company with antisocial top executives, Mr Van Lienden has actually become a media-genic example of something much larger, namely the lack of accounting in the Ministry of Health. Such media-genic examples must not, of course, be at the expense of the fundamental debate. In my view, the Prime Minister has just said something more fundamental, namely that the central role of the Ministry of Health should be something permanent, which has proved useful in the pandemic and that we should perhaps retain it. But we've had different times, haven't we? We have known for a long time that hospitals went bankrupt and that the rulers here told us: that is not up to us, that is to the market. Can we see that the Prime Minister has actually changed his mind in the corona pandemic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u91	I am afraid that I am now walking into a trap, which is set very clearly, now that it is linked to the wider healthcare arrangements. Mr Heinen spoke of a strong government in his contribution. As far as I am concerned, that is not a large government, but a strong government, I say to Mr Alkaya. It has to be said that if we are able to quickly switch between all the players in such a large care sector, we have managed to set up structures very quickly with the help of the Defense Department and other agencies, Hugo de Jonge has been working on this day and night from mid-March onwards, both with the National Centre for Aids and with the patient distribution in a decentralised structure still a great deal to achieve. But the discussion should be: what do you want to keep from that? As far as I am concerned, this has nothing to do with the relationship between state and market. I do not think that is the case. But you have to see what you want to keep from that. What's good about that and how can you, when things happen that suddenly overload the care in a part of the country, like in Brabant in the middle of March last year, activate such a structure that might already be underlying? That you can act right away and that you don't have to think about it on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u92	I agree with the Prime Minister that this discussion should take place. But where and when will this discussion take place? The Prime Minister is, of course, not someone who is neutral in that discussion. He may be the most influential person in the country when it comes to that discussion. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: where and when will this debate take place and when will the Chamber be informed? I am also curious about his personal opinion on the content of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u93	I'm not going to anticipate that. I think we will have to look at this very carefully in the coming weeks. The OVV is in the process of an evaluation. There are other evaluations coming up. There is no doubt that the Chamber will look at things itself. So I really think we should learn the lessons from that. For this particular crisis, I think we really have structures now. So if the number of infections were to increase again this autumn, we now have no clue, but if it happens anyway, then we can quickly activate the existing structures. But what you want, of course, is precisely the question that Mr Alkaya and others have asked. That's what you really want. But I can't place that exactly in time, because I don't know exactly when all these investigations are ready. I didn't prepare that, so I should check it out. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of commitments and expenditure at VWS. As you know, the Empire has a cash and liability system. In addition, when an agreement is entered into, an obligation is entered into the administration, after which the expenditure follows. In 2020, of course, more commitments were made for the management of corona, which will not be spent until 2021. For example, large contracts were concluded for vaccines in the summer of 2020 and commitments were entered into, whereas those payments only take place in 2021. The Court found that 6.1 billion in commitments were wrong or uncertain, of which 5.4 billion were corona-related. On the expenditure side, in 2020 there will be 5.1 billion corana-related expenditure. Of this, the Court of Auditors' accountability studies found 2.1 billion to be uncertain or wrong. If I break that down, then the 2.1 billion that about 1 billion has not been informed to the First Chamber in time and that the House of Representatives has not been informed in time about Mediq. So that has just to do with not informing each other in time. Specifically for Mediq, the agreement was concluded on 23 March and the Spring Note was sent to the House of Representatives on 29 April. Advances have already been made in that month. That's got the explanation for about 950 million. Then there is 560 million for which no bank guarantee has been requested. Eventually we'll get to 590 million which you have to look at very specifically. You have to take this seriously, because of which the performance can't be exactly pictured. These include testing policies, mouth caps, ventilation equipment and payments to the GGD GHOR. That doesn't mean those goods weren't delivered. After all, the warehouses are full, so those goods have been delivered. Only if you look at the very precise accounting standards will it not be possible at this time to prove exactly where the goods are. That's a lot of money you can't give 100% certainty about right now because it's not properly registered. That is why the General Court does not approve the 590 million. Of course, you also want to inform the First Chamber on time. Once again, a large part of the budget irregularities stem from the fact that the First Chamber has not been copied. The letter only went to the Lower House, while according to the Compatibility Act it should have been sent to the Upper Chamber. What do we do now? There's a whole program set up by VWS. Your Chamber also received the program plan on Accountability Day. It includes an analysis of what has happened and a plan of action. The First Chamber, which was the easiest, now receives the letter about corona. That was one extra stamp, so that's easy to earn. Both chambers have been informed accordingly. The results agreements are reviewed, checking whether they are adequate and whether they contain the right accountability arrangements. There is also a validation of coronIT, the ICT system at the GGD GHOR. That example was also cited by the General Court in its report, as VWS could not demonstrate that the tests purchased were actually in line with the invoices declared to VWS. Then there was a specific question from the Christian Union or the VVD. Is there currently an audit of stocks at the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries and a stock records for ICT equipment being set up? The nursing homes, nursing homes and home care organizations, the so-called vvt sector, which use lent oxygen concentrates, will be called after the summer with the question of whether continuing the use of these oxygen concentrates is still desirable and necessary. In addition, VWS lets an external party review the program plan to see if all the necessary measures are in the picture and if they are being arrested. This party will also provide advice on what is needed in the VWS organisation to ensure structural financial management. It also looks at the specific cultural aspect. So, yeah, it didn't all go well, but it's not about 5 billion. At the core, we are talking about an amount of nearly 600 million. It's not like the 600 million was spent; the warehouses are full. A whole range of measures are now being taken to zoom in on this and to get a precise picture of the situation. If there's any more questions about that, I'm sure I'm out of ammo. Then I suggest that this should continue with the WHO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u94	We're gonna see. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u95	That would be pretty easy. The Prime Minister does not give answers and says: if you have questions, you must be elsewhere. That's what we're here for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u96	I could have tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u97	I think it's a little nonchalant what the Prime Minister's doing here. He says the 5.1 billion doesn't add up. Well, the Court of Auditors can count better than the Prime Minister. It simply said that 5.1 billion is unlawful. Of course it is made up of different parts. Part of it is wrong or late to inform the Chamber, but that also matters. Take, for example, the childcare allowance, which is €30,000 to parents, about €0.5 billion. Why is that relevant? Not because we have to get that paper in time. The point is that these parents will know that they will receive €30,000, while there may be ideas in the Chamber that this group will not be properly served. Omzigt already said: if you have missed €80, you also get €30,000. That may not be reasonable. You take that opportunity away from the Chamber, the co-legislator. I do not think that the Prime Minister is sufficiently serious about the Court of Auditors' harsh criticism. Does he really take it seriously? Did something seriously go wrong or didn't a few things go well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u98	No, no, I take that absolutely seriously. That's why the whole program is there. But I'd like to get to the facts. As far as expenditure is concerned, the ARK says: error uncertainties corona-related to expenditure are 2.1 billion. The error uncertainties on the liabilities are 6.1 billion, of which 5.4 billion are corona-related. Of this, 4 billion comes due to late information from the Upper House. That's a mistake. That's just a mistake. But it's one extra stamp, sending a copy, so it's not like it wasn't known in the public domain. 1.3 billion has to do with the justification for the urgent need to skip procurement procedures. I believe that the debate, including in the media, focuses mainly on expenditure, not on commitments. If you peel that off, and I take it very seriously, because 600 million is not 5 billion, but a lot of money is going to be spent, and it is important to note that it is not that the money has not been spent. But I fully agree with Mr Nijboer that you must, of course, map that further. So I take that very seriously. If I gave the impression that I didn't take that seriously, the opposite would be the case. We take that very seriously. That's exactly what we need to map out. It is also not good that not all of this was done at the time. I understand, I'm telling you the truth. I remember those months of March, April and May very well. There was screaming panic in everything and everyone. We thought there might be a peak of 4,000 people on the ICU. Eventually it became 1,500, but there were also calculations that it could have been 4,000. If that had happened, and we're gonna move on to the hospitals and nursing homes, you'd really need those millions of mouth caps extra. We'd have needed extra ventilators. We called the whole world off for that stuff. So now we are going to try to justify that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u99	I said in my first term that I fully understand that things go wrong in the corona crisis and that public health really takes precedence over all receipts and so on. But in recent years legitimate expenditure has been under increasing pressure. Over the past four years, it's been getting worse and worse. Now it's gotten a lot worse. This applies both to commitments and expenditure. It also applies to imperfections, problems at the Ministry, at the Department of Defense, at the Tax Office. They've also increased from 35 to 50 in the last four years. So it's going to go wrong across the board. The Court of Auditors cannot be tougher than hard, because it was already hard last year and has now said: we are even making a formal objection, because that is no longer possible; I am drawing a line. I think the Prime Minister is trying to make it a little small in his reply. He says a stamp to the First Chamber. I don't think the departments are thinking right now: we have to get to work, because next year it's gonna go to hell. I want to see fewer imperfections and illegality figures here next year that meet the standard and a little bit of action. I don't see it happening like that, because I see it being talked small: we do a stamp and then it's solved easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u100	It's both true. It's part a stamp. That'll be informing the First Chamber. In cases where it did not go well, it amounts to 950 million. In it, the House of Representatives was informed too late, which only happened with the Spring Note and was supposed to do so already in March, or was the First Chamber not informed at all or not informed in good time. That's almost $1 billion. That's the stamp. It's not like money was thrown away there and it wasn't spent. That doesn't make it small, but I'm trying to zoom in on where you seriously have a point. In my view, that is the almost EUR 600 million one-off expenditure. That's still a lot of money you can run a lot of hospitals for a long time. Of these, I just outline which programmes are running to map that exactly. So I fully agree with that. I would like to say nothing about the wider issues of compatibility with the public authorities and other departments and how many comments the Court of Auditors makes. That's what Hoekstra's gonna talk about right away. We all take that seriously. There's no doubt we're not, but I'm trying to cook it back to the essence here. It's 600 million and not 5 billion. That's a fact, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u101	It is a fact that 5.1 billion of VWS have been illegally spent, 9 billion in total. Our independent referee, the Court of Auditors, has established that. In my contribution, I have pointed out that in my opinion the problem is that with all the examples mentioned by the Court of Auditors... The childcare allowance says that the Chamber should have sent a note, then it would have been resolved. It is also said that there are only three more than last year when it was such a crisis. That's not gonna fix it. There's a lot of stuff underneath. At DOD, it's a mess. Security and the Justice Department have concerns. With the Tax Administration, ICT is still far from being in order. They sold mouth caps to Sywert van Lienden, leaving almost 28 million in taxpayers' money. What else is gonna come after? Those points are serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u102	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u103	It really requires a serious approach from the cabinet and it requires action to do something about it. It should not be said in every question that is asked: yes, it is not all that bad and it is running loose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u104	I didn't say that. I don't know where you get that either. Here is the first law of Sophie Hermans: we take the problems one by one, we take the problems seriously and we solve them. If you take the trouble one by one, you have to see what the problem is. In my view, the serious problem is this: what is at the heart of the expenditure of 2.1 billion, where, according to the General Court, errors have been made or uncertainties are present? That's not 2.1 billion. A very large part of it is simply good and quick to solve with stamps. But there is also a serious problem. I'm not gonna make that any smaller. That nearly 600 million is still a huge amount. If the Court of Auditors had zoomed in on the 600 million, we would have had such a serious debate. In the 600 million there are the issues I just mentioned. There's a whole program going on. It's just gonna have to be okay. The culture side of VWS is also at gunpoint. Mr Nijboer is right to say that there are many other issues relating to public finances and accountability. We take them very seriously, too. We shall look into that in a moment. In a moment, I'm gonna go into the DOD myself. He's just right that things should be better there too. I certainly don't play games with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u105	First Mr Snels van GroenLinks and then Mr Snelter van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u106	I think it's right that the Chamber should stand up here for a moment. It is also right that I should like to inform the Prime Minister that we are making a distinction between the various illegalities. The Court of Auditors is right to wipe them together below the tolerance limit. There is a difference between not informing the Chamber in time and financial management. Well, let me start with the first. Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act deals with the Court's budget law. It's about power and counterpower. It's about the governance culture. It's about us taking our role as a Chamber seriously. I agree with Mr Nijboer that the Prime Minister sounds a little too much like the successor of Cosimo de' Medici: "The accounting is not quite fine, but it will be fine. Get some sleep." This is about power and counterpower. We've had that discussion before. That discussion didn't start with the corona expenses. We already had that discussion about Air France-KLM. We had a good debate on this with the Minister of Finance. We have also made new agreements on this. The Council of State had already given its opinion on the point that the Upper Chamber should also be informed, but it is not. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr Snels rightly referred to Article 2.27 of the Rules of Procedure which does not provide that, in exceptional cases, ministries may enter into obligations and spend before official authorization by the States General. The Minister of Finance rightly writes about this in his annual financial report of the Empire: 'Where the fight against the corona crisis requires more financial space for existing policies, we have been very reluctant to do so. We have always tried to give quality content to the budget law of the States General." I just said about specifically this point, informing the House of Representatives, that this was just not right. We should have done that in March, of course, but it only happened in the spring note. This was also asked for in the debate on corona that we had last week in response to the measures taken last Saturday. I said at the time: 'I am absolutely not happy with what the Court of Auditors is showing here. I'm just asking about the context in which you look at it. You have to learn the right lessons from that." I can only repeat once again that I take this very seriously and that we do not trivialize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u108	And the point of the Chamber is that we knew this before. Mistakes had already been made with the failure to inform the Upper House. We asked the Council of State about this a year ago. So the cabinet already knew before the corona crisis: if we apply Article 2.27, we must also inform the First Chamber; that is the budget law of the States General. But that didn't happen. Mistakes have also been made. Of course I understand that things go wrong in a crisis. But this was already wrong. So no lessons had been learned from the years before the corona crisis. Then what lesson does the Prime Minister draw from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u109	That we need to anchor this even more firmly with each other. Again: this is the easy part. When I answer parliamentary questions myself, I always send a copy to the First Chamber and when the answer is addressed to the First Chamber, I send a copy to the Second Chamber. For example, all 225 Members always know what I am replying. That's just good to take care of, I guess, that's not where the problem is. I agree with GroenLinks that what happened here is a problem. But it's not like that's complicated. Much more complex is the question of putting pressure on all these orders and now identifying exactly what is left and whether we can get it back. I can't promise that we can count everything back to the last mouth cover, but I think it's a very fair question how to get a grip on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u110	This concerned the Court's budget law, with which it did not go well. The second point concerns shortcomings in financial management which have led to unlawful expenditure and obligations. That too has been a problem for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u111	Wider in the budget. The annual report. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u112	But certainly also at VWS. There too, the lessons of the past have not yet been learned. That's what I was talking about in my contribution from De' Medici once: the basis was out of order. And when the base is not in order, the weaknesses become visible in crisis time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u113	On this specific point, the division of roles is that I would take the personal protective equipment and the 5 billion, which were re-boiled to the serious 590 million, and that the Finance Minister would go more broadly into the Compatibility Act and VWS in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u114	On behalf of my group, too, I would like to say that the Prime Minister is very easy to talk about. We have an experienced Prime Minister here who knows what the rules are. We can find anything on corona. It's easy for him to talk that out of it. But still the case of that €30,000. It is half a billion, €30,000, announced on 22 December without knowing the States-General. It's just being announced. We've been talking here for one and a half, two years about a decent arrangement for the parents. None of that could have happened, all of it could not, until at some point its own functioning and its own cabinet come under pressure and a report is presented. At some point, sometime on 22 December, without knowing the Chamber, the Prime Minister says, through the Secretary of State, that I am going to pay half a billion euros. How does that relate to the right of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u115	We have really had this debate here so many times. I still fully support what we did in December. We can all repeat that now, but then we're really going to compare apples to pears. I don't think that's right. I think it's really good that we decided to do it that way. But once again, that debate has really been held here endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u116	I repeat my question. I think this is really too short. If our General Court of Auditors, as a High Colleague of the State, concludes that it puts the Chamber for a done fact and that it does not recognise the budget right of the Chamber, the Prime Minister can say that we have already discussed it once, but we are looking back at the business operations, the rules we have with each other. That's how you talk everything away, that's how everything's gonna go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u117	There's two sides to it. Firstly, I still think it is a very sensible step that we took at the time. It's about the content. In addition, you can have the discussion about how the expenses, also in relation to the Chamber, are justified and landed here. The Minister of Finance will say something about this shortly, because we have done the division of roles in such a way that I do Defence and VWS and the Minister of Finance the other departments. So he'll come back to that. I shall come briefly to the child allowance, because it has also been debated this morning and there will be further debates. It is not that I intend to create a great chaos there myself by turning the whole structure around again. We are now working very hard to implement all the measures that have been agreed. I have every confidence in Secretary of State Van Huffelen. She's working day and night to do parents justice. I support her and the Minister of Finance supports her where necessary. So it's not like we're gonna solve this right now by setting up a new structure. I don't think that's a good idea. Then there was a question about extra money for youth care: how is it monitored and accounted for? An agreement was made on the allocation of additional funds in 2022. This is a large amount of money in response to the ruling of the Committee of Wise Men. It has indicated that monitoring within and good data on the youth system is of the utmost importance. We support this importance and are now going to agree with the UNG as part of the whole reform agenda. That is a point we have quite a lot at stake. To Mrs Den Haan's question about the GD, I would like to reply that, as I said to Mr Alkaya, we are, of course, drawing lessons from the crisis. On many fronts we will reflect on this and in different sub-areas will follow evaluations. Then we will also look again at the GDD. In addition, I must say that I am impressed by their performance in the vaccination programme. I think we all agree with that. But this also applies: whether this structure, the decentralisation and how it is all organized... I think we have succeeded very quickly in establishing the necessary emergency links with each other. There André Rouvoet has done a very good job with the central organisation. I think you have to learn lessons again: if something like this happens again, do you do it this way or do you draw other conclusions? That will certainly come back, and we will take this point into account. Then I'll join the Defense Department, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u118	Before you do that, there is a question from Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u119	The Prime Minister quickly ignored the drama of childcare allowances. I also asked a question about the system. At the beginning of last year, the Prime Minister in this Chamber was very enthusiastic about the step-by-step abolition of the system. Is he still like that in there? The programme of the party from which the Prime Minister comes is not very clear about that. Does he still want to step-by-step abolish the surcharge system and trade in for something that is better, simpler and fairer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u120	Yeah, I absolutely do. This is also stated in the letter we sent following the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance and the terrible disaster that took place there: not that committee, but the disaster that the committee was investigating. The fact is that even the most right-wing VVD will be shocked by the consequences if you abolish supplements without a very comprehensive policy, because this leads to extreme de-levelling effects. That's just a fact. That makes it a very complex transition. In that sense, I tend to think that my party has written it down most wisely, namely that we acknowledge this and that it is a search. I found from my party that other parties had very easy solutions, which I still have to see if they work. That will have to be part of a formation that I hope my party will be able to contribute to, but the ambition is to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u121	We share that ambition. Other parties had very good solutions, such as a higher minimum wage. That was also a solution of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u122	That's a step. It helps a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u123	And a refundable tax discount. I am only giving it to the Prime Minister in his thinking process to turn that ambition into concrete steps as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u124	The Christian Union knows that this will also have all kinds of effects for the single-earners. It's really complicated, but I agree with him. Of course you don't want to... Of course, you want to pump around as simple a tax system as possible with as little as possible. The fact is that the Tax Administration has now become a major benefit organisation. Personally, I have to say quite honestly I don't know if I'll curse in my own party I have less trouble with the care allowance. But when it comes to the child care allowance and the rent allowance, you see so many effects that you don't want at all, and of course the incredible drama that has taken place over the last ten years, specifically around the child care allowance, and the enormous consequences that that has had for a lot of people. Anyway, I think if you look at that, even my party's gonna be okay, right, Eelco? It says that we, too, include the health care allowance. But it's not easy. Then a few things about DOD. Defence has taken over the recommendations of the General Court in the field of central and decentralised ammunition, I say to D66. The administrative problems are due, among other things, to excessive workload, which means that procedures related to logistics activities have not been followed carefully in all cases. An improvement program has now been launched on the ammunition domain. This focuses on regulation, training and knowledge. It's a multi-annual programme. It will take several years, with continued attention being paid to the proper implementation and enforcement of the measures in practice. For this purpose, the Defence Department has set up a monitor ammunition domain with the aim of continuously improving that entire piece of Defense in the broadest sense. Then there's the question about the cuts. The General Court notes that Defence has not achieved its original objective. On the one hand, the desire to cut back on defence and, on the other hand, to call increasingly on defence for commitment, not only internationally, but also nationally, have proved incompatible. Despite this, it has always produced and implemented a balanced budget, but in recent years there has been a conscious choice not to make all the cuts. Political choices have been made not to do so and in some cases to reverse austerity. This has always been done in consultation with Parliament. Defence improves the understanding of costs and systematic decision-making on the basis of the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors in order to have that whole insight on paper and also the impact of decision-making in the future. I endorse the lessons that relate to information management and to transparent and follow-up decision-making. I think that great steps have now been taken and they will have to be continued in the coming years. Then it's aviation. There is no doubt that mobility of people has contributed to the spread of the corona virus in the first and second wave. That is why we also had to decide on flight bans and bans. In the meantime, we have been able to replace it with a system of entry bans, travel advice, testing obligations and a quarantine obligation. Aviation has no particular preferential position. The cabinet simply recognises the importance of this sector for the economy and society as well. This applies to goods flows. Look at the protective equipment we had to get out of China. You shouldn't have thought the planes weren't there. The same applies, of course, to the movement of persons. We have always tried to limit the damage caused by the measures by taking all the measures that were necessary, but also by doing nothing more than doing so. In short, aviation measures, like all other measures in the crisis, are subject to the conditions that we have always set, namely proportionality and subsidiarity. Finally, the question of recovering the Ms van ISIS and two children. What does that mean for the cost? This was addressed in general terms during Question Time by Grapperhaus, the Minister for Justice and Security. The system of budgeting and accountability makes it impossible to account for costs at individual level, especially if a very large number of departments are also involved in different ministries and it is also partly covered by secret information. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions I tried to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u125	There are a few more follow-up questions. First of all, Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA and Mr Sneller from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u126	In my speech I also asked a question about social cohesion in the Netherlands. It's taking off. It's been decreasing since 2013. I was very curious to know how you intend to turn that around in order to ensure that we are moving in the right direction again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u127	That answer was with Mr Hoekstra, because he will deal with the Monitor Brede Prosperity. But I also very much like to answer that question, because I agree with what he was going to say. I think you should note that this monitor contains several indicators that say something about social cohesion. And if you look at that, I think that is where Mrs Van Dijk's speech went mostly about................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You referred specifically to volunteering, which, by the way, was taken from my heart. We are world champions of volunteering after Denmark. We're here for each other. What made this happen? That was the effect of all the measures, the anti-contact measures. Luckily, they're less and less needed. You just saw.I think that your point was... that that decline was already visible even before the corona crisis in the previous editions of the monitor. I think you are now having an additional effect because of the crisis, but we are still among the best in the European Union. I can't just yell at people on my own: do more volunteering. That's not gonna work. I can do it here, I'll do it here, but I don't think it's gonna have much effect. I think we should work together across a broad front. This affects the maintenance of social and social trust in the Netherlands. This has even increased in 2020 and is among the highest in the world. The confidence in you, in the police, in the judiciary and in the functioning of democracy is very great in the Netherlands. That is a great asset and we must continue to work on it as a government. That's the base. As a liberal, I can add that I am convinced that people are ultimately social beings. If we are able to develop in society in the direction in which we are best placed, in a job, occupation or volunteering, we as social beings are almost self-interested about others. Mr Heinen turned against 'the big me', to sum up, but our society is the opposite of that. In short, I don't have a magic formula so I can say: next year it's much more. But in addition to letting go, hopefully, of the anti-contact measures, it is important to maintain public confidence in this. What Mr Wilders said about journalists this week is not helping. Such statements, of course, do not contribute to social and social trust. Getting up against it and finding something about it is part of laying a foundation, which ultimately makes people willing to work for each other in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mrs. Van Dijk? No. Then we go to Mr Sneller of D66, then to Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party, Mr Alkaya of the SP and Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u129	The Prime Minister has quite neatly addressed all the serious shortcomings and said that they are being worked on and that there will be a plan of action. However, we can see above that in 2020 there were more errors than in 2019, in 2019 more than in 2018, in 2018 more than in 2017 and in 2017 more than in 2016. I can't wait to hear from the Prime Minister that he takes that seriously. The colleagues were talking about trivializing. The Prime Minister says, "I don't do that," but all the phrases for that do radiate that. I would also like to hear from him that it is indeed an expensive duty to come below that limit next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u130	Yeah, that's right. I'm sorry. Maybe I'm a little too wired positive to stick around for a long time that things didn't go well. I have faith in the expensive duty the members of the cabinet feel of redeploying this kind of thing. It is not only a responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but primarily of the discerning rulers to ensure that matters are in order in their departments. He can support, advise, etcetera, and he is of course responsible for the Compatibility Act, but ultimately it has to be done in the departments. I see that the people in this ministerial team feel this expensive duty and it is incredibly unbelievable that the Court of Auditors does not provide sufficient parts of it. I'm not okay with that either. That also motivates me to deal with this and to draw attention to it in the cabinet. I apologize if my body language isn't that I'm on the floor crying. I do not think I can solve the problem earlier, but I feel the same way as Mr Sneller. I'm really convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u131	It's not just the body language. It's also because we heard in previous years: I'd rather ask forgiveness than permission in advance. Last week it was in the debate on legality versus managing the crisis, which does not do justice to all the things that could have happened to settle it. I also call it the stamp. I understand that the Prime Minister wants to graduate the seriousness and complexity of the situation and then come to a solution, but it is also a question of whether he is suggesting that it is simply unlawful. Unfortunately, as Mr Azarkan rightly said, things have only got worse since the beginning of this cabinet. I can see that in the one-to-one debates we have, too, that this duty is felt, but the resultant is the opposite. I do not want to make the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance responsible for everything, but I do think it is right to return to it more often in the Council of Ministers or collectively, as we should in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u132	We both feel that way, and that's what's gonna happen. Last week the debate was specifically about VWS. I said that I do not like what the Court of Auditors says about this and that we take it very seriously, but in the specific case of the corona crisis, I also asked for the context to be taken into account. I will not tire anyone here of the lists of Members of Parliament's quotes from all the parties who said: 'fast, fast, fast','hurry' and 'not that bureaucracy'. That is no excuse, because then we still have to ensure that we inform the Lower House and the Upper House in time and try to set up the administrative systems in such a way that everything is traceable again. Some things just didn't go well either. I only drew attention last week to that particular aspect of VWS in 2020. I do not agree with that 100%, but I do think that can be taken into account. When it comes to the broader issue, we both feel the need and urgency. It will be because of my character that I am trying to put that on a positive note by saying that we are going to do it, while you may want to hear for a longer time that I say: I think it is very serious. But so do I. So that is more of a difference in style than a difference in content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u133	It's not that I'd like to hear the Prime Minister say "our big, big debt," as my grandfather preached. But I would like to hear optimistic: we are indeed going to take care of that. 'Cause this year's excuse isn't there anymore. I understand that all relativization must not become bagatellization. But that was 2020. The corona crisis will hopefully be under more control in a moment. I hope you will say that this year we are going to do everything we can to ensure that there is an affirmative explanation and not such a number of errors above the tolerance limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u134	Yes. I'm just quoting Hoekstra's text. I do not know if he is using it, but he could have said that 46 incidental supplementary budgets were submitted in 2020. That is, of course, a huge number, which has to do with the crisis. So that happened in 2020. It was about last week when I said that context must be considered. What you are saying is: that argument will be much less in 2021 and perhaps not at all anymore. Nor is the trend always favourable; I agree with Mr Sneller. I can only say that this Minister of Finance also regularly calls attention to this in the Councils of Ministers and that he has also pointed out a number of times when a few things were not going well in the departments. He has, of course, mostly through the IRF, I think, to see how things are going. Finance has its ways to know what is happening in the departments. He doesn't hesitate to address that. I can tell that colleagues think that is important as well. Once you see that it is becoming a trend that something is not going well in a department, it is also true that it is often too late to get a bonus from the Court of Auditors in the same year. Then it's often just too late. But then you have to pick it up right away, so it'll be okay next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u135	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u136	Some of those heavy stuff, like the DOD, takes a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u137	It is good how the Prime Minister and the Minister can quote each other from each other's speeches. That's how you help each other. I have a question. I understand that Minister Hoekstra is about broad prosperity, but I would also like to put a question to the Prime Minister, first among the equals. It's actually three questions, looking at the Monitor Brede Prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u138	I already have it in my hand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u139	There he is! I have three questions. The first is on the analysis of the CBS, the second is on the conclusions of the CBS and the third is on the recommendations or recommendations. the political consequences. I actually hope that we can agree on two out of three. My first question, of course, is: does the Prime Minister share the analysis from the Monitor Brede Prosperity? This analysis means that we have three elements: here and now, later and elsewhere. According to the analysis it is going well in the here and now, but in the long run it will be at the expense of later and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u140	Yes, in itself, in broad terms it is of course in very large regions I share it. Of course, that's why it's like the chicken with the golden eggs. That is the difference between the Broad Prosperity Monitor and the classic concept of prosperity based on gross national income. You can take out all the eggs now, but if you don't feed this chicken, you won't have any golden eggs in a few years. That is the difference between a system based on GDP and a system based on the broad concept of prosperity. So you're gonna have to feed the chicken, too. How do you feed it? By solving issues such as nitrogen, climate and environmental issues and the energy transition. And then there are nice things behind it, because if you do, you can build roads and houses again. You also get jobs. I have often predicted that in ten years' time we will have 2 million jobs of which we do not know yet. In these sectors there are also huge opportunities for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u141	It's nice to share that analysis. Indeed, the energy transition offers enormous opportunities for jobs. I agree. The conclusion of the CBS is perhaps that we are already in a bit of a difficult position, but I hope that it is not possible to hold on in this way. It's insane! Does the Minister share that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u142	It is a fact that we have raised climate ambitions to 55%, that Europe has now ended up with climate neutral or at least a fossil fuel emission neutral 2050 and that Timmermans will soon like the Fit for 55 plan. That's gonna be a lot of fighting in Europe. That fight will be about how you deal with it, what you do tax and what you don't, how you divide it, how Eastern Europe does its part and what Western Europe and the rest do. We're gonna have that fight this summer. We're gonna blow each other's brains out, but I think we're gonna figure it out. All this is necessary, because it is not a sustainable path now. You don't come up with the goals you want to achieve right now. This not only affects CO, but indirectly also nitrogen and water, with new issues emerging in 2027 that are already casting their shadows. This whole coherence must therefore be seen in a way that remains feasible and affordable for the individual Dutchman. That is how I say it, and that is a political view, also broad from the cabinet, because otherwise you will give the flanking parties a very big gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u143	Then I do not have to ask the third question, because that is probably where the paths differ. What are you gonna do? However, I am pleased that the Minister shares the analysis and conclusions so that we can see that the current path is not more passable and that we therefore need to change very quickly. That is a good observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u144	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u145	I've spent almost six years in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I've been a Member of Parliament for almost three years now, and still things remain inimitable. The Prime Minister is now saying: I also want to have as simple a tax system as possible and to pump money around as little as possible. And yet, last summer, a job-related investment discount came out of the top hat. Everyone's not excited about that. The coalition parties say "we should actually support it," but they don't see the benefits. Planning agencies also say they don't know what's in it. However, it must and will be there and ultimately it will die because the European Commission does not approve it. How does the Prime Minister look back on this adventure? With his own statement in mind just now, I also want a tax system as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u146	Then you have to lower the Vpb rate. The problem is that in recent years the Netherlands has managed to turn the crisis effects of 2009, 2010, 2011 on you and me as an individual Dutchman into a relief. On balance, our burdens have now fallen. On balance, however, the burden on industry has still risen considerably. You can't go on with that endlessly. Given the importance of our investment climate for our large small and medium-sized enterprises, where 65% of the economy and 70% of the jobs in the Netherlands are located, and the importance of the pulling chimney that the large companies are involved, including for the international appearance of the Netherlands and being attractive to top talent, it is very important that we continue to think about the location climate. In the top of the companies may be few voters, but indirectly the employees of those companies represent very large numbers of voters. I really think it is a risk that, on balance, we in the Netherlands still have a heavy plus burden burden increase for business, while the burden on individual citizens has now been reduced. We had an unfortunate experiment to solve that in 2017-2018. Then last summer was the thought: do it this way, because then it is linked to investment. For the smaller companies, it was indeed through a general reduction in Vpb, but for the large companies through an investment deduction. Moreover, smaller companies could also choose to do so. Turns out it didn't fly. That's why we're doing it in a different way now, but it's still a relief. Only now we do it via the Awf instead of via the BIK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u147	Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u148	So it has to do with the overall burden on business and it is really too high in the Netherlands. That's a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u149	Sure. As tempting as it is to start that discussion and ask whether you should at all reduce the burden on businesses, Mr Rutte has often had that debate with my group chairman, Mrs Marijnissen.... is not my question about that. My question is how do you do that? The Prime Minister himself says: I want a tax system as simple as possible. I don't want a tax discount and money pumping around. But when it comes to giving gifts to business, he gets off it himself. He'll step off his own rules. So you get a complex system with innovation boxes, Wbso, the BIK. Does he see that he's guilty of this complex system? Does he then exclude tax rebates for companies in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u150	First of all, it would be good to make the analysis together that there are no presents here. There is a fact here that, on balance, since the crisis, business is still at a much higher burden than for the crisis and citizens at a lower burden. You can't keep doing that. There comes a time when it becomes a risk to employment. How many people are at the top of the companies? And the people sitting there, they vote CDA. It is not an electoral interest of the VVD to give it a tax discount. The importance for all of us is to ensure that you keep a strong business in the Netherlands, the job engine of the Netherlands. You would prefer to do that by lowering general rates and less deductions, but that is incredibly complex. We have so many deductions at a far too high tax burden for a reason. I also think that citizens are still far too high, but at least it has fallen on balance compared to before the crisis. I would say that in the years to come, above all, make a very specific effort to reduce the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, and my party has put forward proposals for this and the reduction of the burden on the middle groups in the Netherlands. This can also be done in other ways by investing extra in important matters for these groups: security, education, etc. You have to make sure that it is attractive in the Netherlands to belong to that bearing class. In America it's called the middle class and I've called it the hardworking Dutchman. 60% to 70% of Dutch people wear this society: they volunteer in a sports association, comply with the law, vote, are members of a political party. I am concerned about this, and especially about the job-generating capacity of business if we allow the burden to be too heavy there. That's not an electoral target. That is a pure analysis which should lead to obvious conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u151	Thank you. It's your fifth question. I'm just gonna turn it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u152	If the Prime Minister thinks so, he must indeed come forward with a proposal to reduce the tax on profits. Then he says, "That's a good idea." And then the SP says, "That's not a good idea." Then the political debate will take place. The point is that he is looking for complicated ways of doing this, because the reduction in the tax on profits did not succeed. He proposes complex tax reductions for business, which only make the system more complex. I would like to put the question to the Prime Minister: if he finds the tax system too complex, if he is also in favour of a simple tax system, will he exclude complex tax reductions for business in the future? Doesn't he come up with crazy proposals like the Job-related Investment Discount anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u153	Last time I checked, my party had 21.9% of the votes. That was 0.7% more than the previous elections, so no dramatic improvement. This means that 28% more is needed to achieve majorities. It's always been the case in the Netherlands that you need majorities. Then you come to compromises, to argue, and then you look at what's smart. We thought it would be wise to look at whether the tax rebate could be broadly linked to investment, not only for larger businesses but also for smaller businesses. Moreover, I believe that we have allowed some 900 million on the shelf for VPB reduction to go ahead for small and medium-sized enterprises in reducing the low rate. Of course, you'd love to do it all in the tariff reductions. If I had it on my own, that would be the most straightforward, but in the Netherlands you always have to compromise. I can't guarantee it's gonna be like this. But I am glad that Mr Alkaya is not talking so much about the question of how. Then we're gonna get out. So far, his forewife has always talked about the or-question, but apparently it's passed. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u154	That is a false conclusion from the Prime Minister, but aboundingly. Of course, he knows that very well. It's about what you spend your taxpayers' money on and how complex you make it all. If, on the one hand, the Prime Minister finds it too complex but, on the other hand, he doesn't want to commit himself to making it more complex in the future because he thinks it's more important that companies keep getting gifts, we're actually talking here for nothing. Then we can all agree with each other that it is very complex, but at the same time we make it much more complex. The Prime Minister is cooperating in this. My final question is this because this is my last interruption, and it's about the bonuses. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not go into that either. How are we all going, because we have also maintained support for many of these measures in the pandemic if there are so many companies that do not handle them properly? On the one hand they collect support and on the other hand they continue to pay bonuses to their top men.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u155	First of all, on that first point. I think it is best for my party and I also thought for the confessional parties in the Netherlands that the best thing was always to keep the overall load pressure low. Deductions are needed to correct an excessive burden. Preferably, you can couple as little social goals as possible to deductions. I have always explained that the mortgage interest deduction is also there to stimulate asset formation, but at the core it is to compensate for too high a burden for the middle groups. That's why you have the mortgage interest deduction, which is why you have deductions in the Vpb. Yeah, if you kept it simple, you'd have low rates. Then you don't need all those deductions. But that is difficult in the Netherlands. This applies not only to the Netherlands, however. On that other point, I find it undesirable, really undesirable, that bonuses should be paid at the top of companies if they have used support. That was said here last week by Hoekstra and Koolmees. But we did have to make tough choices. The imposition of additional conditions on bonuses could have had an impact on employment and also on implementation risks. This is also a lesson from the childcare allowance affair: that as a policy we impose endless additional conditions on implementation, which at some point says 'this is what we can do'. I had a debate the other day and I will not mention any names with a Member of Parliament who said: I would like to continue the TVL in a certain form, but without any money going to companies that do not need it. Then I said, "There's no such variant." Either the TVL will not be extended in any way or there will also be a lot of money from companies that do not need it. Those are choices we make. This has been inevitable. But it is not in question that Hoekstra, Koolmees, Blok or I are not waiting to see companies getting money also pay out a bonus. I think that's just wrong, too. By the way, I read something in the media about that very specific company. I hope it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u156	We would like to know from the Prime Minister how intensive his involvement was in the financial organization and control of covid expenditure and what this shows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u157	Zero, of course. AZ has one official following VWS. He can't even check the books. You don't have to, because that's what finance does. It supports this and has the responsibility under the Compatibility Act. But of course it is always the responsibility of the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u158	But when you see how horrible things have gone wrong, do you not think, as CEO of the cabinet as it were, that it is important enough to turn that into a chefsache?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u159	You are making a new presidential system of the Netherlands. Don't do that. You'll make me too powerful. You're never gonna deliver the job, so don't do that. Unwise, don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u160	Thank you. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We're gonna clean up and then I'm gonna give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I should start with Mr Heinen, Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Ephraim, I do not see him sitting here today congratulating him warmly on their maiden speeches. I think we all saw Mr Heinen speaking at the age of eight about geopolitical dilemmas of a sensible East policy. I would like to congratulate him in particular because he is once again a Member of Parliament who has left the Ministry of Finance's mother ship. Last week I told another Member of Parliament who is on the rise that these are, in our view, the most dangerous. With Mrs Van Dijk we have seen that she has enjoyed the fruits of a loving and, as she herself said, spartan education. I'd like to add something. Anyone who has ever studied what the Spartans understood under a spartan education will hope that this has not been shared with her. She also received the daily prize from Mr Van Raan. Of course, that's a great honor. I would like to point out, with all the appreciation I have for Mr Van Raan and for the times that I have also received the daily price, that it is often immediately settled. I would also have liked to say something to Mr Ephraim, but it is a bit chic to do so when he is present. I'll save that for a while. Maybe he'll come back. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to say a few things for introduction. I'm going to do that for a shorter time than I intended, because you were already critical of that in advance. Then I want to talk about financial management in general and at VWS, about my role, what really can and should be done better, about the Compliance Act and about budget law. That is a very large part of the debate, but I would like to take it all together, because there are so many intersections. The second is the tax arrangements. Third, I wanted to talk about corona generally, because there were also questions that were not so much about incompatibility or about injustices, but more about how it went with support or with OCW. As a fourth broad prosperity. And then there's a very extensive part of it. I'm gonna try to speed up, but I'm not out of here for a while, I guess. So I'm gonna start with that really big first block. Perhaps I should immediately join the exchange of views in the first term of the Chamber and also the interrupting microphone. I would like to thank Members very much, not only for the questions, but also for the context, the pluses and the obvious loves that have been observed, and for the whole picture. I would like to emphasise once again that I really think we have this as a cabinet to take very seriously, that it is our expensive duty and that you should bear in mind the context of 2020, when it comes to what happened. I'll tell you more about it in a minute. Nijboer, Sneller and Azarkan all asked what the lessons were. I'm about to go into that much more extensively. I would like to emphasise that these two things, in my opinion, go hand in hand. So as well as the context that is really different, and really the expensive duty I would like to borrow the words of Sneller, I believe that the cabinet takes this very seriously and should also take it seriously. I really do. Mr. Chairman. On Responsible Day, on behalf of the Cabinet, I sent all the accounting documents with the Reich's Annual Financial Report 2020 to your Chamber. This is about a period when we have allocated billions to protect people and fight the virus, often under very difficult conditions. It is good that we are having this conversation and this debate and that we are accountable for it. That is, in essence, the best guarantee and an essential part of how we'll do better next year, how we'll learn lessons and make sure we do better some wrong next time. By the way, I agree with what the Prime Minister has just said. Unrighteousness can often be solved much faster. I recognize that you are often longer stuck with imperfections, including from my own department. I remember saying in the first year: I want to talk to the ministerial staff at least once every quarter about the shortcomings, but I want to get rid of them next year. Then they said: we're going to explain to you what that's like, because you won't be out of it in a year. The Court of Auditors agrees with that, by the way. You're stuck with a lot of imperfections for a couple of years. That doesn't affect the effort that needs to be made. In my opinion, the billions on commitments and expenditure have just been extensively reviewed, and also how you can classify them all. I'm about to answer specific questions, but I didn't really want to repeat them. That has already been said by the Prime Minister and cut for the MPs. I would like to say the following to Mr Sneller. The Prime Minister has already mentioned this. Mr Sneller quite rightly asked for a fairly substantial part of what went wrong, namely to inform Parliament in good time and in the right way, and in particular the First Chamber. He asked how that could have gone wrong. That is a very fair question. As he said, we have changed the law and yet it often goes wrong. In a regular year, the departments make hardly incidental suggestions. That happened 46 times in 2020. If a department normally does that, it doesn't need steam and boiling water. Then the House of Representatives directs it to the Upper House. Then you can quietly wait and then there is often much less haste. What's wrong with this? Meanwhile, the cabinet wanted to publish. Sometimes the First Chamber was not informed until after the expenses had already started. Sometimes there were mistakes in the processes. Sometimes those were bigger mistakes and sometimes smaller mistakes. There are examples of this. I'm not saying that for condolences, but to tell you what we're talking about. For example, there is also an illegality in which the First Chamber has been informed, but in which I think the department was EZK, but I would like to get rid of that information by putting it in cc in a message to the Second Chamber. That is an injustice, because it has to be different. These things are all under the hood of things that went wrong. I don't want to justify any of them. They all deserve improvement, but the context is relevant and we need to distinguish between the difference in severity. I think that's part of the solution. That leads to Mr Sneller's question as to why this is happening. I am going to go into the lessons even more extensively, but I wanted to say the following to him and a number of others. It is very easy to say to departments, also from my role: listen, this is something that is easily solved next time; if you plan to send a sup, then this is the route. You can invest that again with all sg's, via FEZ and via the IRF. You can talk to them. Again, I don't think this is the most serious thing, but that had been a sip on a drink here. So that's all we need to do. Mr. Chairman. It is good to mark what is unlawful, purely for wearing. Let me repeat once again that I do not think that you should try to hide any of these injustices or justify them. I also say to Mr Azarkan once again that we must take it very seriously. But it is about not following the procedure properly in a formal sense. This is about the serious issues that the Prime Minister has just talked about, where it is really unclear what the added value is, where receipts are. Fortunately, that is a very small category if you look at the total amount. And it is about things like ICC, which I have just mentioned, which are rightly counted on their own account, which are of a different nature, but which still have to be improved. Let me also say once again in the direction of all those who referred to it: Azarkan, Nijboer, Faster, Faster, but let me not try to mention them all. That is, of course, also the inconvenience, the procedure that Sneller asked me about, which I just referred to. We have just done that for such a situation. I would, by the way, give him and the Chamber an undertaking to look again at whether or not that is the right thing to do. My suspicion is that it would be more practical if we just put that back in the departments and also try to keep our finger on the pulse as a financial institution, because the procedure is quite clear in itself. It's just that this procedure isn't used very much. It's a bit like taking an activity that you normally never do, suddenly with steam and boiling water off the shelf again, so it goes wrong more often. So there's just an assignment there. I'd like to say I'm gonna look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u162	Is it convenient to finish the block first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u163	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's a block of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u164	It's a block of size. Then I give the floor to Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u165	I do not want to detract from the tax arrangements and the wide-ranging prosperity, because then I get into a fight with this or that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u166	But this is a wide block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u167	...but this is going to determine more than half of my share of the debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u168	I call Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona stains are justified. That was also the debate we had with the preimier. But let me take the nice graph from the Court of Auditors' report. There you can see the trend deterioration in legality in expenditure and obligations. That goes from 2015, the yellow line and the orange line. Systematic, trendy, there is a deterioration there. Without corona, if you were to cross that line, we would have crossed the tolerance line, too. Then there is the question at what point the Minister of Finance or the Cabinet pulls the emergency brake or the emergency bell, so that we know that it is really getting serious and that it is no longer just an inventory of the individual cases in which it has gone wrong, but that there is apparently a trend and a structural error.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u170	I would like to say a little bit more in the direction of Mr Snels about everything you should do about structural matters as far as I am concerned. You could go through the trend line, but at the same time I believe 70% of the illegalities caused by corona. So I am not going to pretend that the cabinet... I also tasted it with Mr Nijboer, who said: there are only two shortcomings, so the cabinet pretends to be all right. No, even if five had gone off, I would have said: there are still dozens, so you have to do something about it. That is what I think is at the heart of the matter, regardless of the debate on exactly where we would have come out without a corona. We would not have had these 70% injustices. I am sure there would have been more time to discuss this with officials and in the Council of Ministers. If you compare with, for example, 2018 or 2019, then you can see that much more often in the ministerial staff at the Ministry, with its own Secretary of State and with its own official summit, also in the Cabinet, I have just said regularly: boys, pay attention, it may not be a sexy subject, but it comes back on Accountability Day, so we have to pay attention to this. I didn't do that in 2020, or much less. I did. We did intervene. Finance has also done a great deal of work for the injustices and imperfections that threatened to arise from corona, but much of the normal work has, of course, received less attention. I am not saying that to make it smaller; I hope that Mr Snels will accept it from me. I'll tell you more about what you can do as far as I'm concerned.That's my job, too, but maybe we could also get together on this point in order to improve things, specifically at VWS, but also in full width. Because I think, even though that trend went down by a few percent a year, that it would have to go down harder. That should be your ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u171	Let's talk about the graph. The graph shows that there is a straight line in the deterioration of legality in both expenditure and obligations. You can see that line getting steeper in the last year. The explanation for that is corona. But if you'd just pulled that line straight ahead, we'd have crossed the tolerance line, too. Then it's not about five years in a row, starting in 2015. It is no longer just a question of explaining individual irregularities in commitments and expenditure. It seems to me that, as a cabinet and as a finance minister, you are going to think about the question: is there an analysis behind the fact that we have fallen into this deterioration of legality? What's wrong? I haven't heard an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u172	Again, you'll see it going the wrong way in about six, seven years. All I've just tried to say is that it's complicated to commit some sort of if-history to what this year would have been like without corona and where you'd have ended up. After last year's Accountable Day, I believe before the summer recess, I had a conversation with colleagues in the cabinet and with their own ministry. The subject of discussion was the trend that went the wrong way. What are we gonna do about it? How can I help? What do people have to do? What do ministries have to do themselves? I feel co-responsibility for that. But Finance is not an organization that can parachute a team somewhere and can watch and advise. We can teach people at political or administrative level, but we cannot accept that. That's really important. I think Mr Snels recognizes that from his previous life. Having that conversation and whining about it over and over in the Council of Ministers has an effect, because what you pay attention to is growing. And in this case, you hope it shrinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u173	I am afraid that now the Minister of Finance, in the slipstream of the Prime Minister and Hugo de Jonge, is trying to trivialize this. It's about the House's budget right. I can still hear Hugo de Jonge say in the First Chamber, boys, what are you talking about? I should have sent a note to the First Chamber and the problem wouldn't have been there. The Prime Minister's talking about a stamp: oh, guys, you're worried, we forgot to stick a stamp, but that's so fixable. And now this finance minister says it's all not that bad. It's about budget law. Perhaps as a Chamber we should delete Article 2.27. We have given a hand delivery to the cabinet: exceptionally, you may spend money without permission, but at least inform us in advance. That is what we are asking for in Article 2.27. What the hell? A stamp, a note, what are you worried about? Maybe we should just delete the article. Maybe we should put a fine on it if the Chamber isn't informed. Is this how we're supposed to hang out? Is that the idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u174	I really cannot allow myself to be fooled, even after what I said about this in the first term and what is simply reflected in the Acts. I have repeatedly said that I think it is the expensive duty, even of this cabinet in its afternoons, to take this seriously. I understand very well that, even when it comes to things that deserve context and are smaller, they still have to weigh heavily in a democracy. The cabinet takes Parliament's budget law very seriously. I didn't make any inch of a misunderstanding about that. Mr Van Dijck is allowed to take the cabinet to any measure, but on the basis of the ten minutes I have been standing here, you really cannot reasonably say that the cabinet would not take that seriously. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u175	Well, at least you don't say you're taking it seriously. I'm looking at all my colleagues. They see me talking and they all say: yes, yes, you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u176	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u177	So it doesn't seem like you're saying, guys, this isn't gonna happen anymore. What has happened in recent years is not going to happen to me as Minister of Finance. I'm gonna go after everybody on this one, and I'm gonna take the lead. Because you're also getting your ass kicked by the General Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u178	Mr. Van Dijck, please go through the chairman. You say you a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u179	The Minister of Finance also gets his ass kicked by the General Court when it comes to his supervisory role. You didn't do it well. About the intervention in the maladministration at VWS, it is said that you were asleep. That's what the General Court says. In other words, that sense of urgency, that need to do this better, doesn't really radiate you. I think that, as a Chamber, we should consider Article 227, because now it is simply being abused.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mr Van Dijck is now speaking on behalf of what he thinks he is reading on the faces of the others. It's gonna be complicated. I won't rat them out, but I saw a few with their heads shaking and a few with a smile on their faces. It's getting complicated to start measuring all that. What I wanted to say is that the cabinet takes it very seriously. I also think it is absolutely right that the cabinet should take this seriously, because it is about something very fundamental in a democracy. Budget law is one of the most important parts of the Chamber's toolbox, so of course that is very relevant. At the same time, many in the Chamber have indicated that the context was very exceptional. We've had the biggest medical crisis in a long time, at least since the war. We had the biggest financial and economic crisis, at least the biggest expenditure since the war on this subject. There were all kinds of things that the department of VWS wasn't equipped for, of course, but that had to be arranged. I will say a few things about that context in a moment. There are also some MPs and people in the media who have said something about it. The core of it was: hurry up, put everything on everything. That is the context in which VWS officials, often from home, because they had to, tried to solve this problem as well and as angry as it went. The fact that this is also part of the discussion does not change how serious the cabinet takes it, but it is two things that are both relevant in this discussion. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya asked a question that belongs to the Prime Minister's set. He asked whether the Prime Minister would take full responsibility for the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors. On his behalf, I say yes. I think I have just answered Mr Snels' question. He asked if we'd be attracted to that tolerance threshold. Yeah, absolutely. Soon more about what to do. Mr Heinen asked if I could inform the Chamber, perhaps periodically, about errors in financial management. It's complicated. In the regular talks with the President of the General Court of Auditors, knowing what was going on in 2020, I think it was the second quarter of last year, but let me finish saying: how are we going to do that and can't you get some kind of indication, so you also have an action perspective? That's not exactly how it goes. The Court of Auditors shall give its opinion once a year. I'm not getting any interim information, except, of course, the information I get from the departments. One of the things that I intended to do and which the Prime Minister intended to do is to go back to the cabinet after today: ladies and gentlemen, you may be outgoing and there are all kinds of other things, but this is about something that is really serious, so discuss it and we will come back to it in one or two months' time. I'm gonna do that again in my own department. Again, that's not the only solution. I'm going to mention a few things, but that works. We all know that when you are constantly reminded of something, the next time you think, I want to get ahead of it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan was right to ask for his motion last year. Of course, we did. That, by the way, is where part of my answer came from in the direction of Mr Heinen. Can you get some kind of mid-term report? I would like to say to him that we have realised this, but I have also seen how departments, particularly VWS, struggled at that stage with what simply had to be physically regulated. Mr. Chairman. Mr Grinwis and Mr Sneller asked about the illegalities at VWS. They asked how that went, how I reflected on it and what we ourselves could have done differently. That's a fair question. I am not going to quote it all, but it is good to name the film of March last year in context. It was a time of enormous and also life-threatening shortages. The need is literally up to the man. You see that in the press and you see that the Chamber realizes that. I have statements from the media, in which Kalsbeek says: the situation is very precarious. The president of Zuyderland hospitals says: we can stop if we don't have mouth caps anymore. Kuipers who, of course, we all got to know a lot better after that, says: even if the prices are perhaps four times higher, they still fall short of other costs that have to be incurred. Minister Schouten is looking within her own sector at veterinarians and suppliers to arrange mouth caps. Defense is helping. VNO says: we are going to interfere. MPs say, "Minister, make sure that stuff gets here." That's what Jetten said. The SGP said everything. Mr Klaver said: it means we have to do everything we can. A motion of about the entire Chamber is about even more top priority for ventilation equipment, test material and protective materials. That was the conversation back then, and rightly so. That was the material reality. That was the obligation that was really felt at VWS to an extreme extent. I found it very right that Mrs Den Haan asked about the context in which officials worked. Others asked for it. They literally worked day and night, seven days a week, with great dedication. They worked part of the way from home, because they were not allowed to sit together. And then they did things they don't normally do. That doesn't go away, I'm saying this in the direction of Sneller and Grinwis, that if you see this coming again, of course you don't just want the policy department to do better. You're gonna learn your own lessons. I just mentioned those tips, for example.I think the second lesson is that we just let it go too long. That was also a structural question from Snels and Snelter. Afterwards, of course, you would have wanted to have strengthened that financial position at VWS earlier. That's what we're looking at right now. That's what we're gonna do now. After all, why didn't we do that one or two years ago? Maybe that would've happened here. That applies to VWS, but we could have realised that. Mr Van Houwelingen wanted full transparency...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u181	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u182	With regard to the serious shortcomings, I think that as a Chamber we should ask the ministers responsible to give us more information a few times a year. But now it's about that broad financial function. VWS is not the only department where financial management is a problem. We have also had debates on this financial function before. I understand very well that the Minister of Finance is not in all those departments. At the same time, it was discussed in the audit committees. It was also known by the ADR. The Court states that it should not have been addressed so much in March but in September or October. The department leader didn't take any action, although it was known. Can we agree with this Minister that as a Chamber in the interim, for example around the six-month reports, we get some idea of ADR signals in the financial departments of all departments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u183	I would like to give the following undertaking to Mr Sneller and a number of others. I think it is useful to mention a number of things that have now emerged in the debate and a number of things that we have already started to mention, for example, that project at VWS, with additional people, expertise and assistance from Finance, and to inform the Chamber about it in a formal way. This specific point will then be taken into account. Under what circumstances do you think it makes sense to inform the Chamber more often? How do you ensure that it is such adequate information, that it is useful to the Chamber? Once again, it is not a Court of Auditors. Often the ADR is not watching either. So you're getting some kind of self-assessment after all. Maybe there's something to be said about that. I'd like to think about that. At the same time, I would also like to prevent us from having a kind of additional reporting cycle, which organises a lot of extra bureaucracy, but which does not actually inform the Chamber better. With his approval, I would like to say to Mr Sneller: I would like to think about it. I also want to think about the parameters with which you should do such a potential. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u184	I'd love to. This is not just about self-assessment, but also about an interim report from the ADR. There are audit committees in those ministries, too, so I think there's something more possible. I like to hear what comes out of the thinking exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u185	I'd like to do that. Mr Sneller will agree with me, but I think it is important for the debate to emphasise that I would like us to do it especially in those places where you are most concerned. We need to do that in such a way that you don't then paralyze some of that financial function by doing some kind of mid-term assessment while you're improving things. That's putting the horse behind the cart. Then you have spent a lot of time on an assessment and everyone is busy with that reporting. So I'd like to avoid that, but I think it's possible. I'll get back to you on that. I was with Mr Van Houwelingen, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u186	Mr Snels' last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u187	That's fast, Mr. Chairman! I have a very short question in addition to Mr Sneller's questions and the Minister's commitment. I've been looking at the Compatibility Act myself. The Prime Minister was right to point out that the primary responsibility for financial management, for its own budgets, lies with the rulers themselves. However, in Articles 4.11 to 4.16 of the Compatibility Act, I cannot see exactly what the powers of the Minister of Finance are. So that's what's wrong. Does the Minister of Finance really have enough opportunities not only to follow, coordinate and share knowledge, but also to intervene when necessary? Maybe the Minister can take that into account later in his analysis of what goes wrong with VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u188	I would like to do that, but this is something similar to what the Prime Minister just said, namely that we do not have a presidential system. We are indeed watching through all kinds of civil servants who, for example, work at the FEZs. We have a lot of contact with all departments. Eventually, AZ and Finance are the two departments that have links with everyone. But you shouldn't want to be able to intervene directly or send a team there. We are not dimensioned on that at all. We don't have that option. However, we must learn lessons from this corona crisis with each other. Some things are really relatively easy to solve. See the discussion about the Upper House and the Sups. Other things just won't be solved within six months for that is just more work to be done like those imperfections. We have cleaned some of them away, but there are also a lot of mushrooms shot out of the ground. So there's just work there. I'd like to study on that, but it's also something in the category "be careful what you wish for." Then someone else would do that, namely the Minister of Finance, when you want to keep that ownership in such a department itself. So I'll take it with me, but maybe with Mr. Chairman. I'm going to make a third attempt to reach out to Mr Van Houwelingen. He asked for full transparency and partial reports. I would like to say to him that your Chamber has received the successful reports with the answers to the questions raised in the VWS Annual Report and the Final Act. That should have happened. Or did he ask for anything else I didn't provide?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u189	We received the link late last night. That's a link to the same report. We may not have made the question clear. I understand that this is the first time that this has been requested. We'd like to. If it's okay, they should be there. You have the report of the Audit Service Empire. Part-audits must be underneath that. We want to ask them to do so for weeks through actual parliamentary questions, because we want to use them in the discussion of the final law. If it's okay, you own it, too. Not only VWS, but also the Audit Service Rijk owns those partial audits. That could be sent at the press of a button, but it hasn't happened yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u190	I'd like to take a look at that. In this time of hypertransparency we actually share almost everything that is reasonable and unreasonable with the Chamber, so that could also apply to this. But for the sake of precision, the ADR is placed with the Ministry of Finance, but it is not my responsibility. It's not like I can tinker with that information or send research questions. No, the ADR is formally placed with us, but it is completely autonomous and independent, goes to a department and then I get proper copies of things going to the Chamber. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u191	Mr. Rutte just said he doesn't want to turn it into a chefsache. You have received a great deal of criticism from the Court of Auditors that you are not on top of it enough. It is as if the accountant has made a mess of things and we now want as a Chamber, as an FvD, with our own accountants in a number of places to prick. And that's what we need documents for. We in the Chamber, of course, ultimately own those pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u192	I'll leave the qualifications for what they are. I'll see what's going on and whether that's suitable for active sharing at this time of transparency. Maybe that's possible in second term, maybe it's still asking for consultation with VWS; I just don't know that now. I myself do not know what kind of reports are being referred to and whether they can just be spooned up. That's what I need to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u193	The Minister will return to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u194	Mr Grinwis rightly said that most of the unlawfulness was the untimely information of both Chambers, in particular the First Chamber, but also, of course, part of the House of Representatives. He also indicated that ADR and Finance then joined VWS. How do we look back on that? I think it's a good thing we did. The Minister of Trade is the first to be responsible, and it should remain so, but I really believe that the Ministry of Finance has a role to play. It has been really hard worked by all officials on VWS but also from Finance. The new Secretary-General of Finance was also loaned back to VWS almost at the beginning of the crisis to help there, because he had had a recent and very successful past there. Imagine: the Ministry of Finance had de facto no secretary-general in the first few months of the crisis. Why? Because eventually you want to concentrate your troops where it matters most. So I fully understood why Bruins asked me if the sg was available. I've only found it excellent that he's going to do this. Afterwards, of course, you would have liked to have looked at some of those things even more deeply. But I really think, many have already referred to it, that a lot of people at the VWS have worked incredibly hard and well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u195	I believe there has been hard work, but it turns out that a male, not just one, but the Secretary-General of Finance, was with VWS. From the start of the corona crisis, the minister just said, so from March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u196	The exact timeline I should... keep me good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u197	Okay. However, I would like to know if there has been any consultation with that person and the Minister of Finance on how things were going at the VWS ministry. Because apparently there was a forward-looking post there, which had a glimpse of financial management, but it did not act according to the Court of Auditors and actually left the matter at hand, with all the consequences. My question is, therefore, how much consultation there has been between the Secretary-General and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u198	It is Van Dijck's right to attach different qualifications to them than the cabinet does, but at the same time I think that does not do justice to what has happened, again, keeping all the comments on how seriously we take it. I just indicated that this top finance officer, a truly top official, did not go there to supervise on behalf of Finance. No, there was a need for help at VWS at a very senior level in the core activities of VWS. The sg had a recent history there. Keep me on the exact date, Mr President, but I think he formally came to the Ministry on 1 February. So within a few months, he'll be loaned out again. I thought that was justified, because there was even more pumping there than we did at the Ministry, even though it was a madhouse in all ministries at that time. So he wasn't there some kind of forward finance post, no, he was just working on his own duties on VWS. I didn't ask for a list of exactly what he was doing there. No, that was up to VWS and that's how it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u199	Finally, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u200	I'm just asking if there's been any contact between that top finance officer and this finance minister. Also keeping in mind that it was such a mess in financial management, I assume there was contact and there was talk. We even read that he was at the table with Van Lienden about that deal. There has been contact with Van Lienden, it was about 100 million for mouth caps, improper, the consortium did not agree, you name it. It was a mess out there. An understandable gang, because it was in the eye of the corona crisis. But if this minister is blamed, among other things, by the Court of Auditors for not being in charge, for failing to act as a supervisor and for having acted earlier because of the financial maladministration at VWS, then I assume that there should be signs to be able to do so to this minister through, for example, that top official. But now this minister says: there has been no contact, there was a gang there and I didn't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u201	No, this really doesn't do justice to the situation. How does it work? Of course there is contact through the Ministry of Finance, through the executives at the Ministry of Finance who are trying to help in financial management. That's also the logical route. This is not done by a senior official who was loaned out, who did an excellent job there, but who worked there again under the flag of VWS. And yes, of course he and I had sporadic contact, but we also agreed with each other: "Listen, I'm not going to try to present you with financial problems all the time. That's what I'm asking one of the Directors-General, one of the Directors or one of the many outstanding officials in the Ministry, unless there's really something I can't solve without you. Then I'll call you." So we had relatively sporadic contact, also because I wanted him to do his job there. And no... I will say that immediately; that was actually in the category other than. We are going to await VWS' investigation into the entire mouth cover deal, but there is not a single moment when I have been informed about this or that I have been in contact with the loaned secretary-general.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u202	I just want to get back to the context. This loan is fine, because it's good that you help each other; I want to get rid of that. A huge pandemic crisis. The Chamber calls out: we must have mouth caps. No one has them in nursing homes anymore. Everyone says buy everything you can buy. That's why we still have 40 million of those things in a warehouse. That's not the problem right now, and I understand that. But in such a case, I expect the Minister of Finance to keep his head cool and think, "God damn it, this is where billions of dollars go out of the treasury. I need to keep an eye on that in this crisis, especially in a department, VWS, where there have been financial problems for 20 years." I think that's what the Court of Auditors says. It says: the supervision of the Minister of Finance on this point was insufficient. I share that judgment. I haven't heard the Minister say anything about that yet. Afterwards, he didn't think he should have seen in March, April: "Many billions go to hospitals, to care institutions, to mouth caps, to know what, to ventilation equipment. All kinds of things are being purchased. That department is overflowing and politics is spilling. I really need to put a team there, because that doesn't happen by itself." And that's what it turns out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u203	No, I don't. I agree with a great deal of what the Court of Auditors and Mr Nijboer say. But if you look at what we were doing with the whole cabinet, including finance, then that was also very much about material reality. If Mr Nijboer asks me 'would you like to have a closer look at it afterwards, there is not an easy way to prevent some of these irregularities, you would have liked to avoid it afterwards', yes, of course. But when I look at what officials did in that time, when I see what happened in that extreme, exceptional context... In hindsight, you can say: it should have been different. I also really think there are serious lessons to be learned, so I do not want to take anything away from it that we should take it very seriously. Maybe an anecdote to outline the context after all. We were called on the assembly line by all kinds of prominent people: I now have a mouth cap deal, you have to go after it. In fact, one night I got a call from a ministry official. That was called by I mean the LUMC, but it could have been another hospital: we can buy a lot, tens of millions of mouth caps; can we arrange that for a while? But there was something about it that was thought of in the hospital: this stinks. A government official was then consulted. He called me about that. I called Grapperhaus. He called the chief of police. They're gonna find out. That turned out to be wrong and a few days later those people were arrested. That was the context. In the meantime, there was pressure from us, especially towards VWS and others, on formal legality. But it was also very much about the material solution of the problem. Because that was quite frankly in the cabinet and also with me personally really top of mind: how do we get that stuff? How do we get the stuff while Dutch people are literally dying?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u204	I can understand that. I really do understand that. We only now have the Accountability debate on last year's funds spent. The Court of Auditors says that I share the view that financial management has been a problem with Health for years. That's about big money. From the point of view of the supervisory role, I expect the Minister of Finance to be very keen on this at a time of crisis. Of course, too many or too expensive mouth caps or breathing equipment can be bought, but at least I expect him to put something in place to prevent people from running away with money. That didn't happen. So it turns out. And when it happened, it was already November and there was still a formal objection, this year. Then you've been a year, before it finally comes a little towards solution programs, and I think that's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u205	What I really share with Mr Nijboer, but once again, that's easy to talk about afterwards, is that when we look at last year's debate on responsibility or the previous year's debate, that's what I'm charging myself, not least: hey, it was actually very often about the financial function at VWS. I am a little more optimistic than the Court of Auditors when it comes to that dip in all those auditing financial departments, because people have actually joined in the somewhat more recent past. The Court of Auditors says that in the crisis it has fallen enormously. It's partly rebuilt. I think that there is still more to be done, especially in the case of VWS. So I really agree with Nijboer. At the same time, in that period, there was also a man and power working from the Treasury to help in all departments. Those support packages were helped. There has been help in particular on VWS. Help has been given to almost all departments, to the IenW scheme for public transport, and, and, and. That was indeed about financial control, but it was also very often just about what you now have to arrange equipment to keep it going or what you have to arrange equipment to get those mouth caps and stuff coming. So the first thing I very much agree with is Nijboer. I see Mr Azarkan coming. I have said a number of times in his direction that I took the comments on what should be better very seriously, but I did not see him sitting in the Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u206	There is first a question from Van Houwelingen of Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u207	Was the minister's environment, the minister's political environment, for example his political assistant, familiar with the mouth cover deal and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u208	Not to my best knowledge. I haven't asked her yet, but I can't imagine. Finance had no role in this either, and as a member of the same party I had no role in it in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u209	What about the financing of the mouth cover deal, with the participation of Finance in the LCH?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u210	Again, I have just indicated that I think it is wise to await that investigation that is being carried out by the VWS Department under the direction of the Minister for Medical Care. That's just gonna be an independent investigation. In that we can all read it back. We all have at least a very uncomfortable feeling about it. At the same time, I am sure that there has been personal interference at that level from the Treasury and certainly not from me. The only thing I think is that many Members of Parliament recognize that, in that first phase, I received calls from many members of the Cabinet, but I also think that many Members of Parliament received calls from the current bank about 'there is a lot of mouth caps'. In fact, a few months ago I got a phone call from someone who said: it's very crazy, but I can do it in the United States, if I remember correctly. It was someone with an excellent reputation, whose name I can't tell you about here, buying millions of extra vaccines. Of course, VWS is trying to figure that out and it didn't turn out to be. That is the period in which we found ourselves with each other, but also more recent and then with regard to tests and vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u211	Thank you. In view of the time, I would like to ask the Minister to go through his story a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u212	Faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u213	I also hear some repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes I also find MPs on my way and I try to serve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u215	Yes. Mr Azarkan, for his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u216	I understand that it is, of course, difficult from the Minister's point of view when Members of Parliament occasionally...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u217	No, no, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u218	He meant it crazy, with a wink, that he encounters them occasionally on his way. Mr. Chairman. I have also drawn attention in my speech to a motion that has been voted in Chambers. That motion said a year ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u219	There I have... I must not interrupt Mr. Azarkan, Mr. Chairman. So I'm gonna shut up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u220	Yes. Maybe it'll be a repeat. I was curious to see whether this motion had received attention or whether the Minister thought at some point: that motion was voted in Chambers, but it is all hands on deck and I simply can't do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u221	On the contrary. Of course we did and we were already doing that. I have just mentioned Mr Azarkan, and I have also made a reference to this in response to a question put by Mr Heinen. Of course we wanted to do that and this is part of it. I thought the motion was quite right and it helped in some sense, because it was an extra title to draw attention to this issue. But of course it was also a phase in which the fire raged the most fiercely. It is quite right that the Chamber asked for it at that time, and we really went ahead with it. However, I also think it is understandable that the degree of intensity in which it landed, for example at VWS, has been different from that in a normal year. I would like to quote the comparison with how, in 2018 and 2019, I repeatedly addressed cabinet members and finance officials about shortcomings and unlawfulness. In 2020, I did not do this structurally, but I did do so specifically when it came to corona. That's the kind of year it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u222	Then let me turn it around. If the Minister of Finance looks back now, he says: given the circumstances, this is the best thing we could have done, but I should perhaps have informed the Chamber earlier and taken a number of points more clearly into account in the particular circumstances that prevented us from always resolving the deficiencies or allowing us to contract legally? How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u223	I think you should always be critical of what you've done yourself. It's really too easy to look back and say: it was all pico bello okay. Too many things could have been better for that. I just want to be honest about that. I also think that you should take what this means for the future very seriously. I think some of those things are easily better arranged. Again, I'm not trying to narrow it down. Take the whole bulk that was about not informing the Chambers properly, especially the Upper Chamber. You have to take that very seriously, but that's actually relatively easy to solve, because that means you have to ram it into the departments that if an occasional sup is sent and it's in a hurry, they can't sit on their hands until the Lower House sends it to the First Chamber. No, if that money is already spent during the ride, then the department itself must act. That is what the departments should be concerned about, and we should be concerned about that. We must make it clear to the departments that, even if it almost never happens, they must not forget it. There is a role there. What I do maintain myself is that in the context of last year there really was a man and power look at how we are going to take good care of it, now that the need is literally to the man, in the first place in the material world. On the formal side: VWS has been printed on it. VWS has done his stinking best. I understand why things went the way they did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u224	Thank you. Maybe it's good to finish this block and then go to the taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u225	Mr. Chairman. To reassure you, I am almost done with block one: budget law and the Compatibility Act. I want to say one or two more things about what we're gonna do differently and better. A speaker took that expression in his mouth. We all enjoyed Mr Snels' contribution. He made a nice comparison in his own right. He said: doing an invention is not necessarily groundbreaking; it is not so much about an eurekament, but rather about taking small steps every day towards something better. I have to think of a beautiful anecdote about Edison, which we all know as the brilliant inventor of the light bulb. That man has tried a lot of things that have failed. Then he walked satisfied to his assistant, who asked what his day was like. Then he said great, because I found the 10.531st way not to invent the light bulb. Then he moved on. I think it's really bad at doing a few things structuralally. There will be the structural programme improvement financial management ministry of VWS. Finance is also involved in and monitoring the implementation of that programme. Mr Nijboer was right to ask. We're going with extra FTEs that support financial function. That is a deeper intervention, but I can also see some relief in the regular management of all these matters. This must be done partly in the Chamber, partly politically, i.e. in the cabinet and in one-to-one meetings with the Minister of Finance, and also in the administration. I think it's really a joint responsibility. In that cycle, it needs to be improved step by step. Mr. Chairman. You had asked me not to repeat myself, so I assume that in this very large first category I did what I had to do. Then I come to a few things about the tax arrangements. To reassure you, Mr President, the following blocks are considerably shorter. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van Dijk... I now think that I must distinguish between the two Van Dijken in the room. Mrs Van Dijk, Mr Grinwis and Mr Snels......................................................................................................................................................................................... In itself, I understand that question, but there are really a few nuances possible. The first nuance is that these things are mentioned every year in an annex to the Millions Note. They also lend themselves to a political debate with me or with the Secretary of State for Finance, or to a debate in any capacity. All evaluations are also sent to the Chamber. Last year, a review of all these evaluations also ended up in the Chamber. In addition, we need to go through the review framework for existing and new tax regimes, so as to respond to the question of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the scheme. I would add the following. The uncomfortable reality is, of course, that political parties, whatever their efficiency, have certain wishes that they want to shape through taxation. I understand that style figure in itself. It's not like my own party would never have been guilty of that. This is actually true of the full width of the spectrum. I think that's kind of the elephant in the room, too. We may find those arrangements complicated in their entirety, but it will only become really complicated if you have to take care of and pick out the arrangements you love most. However, I very much agree with the Court that the application of the review framework can be improved. I will therefore, in my role as Minister of Finance too, make greater efforts to ensure, in future, that the review framework for new tax arrangements is applied in budgetary decision-making in particular and that evaluations are always carried out which take account of the budgetary side. I will also endeavour to bring it to the attention of the Chamber. Finally, I understand that in his report the Study Group on Budget Space has made homework on the budgetary control of fiscal arrangements. That too is sometimes the subject of political debate; let me sum it up in this way. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Van Dijk also asked about compliance. I think I have said a number of things about this. I have also answered the questions about the review framework. Mr Van Raan specifically asked about the agricultural exemption. Of course, this arrangement has attracted its particular interest, and I can imagine this immediately in view of its political orientation. Over time, this agricultural exemption has been examined several times. Different Cabinets have also made the balancing effort to maintain that arrangement. You can weigh that differently in terms of efficiency and you can weigh it politically differently. I know exactly how Mr Van Raan weighs it. The shortest way to do something about tax regulations that you don't like is to participate in the formation. That's a little lame, but I think it is. That is where these things are discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u226	That raises a question for Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u227	Mr President, I am going with Mr Klaver to see the informant tomorrow, but I understand that we are also taking Mr Van Raan with us!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u228	We'll check in tomorrow! I suggest that the CDA first participates in the formation itself, but that aside. Look, apart from the political differences that are not so interesting at the moment, it is about what the Court of Auditors has said about it. And he really says: the exemption had a fiscal purpose, but since the amendment, that tax goal has come to an end, and the agricultural exemption has been an instrument without a clear objective for 20 years. So regardless of whether you agreed with the purpose of the instrument, the goal is not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u229	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u230	So we do not agree on whether or not you should have an agricultural exemption, but that is not the point. That's not the point. The point is that the goal is not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u231	I'll make it worse. This is not the only tax regime on which the Court of Auditors draws such a kind of conclusion. In fact, for a lot of EUR 300 billion we are spending, the Court of Auditors is quite critical of it, but we are just doing what we did last year. However, looking through real political glasses, I have added that, however much I can follow this analytically in substance from the Court of Auditors, those views on efficiency, which I do not disagree with for a very large part, in this house run counter to the laws of political gravity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u232	The laws of political gravity: that of course is not an answer at all. Again, the point is that the Court of Auditors finds that the objective is not clear. In fact, she notes this about some 116 schemes, but the question was specifically about this. Whether you agree with the political background of that arrangement or not, the Court of Auditors says so! Does the Minister agree or does he disagree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u233	I've been trying to outline how I look at this in full width. Let me add one more thing. Quite apart from the question of whether or not I like the subject, I, as Minister of Finance and also as a politician, have much more discomfort from an arrangement that does not seem to work than from an arrangement that seems to work. This also applies to all kinds of budgetary expenditure. Sometimes there are budgetary expenditures on issues that I personally consider to be extremely important, but with which you do not achieve the effect you would like to achieve. Let me do this and commit to Mr Van Raan. I have just said a number of things I can do, which we can do in the Millions note or we can do in informing the Chamber. Should there ever be any danger of formation in this country, let me say from my role as Finance Minister that I will also share with the informant this very piece of homework. As far as I am concerned, this would be a broader question of the effectiveness of schemes. You should look not only at tax regulations, but also at things that the Court of Auditors has said about effective policies on the expenditure side. All sorts of things have appeared about this in recent years. I'd like to do that. She or he may bring that to the attention of the forming parties, but it is ultimately up to them to do something with it or not. I tried to say that with "the laws of political gravity." Mr Van Raan understood that secretly, of course, from a to z.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u234	Let's see, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u235	Mr. Chairman. First, I need to talk to you about whether this counts as an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u236	Sure, there's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u237	Well, look, there's no answer. The question is very simple. Does the Minister agree with the Court's assessment of this particular arrangement, namely that the objective is not clear? That was just one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u238	I understand Mr. Van Raan. He wants a more concrete answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u239	I refer Mr Van Raan to my previous reply. It is quite simply because of the balance I have just outlined, including in terms of efficiency. And I very much agree with a number of things. I think there's a lot of beautiful decisions in all these generous commitments. Mr. Chairman. I have stayed with a number of small things, which are not so small in the sense of importance, but in the sense that the pile that hits corona is a little thinner. They're not specifically about the imperfections. Mr Heinen referred to something he had read in a newspaper article about a part of a discussion that would have taken place in the cabinet. Let me relieve him of the idea that we would like to do something to radiate urgency. That's not one of the markers from the Treasury Department to spend money on. There has, of course, been a discussion about the terrible problem that children have had learning disadvantages. It is very sad that these are often children with parents who are much less able to provide tutoring in holidays and so on. How do you make sure you do that in a sensible way? Of course, that has been a real discussion. You want that money to be spent responsibly, but you don't want us to catch up until 2030. 'Cause then you just know it's not gonna happen. Of course, as a cabinet, and also as a civil servant, we have puzzles on it. A group of this discussion has achieved a newspaper article which Mr Heinen has read and which I have not read.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u240	I did not realize that the subject of taxation was completed so quickly. So I'm going to put my last question to that. The Court of Auditors has actually mentioned three things on which the Minister of Finance did not adequately exercise his supervisory financial function. The first was that the Council of Ministers should see the documents sooner. "They'll take care of that" I don't count on "everything standing." The second was VWS, which we discussed extensively. The third was the tax arrangements. The Minister of Finance needs to see if the review framework is a bit efficient and efficient. Those taxes are from his own department. Then the tears jump into your eyes. Chapter 4, on the schemes examined, states "no" or "in part" everywhere. That's what all the important, relevant questions say. Last year's biggest tax issue, the BIK, isn't even listed here, but I can put on a note that it's also seven times no. The Court of Auditors, of course, says that the Minister of Finance must also ensure that the money is not thrown into the ditch, but that something happens to it. That's not gonna happen. How does the Minister look at that knowingly? What does he think it means to his authority in expenditure departments? That's what they're thinking: at Finance itself, they're throwing away one tax scheme after another that's empty or not effective, so let him start with himself before he gets to us. That is what I would do, if I were your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u241	That moment may still be decided in the future. That's what Mr Nijboer and I are going to talk about again. In itself, it's a fair question. I'm not so worried about what one does for the look on the other. I don't think that's how it works. I think Mr Nijboer's question is justified. Are you okay or not? That is why I have just said a number of things about how I think you could deal even better with the review framework. We all understand a bit of the inconvenience of the discussion around the BIK. At the same time, I still think it is justified afterwards that one party, in particular, is looking for a way not to do something about the Vpb, but to stimulate investment. That wasn't an easy search. I don't tell a big secret about that. Eventually we came up with something we thought: this holds the right middle between what can and what needs to be done. We then came to the conclusion that we still believe that the Secretary of State sent a proper note on this last week, but that the Commission has views on state aid. We then took the Awf's path. I understand very well what Mr Nijboer has to say, and I think that there is a task ahead of me. I also want to do something with that review framework. I mean that without being faint, Nijboer will recognize that as well. That was also the answer just in the direction of Van Raan. Sometimes things happen in a coalition because parties attach a great deal to it, regardless of their own views on efficiency. That is part of the political debate, I say more generally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u242	Thank you. Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u243	I briefly referred to what was said at some point about Education and about whether or not specific allocation of funds. We have just had the good news that there is a fine amount going to education. It's just that that's not supposed to happen. It's not specifically allocated. Because that's a recurring phenomenon, I'm curious how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u244	This can be read in Mr Slob's letter. Maybe it's a letter from Slob and Van Engelshoven together, but I think it's Slob alone. This includes the issues of catching up with those whose field and ministry think it is effectively spent. That has also been quite a discussion with the field. Slob also had a debate on this with the Chamber, I think earlier this week. I am sure he has done so much better than I can do as a mid-song in this debate. I would therefore like to refer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u245	I understand that as far as substantive choices are concerned, but I have been listening to the Minister of Finance all evening and I am very much looking for where this Minister is at some point a little... Let me put it another way: my father was an accountant and that makes me a very strict financial upbringing. Not that I'm sticking to that, but I've had it. I'm looking for that energy with the Minister of Finance. It is very nice what he is saying, but it is the Minister of Finance who has to answer here at the moment. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u246	I'm gonna take this with both hands. I've never been able to reach the level of accountant. I've ever let myself slip that I'm more of a merchant than an accountant. If I add up all the blames I've been getting for the past four years, it's not key that I was too flexible. And then I say it carefully. This also applies to many of these issues. I would be happy to be told by the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to join the Court of Auditors in saying that there are all kinds of tasks for the department, for me, for the Council of Ministers, also for the future. There are things that don't go well enough and need to get better. I would have said this if, with the imperfections and the injustices, the trend had gone down, because then I would still think: why are we not 10, 20 faults lower? That would still be my ambition. I dare to say that I have been on top of that for the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u247	I can imagine that Mr Hoekstra does not get that reproach very often. It's not just about being tough, it's about the moments when you're tough. We are discussing the Court of Auditors' report here today. If I were the Court of Auditors, I would translate the report as follows: you have not been strict enough at the right moments and the right places.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u248	That is why I have really tried to indicate that we take the feedback contained in it very seriously and that you cannot separate it from the context. That is why I wanted to sort that out in what is to be found under that hood, literally at a time when the need was for the man and the departments of VWS but also of Finance and EZK were working seven days a week to solve this. I say to Mrs Simons that I will immediately try to be strict at the right moments. If I'm in that cabinet at some point with her and Mr Nijboer, we can see if that's going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u249	I appreciate the answer, but I'm happy to turn it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u250	I didn't mean the next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u251	I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u252	Then I'll have a fight with the CDA group right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u253	I'm asking the Minister to finish his story now. If there are any questions left, there is a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u254	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think I know what you're trying to say to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u255	Think of it as an incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u256	I think I gave the answers on efficiency and referred to the debate on education. Mr Alkaya's question on the bonuses in the business summit just answered the Prime Minister, and I did so last week. I hope that's what he's served with. I would like to add one more thing. I believe that companies that have received corona aid and have had an excellent year have received something that they were formally entitled to. But actually, they should all recite Auping. That was not the spirit of the arrangement, so it has to be repaid. But that is a different palette from what Mr Alkaya, quite rightly in my opinion, asked for. Mr Stoffer also had a motion from last year. He is somewhere in the corridors to prevent improper use, something similar to Mr Azarkan's justified question. Of course, we have also looked at this. We've come up with audit reports, with ex post checks, with samples. This means that the aid measures are less waterproof than the average scheme we are proposing. A department quietly takes 9 or 18 months to complete a normal arrangement, not 20 or 30 days. I think I have answered Mr Van Houwelingen's question on accountability. Then I'll be in broad prosperity. Mr Snels, Mr Snelter, Mr Grinwis, and certainly Mr Van Raan, will look back with satisfaction on what we have been doing in this dossier, which we have been doing for at least four years during the debate on responsibility but also in many other debates. We've made progress on that. I hope they have experienced that I did not hang on to the brakes, quite the contrary. I have always wanted to point out what can and what can be done in what period, but I have tried to see how you anchor that, because I see the added value of that. It's a comprehensive concept, though. It's about social contacts, about mental and physical health, about social inequality. Mr Heinen still had some of his own ideas that should appear in them. Mr Snels also had it. I believe that others decide first and foremost what they include in it and that they decide whether or not it is measurable. To all the questioners who had a few things of their own to turn in to the planning agencies, I say that I will always ensure that the thoughts of the Chamber land there. Then it is up to the agencies to decide whether or not to lay an egg there. Then I can inform the Chamber about that. I think that's fancy. Another question from Mr Van Raan, and I think Mrs Van Dijk too, was: how quickly can it be done? Every time there is an adjustment or a question, I will record it with the planning agencies. They always point out to me and to my department that I have to be realistic in what I threaten to promise the Chamber because integrating insights into the budget helps, of course, but it is not easy and that all kinds of things are quite difficult to measure. I sense a lot of interest in the theme, but it's not all encrypted in the pieces for Princess Day tomorrow and ripe for policy interventions. Mr Sneller asked if we were taking measures to integrate the monitor and dashboard of the planning agencies into the policy cycle. We're working on that, too. In addition, at the beginning of the year, the planning agencies developed a plan of approach to develop the dashboard with broader welfare indicators. On Monday 14 June, I think the planning agencies will give a technical briefing on this matter to the Chamber. It says in my text that a technical briefing is being given, so I assume that's up to the Chamber. What is being done with it is ultimately up to a next cabinet, but my suspicion is that there will be broad enthusiasm for it. I think that Mr Van Raan's question on animal welfare in the monitor has been answered in general. Mr Van Raan also asked whether it was necessary for broad prosperity to be part of the standard training offer, such as the renowned Public Finance Training for Higher Officials. On this subject, I can inform him that the National Academy of Finance, Economics and Business is planning to set up a separate programme, alongside the existing SMEA programme. Such training will focus on the impact of policies or investments on broad prosperity. So it's actually being served before he's been able to ask the question properly. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm in the other category. Mr Van Raan asked if I agree with him that tax structures are a Dutch export product. I wouldn't put it that way. I would like to refer to our previous exchanges of views on this subject. I see him making a hand gesture, which he can actually justify. Then there was the question: I believe that Mrs Simons is prepared to deal with the mortgage interest rebate at this stage. Aside from the missionary status of the cabinet... I saw the Prime Minister walk purple when this question was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u257	That, by the way, was a question from Mrs Gündoğan from VOLT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u258	I'm sorry, I made a mistake. I didn't write it. But it would be crazy if the answer changed. The answer remains the same. I must also try not to let the outgoing cabinet fall apart in parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u259	Mrs. Gündoğan has there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u260	I hear some kind of buzzing sound on my right, so I think that's about how far I could go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u261	I'm curious about the reasons. Political gravity, I suspect the answer might be. But I graduated from physics, and I think that's where you learned about laws. However, I have never heard of political laws. I wonder what the explanation of this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u262	Now I'm getting my number right. It's true. I also graduated physics. That's not what this was all about. It is true that this cabinet has agreed on a whole range of issues, including the mortgage interest deduction and how you should look at this in the light of tax rates. At that time steps were taken, but they did not include the abolition of the mortgage interest rate deduction. For this appointment, but also for many other matters on which two or three parties may think differently from another party in the cabinet, I really think it is fair to say that you are not trying to get it done in the missionary period. That is not obvious for a outgoing cabinet, from a constitutional point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u263	I'd like to continue with that. Germany held elections in September and Germany submitted its plans for the reform of the Corona Restoration Fund for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u264	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u265	So Germany just does it. Why would the Netherlands postpone such a thing, which Klaas Knot said last week that it was good to reduce the mortgage interest rate deduction, with the risk that we will also miss the third deadline to submit the plans for Europe and thus also miss 6 billion? For me, it sounds very strange and not logical not to do any of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u266	I would like to free Mrs Gündoğan from one concern, namely that we are now in danger of being late with the 6 billion. I would like to assure you that we will inform the House of that again. I will ask the Minister of Economic Affairs, or I will do so with him. My information is that this money can simply be raised until 1 April next year, provided that you submit plans to that effect. Mr. Chairman. It is true that the mortgage interest rate deduction is one of the topics to be found in the CSRs, the country-specific recommendations, or country-specific recommendations in good Dutch. That's not the only thing. You should agree on that. I was just making a comment about the mortgage interest deduction, because I think it fits with the relations and constitutional position of a outgoing cabinet. With regard to the money from Brussels, I am not concerned that we are missing the boat by taking a little more time for this. I really don't think that's going on. If Mrs Gündoğan has information I don't have, of course I would like it very much. Because I want that money, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u267	My last interruption, Mr. Chairman. I want to go along with this, but I want an intermediate date. This formation could take a very long time. If we link this to the formation, we can spare the boat. In that respect: prepare for the worst and hope for the best, so to speak. On what date, when there is still no outcome of the formation, can I expect you to allow us to work on this missionary after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u268	It's a fair question. I am going to give a more precise answer, but I think that at least somewhere in the third quarter the outgoing cabinet should measure the position of the crop with regard to formation, and in particular with regard to this point. Does this mean that we are taking action on this as a missionary cabinet anyway? No. I do think it means that you have to make a judgment about how far the formation has progressed. Mrs Gündoğan is already concerned that the formation has not progressed very far. We will then perhaps take steps in dialogue with the Chamber. By the way, you don't necessarily have to take it in Q3. You could do that in Q4 too. I find it prudent to ask yourself that question as a missionary cabinet at least in Q3. I'm gonna tell her I want to share that with the Room. This would then be done in consultation with forming parties, who would be there by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u269	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u270	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raan referred to the black swan. That black swan was in my last Prince's Day speech. I have already tried to do justice to that very feeling of him. I also said that Mr Taleb himself did not think the corona crisis was a black swan, because he had seen it coming. There were more people who saw her coming. I just said I didn't see her coming. I don't know if I was the only one. Mr. Van Raan must have been with those who did. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Dijk was right to ask about Article 3.3 CW and pilots. Thank you for that. She is absolutely right when she says that the quality of the underpinning of policies at the front also determines how well we can determine afterwards whether something has been effective and effective. This has always been a focus of attention in this cabinet period, and the two rapporteurs in particular know that. I see that from my system of responsibility. In the end, the Chamber decides whether the explanatory statement is good enough. It is possible that the Chamber says something is unbearable. Moreover, the rapporteurs in particular can inspire the Court of Justice to do so. That certainly has a hygiene effect in it. The Prime Minister replied to the questions put by Mr Van Dijck and Mr Alkaya on the child care allowance. Mrs Van Dijk asked about the housing market and private debt. That's a fair point. House prices are rising fast. Much has been done about financial stability, especially by the previous cabinet. I'm not talking about the missionary, I'm talking about the previous cabinet. In the end, the solution to a more stable situation in the housing market is that we all want; I don't have a party that doesn't hear calling for a lot of extra supply. Frankly, all the steps you take that fall into another category, such as redistributing or doing what prices do, are not a solution to the fundamental issue of too few homes. As far as I am concerned, that is what a new cabinet really has to do. I would like to put Mr Nijboer's question on ICT to the State Secretary of BZK, with your permission. The BIK I discussed with Mr Nijboer. I hope that Mr Alkaya will agree with that, not so much in the BIK, but in what I said about the exchange of views. Mr Van Dijck asked what the cabinet would do, cut or invest. I really want to refer to my previous answers. The most important thing you can do, in my opinion, is to make the economy run, because that will also put public finances in order. At the same time, I do not think that you need to make massive investments to reinvigorate that economy, because almost all economists say that the economy is going to turn really fast in the near future, and that is what has actually started when the tens of billions out of the savings jars are going to find their way to shopping streets and cafes, apart from what needs to be done in structural terms for the economy. Mr Van Dijck asked if I should interfere with the billing of the NAM. No, that's really up to the Secretary of State and the Minister of EZK. Mr Sneller asked about the re-establishment of the National Expenditure Commission. Actually, he asked, "What do we do with that?" At least that's how I understood him. That is, of course, up to the Chamber, but I am pleased about it and I am happy to discuss it. I think it's just working. Mr Grinwis has updated me again on the Rhineland model. By the way, he's a lot better at Kant than I am. I agreed with him again. Mrs Gündoğan asked not only about the mortgage interest rate deduction, but also about the 8% of GDP that should be spent on education. I think that is an inspiring idea in itself, but to put it in perspective: that would be 44 billion structural money. That is a lot more than the education budget now covers. So we will have to look at where we are getting this 20 billion structuralally. But I might hear that in second term. Mr Stoffer spoke about encouraging own financing and reducing the dependence on public money. Yeah, I agree. At the same time, I believe that the main route of support has been the sensible one. Mrs Den Haan asked if attention was paid to the cultural and change path at VWS. Yeah, I'm sure. I think she is making a very valid point there. You can change all kinds of procedures and rules, but in the end it is a relative soft marker as culture. That's just talking to each other about behavior, I've always learned. What's going well? What could be better? How can I help you? Why did this work or didn't it? I very much agree with that. We will also continue to look at this lens, not only as a financial institution itself, but also as a wider one. Mr Eerdmans asked more broadly: how do we get value for money? That's a fair question. I very much share what many here sometimes say, that Dutch people don't mind paying taxes at all, as long as they get quality back. That is exactly what goes much more wrong in the Netherlands than in other countries. See also the Operation Understanding Quality and see also the findings of the two rapporteurs. There is an obligation for a future cabinet........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is this worth the citizen's money? Because what we spend is not our own money, but money that Dutch people have earned with hard work. Mrs Van der Plas asked if I could specify all costs per citizen. Of course, I can do that on a number of subjects. However, I would like to point out that her sum on money that would not have any receipts and that 5 billion is not right. The Prime Minister has already explained that the amount of 5 billion is about very different unlawful acts and that the vast majority of that amount is true that there are receipts. But it was about the procedurally correct passage of the route, in particular the First Chamber. I have read here that Mr Van Haga asked a question about the exposure of the Netherlands to the ECB's policy, but I think this should be Mr Ephraim. That goes very far out of context. With regard to the exposure to the PEPP, I cannot mention the amount, but that is something I am very happy to explain in more detail with him during one of the Ecofin debates. Mr President, I think I have come almost to the end of my first term. Mr Ephraim has left the building again, so I congratulate him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u271	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u272	Mr. Chairman. Chairman? You'd almost think I'd like to hear myself talk, but I don't think the rest of you understand me. It always looks weird when people watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u273	The mic's working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u274	It is about whether it can be established that the equipment, the equipment ordered by VWS, has also been delivered. I heard Mr Rutte say that it may not have gone well, but it has all been delivered. Mr Hoekstra says the same thing. But I really read in the conclusions of the General Court that they simply cannot establish whether they are...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u275	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u276	... because it was delivered directly, without a receipt being issued for it. So where do Mr Hoekstra and Mr Rutte get the conviction that all the material has been delivered?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u277	It is right that Mr Azarkan should ask for this. I'd like to peel it off. I've been trying to sketch out that if you look at what went wrong, not by a long shot all those unlawful acts, which we take very seriously, of the same heaviness, are of the same weight. Sometimes more serious things have gone wrong and sometimes less serious things. For some of the irregularities, Mr Azarkan's point is: have the goods been delivered or not? Mr Azarkan is right that there is certainly a category of items that the Court of Auditors cannot determine whether they have been delivered. That doesn't mean that those things weren't delivered anyway, but there's no information on that. So VWS really needs to go after that. I hope I made that clear with this. It's not like I'm saying it was all delivered and it went well. No, absolutely not. There's just work. But in very practical terms: only the fact that the delivery note is not available does not mean that it is not delivered, but it means that it is not delivered verifiablely. So there's homework to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u278	Sure. With that in mind, I understand exactly what the Minister is saying: if there is no receipt, it can still be that delivery has been made. By the way, and that is something that I do not think Mr Hoekstra has quite right, it says that a large proportion of the purchased goods have often been delivered directly. It is not so much that "a part" cannot be found to have been delivered, but of "a large part." That may well be the case, but it is not in accordance with the procedure for the General Court of Auditors, nor with the way in which we award contracts within the public authorities. So you don't know. Mr Hoekstra, as well as Mr Rutte, cannot therefore say with certainty that these materials have been delivered. The same applies to tests that have been taken. Is the administrative organisation in such a way that it can be said with certainty that it has been properly tendered?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u279	I will check the numbers in a moment, but what Mr Azarkan says is absolutely correct. I would add that the Court of Auditors also says that every time you make an exception to the normal procedure, you have to specifically motivate it. VWS has generally motivated that. I do not want to condone that, because I think that criticism is justified. At the same time, I also understand that people have thought at some point: we make seven days a week once and we stick it to every exception. Again, that did not go well and it should have gone differently, but it is also understandable. That is what I would like to add. The second thing I would like to add is that there will probably be examples of this, but I do not have any factual information on things that may not have arrived at all. I did not just read another quote from Mr Kuipers and from a number of others, but they say: go on, if you want to buy your stuff this way, you pay too much and if you have to do it at an airport tens of thousands of kilometres away, things happen and parties are stolen. There are also places guarded by the police. I just mentioned the example of the crooks I heard about. That was the time. Such examples, I say with regret, are likely to surface.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u280	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for his comprehensive answer. I'll take a look at the MPs. We can suspend for dinner break now or we can give the floor to the Secretary of State. I would suggest that we give the floor to the Secretary of State and then suspend for dinner break. I can see that that can count on approval. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Members for their input in the first term. I understand that you all have no problem starting dinner at 9.30 p.m., so thank you for the opportunity to answer. You can just leave, I can't. I would actually like to deal with three blocks and then answer a number of questions. Since there have not been so many questions, it is nevertheless good to clarify some of the issues, where the Minister of Finance has a little more limited, for my part. This is about the state-wide management in general. This is about ICT and information security. This is about the sustainability of business. In addition, a number of questions have been asked about the real estate of the Defense Department, which I will take care of. I am very proud to say that in the past year, in a very difficult time, the government has actually adapted very quickly and very well to the situation in which we have all gotten involved. It was a real crisis. It was a health crisis, but it was also a crisis in which everyone had to do things differently than in the years before. A number of you have already said it in the debate: it is also a very nice moment afterwards. We have not quite finished the evaluations yet to see how to do things differently and better. You usually do that one step at a time. Now all of a sudden everything had to be done. That was accompanied by things that went very well. That was also accompanied by things that could be better. But most of all, we've learned a lot of lessons. I think it was Mr Snels who said the same thing. We were able to apply those lessons immediately. I would also like to pay great tribute from this place to all government officials. Of course, this applies to all the people in the Netherlands who have contributed to it, but I am specifically responsible for the government officials. In these difficult circumstances, they have made their best efforts to their credit and conscience, which has led to a great deal of rapid progress. A number of examples have already been mentioned by the Chamber. Let's take a look at what that organization's been up to for the past year. One had to work at home at another time. It was a lucky accident that we had the systems in order, so we could. The people were able, with the exception of those who really fulfilled a vital function to be performed at the workplace, to work very quickly from home. Before that we had facilities ready in the form of the digital infrastructure. It actually worked, with a few minor comments, very well. I am glad that in recent years, also on the basis of reports from the Court of Auditors, investments have been made in this good digital infrastructure. It also led to very large social effects. What does it do to people when they have to work from home and they don't see their colleagues anymore? We are all social beings and from one day to the next you are sitting in your room in Webex with colleagues and that against the backdrop of another crisis that would come next, that of the childcare allowance, where it was of course also the question of whether there was any real contact. Is there any way to have real contact in this digital world? Despite the crisis we were in, opportunities have nevertheless been found, including in a state-wide sense, to bring service to the citizens. Although it is not the subject of this debate, I can announce that we have taken a number of measures and have made plans to work towards the future, based on the lessons we have learned, with the working environment for the future, with hybrid works, in whatever form. I am really convinced that we must take advantage of the lessons that have happened to us all and not just turn to business as usual and fall back into our old behavior. I think we could really get the good things out of this structuralally. Looking at the way we have all done this and the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in it, I note that we have been able to do this mainly with conviction and good cooperation. I do not have a Compliance Act, which has, of course, been quoted a lot today, on the basis of which I was able to do so, but there was just a broad conviction that we were all going to do it. In that conversation, in that consultation, we're still sitting. I am pleased with that, and I believe in it, because in the end, not only the experience of the departments, but also of the people who have done that work mean that we are going to do things differently and better. Then I'll get to the second block. That is ICT and information security. This is a difficult subject, which has been the subject of attention for many years, including from the Court of Auditors. This has to do with the fact that we are in a situation where on the one hand we are becoming increasingly dependent - and, on the other hand, corona has made that clear - of the fact that we need to digitally and at the same time the threats have increased. We're not in a static state. Every day, we have to keep our lines of defence in order, keep them in order, and with all kinds of government organisations, implementation organisations, co-governments, because, of course, criminals and other actors seek out the weaknesses and thus question the legitimacy and integrity of these systems. This is something we need to avoid, because citizens and businesses need to be able to trust that information and services are actually in the right hands of the public authorities and that all kinds of data are not compromised. When it comes to information security, we were also confronted with the Citrix crisis at that time. I welcome the fact that the Court of Auditors has made a positive comment on this. The Court of Auditors has, of course, the legal task of indicating where things are not going well, where there are shortcomings and where any objections are raised. Here, I think we have been able to show that what we had prepared also worked in practice. We learned from that again, so we can only do better. I thought it was a good example where you can see how, from the direction of steering, that steering is not based on legislation other than the Compatibility Act, which has worked well together several parts of the Empire, in particular the CIO Empire and the NCTV, to ensure that we could act on that very quickly. Nor did it cause any major problems. So that calls for attention all the time. In doing so, I do not have the expectation and illusion that all the shortcomings in this area will be resolved next year, without being able to complete next year's annual report, because there will always be new challenges. That is an additional need to give it from the Empire's side more than ever before the attention it deserves. Of course, your Chamber has already acted on this by setting up its own committee for digitisation. Then I come to sustainability. About this goal you could say: are you for or against sustainability? Even if you're against sustainability, it's still a very good goal to pursue, because it just pays off. It makes sure that we buy all kinds of products better, that we leave less behind and that it can often be cheaper. In my view, it should therefore be a supporter of doing so, even if I am looking in the direction of the Minister of Finance. If it delivers money or saves money, then that's something to pursue. There are many examples of this. Because of time, I will not go into detail about this now. It's something I think we should continue along that road. I would like to return to the specific questions raised in relation to the information security and management of the Empire. First of all, Mr Snels' question. He asked what BZK will do with the recommendation of the Court of Auditors to work more actively on the problems currently facing the shared service organisations, the agencies and the Zbos. That appeal from the Court of Auditors is in line with the approach I presented last year and sent to the Chamber by letter of September 2020. That approach was about the follow-up to the 2019 accountability report. This too is a subject that has been on the agenda for several years. At the moment a plan of approach is being drawn up at BZK for all shortcomings and concerns, as it should be. The monitoring of the shortcomings and concerns is an integral part of the Ministry's internal planning and control cycle. The weaknesses in purchasing management in two parts of a shared service organisation, UBR, have recently been resolved. In the other organisations, such as SSC-ICT and P-Direkt, we are also taking good steps to solve the problems identified. This also applies to the fact that signaling the problem just means that you are almost sure that in the years after you are working to solve it. This also applies to the route we are going through at SSC-ICT, which should be completed by 2022. The approach we adopt is supported by the General Court. Then there is a question from Mr Sneller. Referring to the fact that a Digital Affairs Committee was set up, he reminded me of a discussion that had previously been held in this Chamber about the usefulness or necessity of a state inspection digitisation. That was the Middendorp motion at the time. Mr Sneller wondered: "There was no national inspection. What are the alternatives? Has the mind stopped or is that going on?" We did have that discussion. We didn't choose a state inspection digitization. In the debate we have had on this subject, I indicated that the basis for that inspection is a very different one from the Compatability Act under which the National Finance Inspectorate operates, where financial management is concerned. We have chosen to control the provision of information to the State Service with a number of measures and to strengthen that provision of information. This means that the Decision CIO-system of the National Service 2021 has now entered into force. This enables us to steer and strengthen the management of the IV and ICT domains. We do this by, among other things, positioning the CIO at the board table. That may not seem very important, but that is an important element, because it makes an immediate contribution from the CIO at the heart of the decision-making process. In addition, the CISO, the new function we created, will also be more strongly positioned under the CIO. The cooperation between all the departmental CIOs in that CIO council should ensure that these experiences and knowledge in the departments get a place in the heart of business operations. We also do this with the quality framework for departmental information plans. That'll give you more unity. You do that in a natural way. You're gonna keep all that from being formally imposed right away. In this discussion, agreements are made on how the departments will work together. There is therefore a form of convergence which leads to more uniformity. That is not wrong in itself, because of course we are talking about one government. It would be weird if every department did it their way. But you do feel that there is such a thing as ministerial responsibility. That's gotta come together. That CIO Council and the ministerial responsibility laid down in the Constitution should not ultimately clash. We have also discussed this on several occasions in the cabinet. This is a line that is worn widely. For insight into the state of ICT in the government we have created a dashboard. We have said of this in the first instance: it is good to add projects that are currently in progress. Mr Sneller himself was one of those who said: "We should also include that management and maintenance, which may not be a part that gets all the attention in the beginning. This is perhaps at least as important; it involves a lot of costs." I have already promised you that we will have that operational at the beginning of 2022. I still keep that promise. The supervisory role of the ICT Examination Bureau, which has been established, I would like to remind you that for all those who are new to the Chamber of Representatives on the basis of the Elias Committee, a permanent advisory body is being transformed at this time. In addition to the tasks already carried out by BIT, this involves advising on maintenance and management activities. It will also play a more active role in knowledge transfer and new additional forms of advice. For example, you should think of official organisations, but it could also be in the direction of the Chamber. I expect to be able to consult the draft law on the establishment of this permanent advisory body within two weeks. So that's on schedule on its own. I would like to thank Mr Eerdmans for his compliments on the speed of the changeover. I just said something about that. I'm referring to the other work in the government. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's There is a whole palette of examples of what has gone well. At the same time, we know that some things can be better. For that, this debate is taking place: how can we avoid making the same thing as this year next year? Mr Snels asked where information security is going wrong: what are the risks and what lessons are being drawn? Mr Stoffer asked: how is the cabinet going to make a step harder in the area of information security and IT management? Mr Grinwis added the question of what we are going to do in practice in this area. The General Court notes that there are still many shortcomings in the field of information security. I'm not happy about that. But with that increasing threat level, which is not a static whole, the bar goes up. In the kind of race that is taking place, we must ensure that security is kept in order with good people and good techniques. That, of course, leads to shortcomings. In recent years, we've seen that the government is a target. This is not just about the government, but also about the other governments or semi-governments. It is believed that there is money to be raised and wants to cause unrest by disrupting and shutting down systems. This will lead to damage for citizens and businesses very quickly. That is why we are very committed to this. The new role of the CISO, the Chief Information Security Officer, is an English term, but "CISO" still sounds a little bit Dutch, is very important and not to be underestimated. The I strategy, which I have just referred to, must help to achieve this, of course. When I look back at the years that have passed, including the cooperation with the departments, I see that there have been real improvements. Because there are incidents on a regular basis, you don't really have to explain to anyone that this is something you have to invest in all the time. It's just keeping your security and defense in order, you might say. Then the very specific question about Webex. Because the government quickly switched to Webex's system based on the doubts about Zoom, the CIO Empire already carried out a national-wide analysis of the use of Webex in 2020. This allowed departments themselves to consider whether that system was appropriate for the activities they intended. This shows once again that you must be able to switch very quickly. Because of the platform we have created, we can and are in all departments people who know about such things and who can further strengthen each other. In that sense, in the light of what has just been said by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, we have had the opportunity last year to really test digitization from the government. Otherwise it would probably never have come about this way, so large-scale. It's become one big social experiment that everyone had to take part in. So we have a wealth of experiences that we can use to make the government better. With all the shit we've been through last year, that's a bright spot. Finally, Mr President, I come to the questions about the real estate. Among others, Mr Snels asked about the Court's assessment of real estate management. His statement is that no priority is given to this. In recent years, the Defense Department has invested 800 million more in real estate. So there has been attention to the real estate. But what has come to light is that the problems are much bigger than just some money. This has led to such an interdepartmental policy investigation, an ibo, where it has been noted that there are three areas where real estate needs to be put in order in the Defense Department. First of all, it is very important that the basis is in order. That sounds very open-door, but of course it's important: knowing where you have real estate has a lot of real estate.................................................................................................................................. Secondly, the imbalance that exists now between the available budget and the huge amount of real estate must be restored. That means that at the moment, the Defense Department is in the process of looking at how we can get that balance back in order. Otherwise, no matter how much money you put in it, you will never get a structural balance that is also politically acceptable. Finally, it is recommended to adapt the current real estate system by gradually transferring the property to the RVB. This point is currently being examined and further discussed. I can say to Mr Snels that the benefit-burden system he introduced into the debate is not so much the solution to the problem that Defence is now facing. You can have a debate about it; the Court of Auditors has also had discussions about it before, I know from the time I was still in the Chamber. I myself brought this up myself, but it's a pretty big operation and maybe it's the wrong medicine for the problem that's happening right now. But we're talking to the Defense Department right now, I say as responsible for the National Real Estate Company, about how this could be solved. Mr Sneller, Mr Grinwis and Mrs Den Haan also asked questions about real estate management and the critical notes that were cracked by the Court of Auditors. They ask me how, from my responsibility for the real estate, I can make this go better. Maybe it's good to explain what that formal position is like right now. For the Defense Department, real estate is a prerequisite for operating. They need barracks, airports, ports to carry out their duties. That's why it's of strategic importance to the Defense to always be able to control that property. At the moment, Defense formally owns the real estate and also the planning when the maintenance takes place and the prioritization in it. Defense real estate is also on the Defense budget. From the National Real Estate Company we are actually the job company of Defense; we are hired to carry out that maintenance on the basis of the plans made by Defense. We get a budget for that and when that budget is up, maintenance stops, because we too have to answer for what we are doing. Now it is being considered, in consultation with the directors of Defense, whether you can do this smarter, for example in line with what we have already done in recent years in the integration of the Rijksbouwsdienst and the Rijksbouwgoedbedrijf, that Rijksbouwingssystem. That is a system that has proven itself by now, so you could think of a modality that could also be useful for the Defense Department. Because real estate is not really the core business for Defence; that is, of course, the defence and protection of the Dutch and NATO territories. At the same time, we are now in a situation of resignation. So we will continue with the preparations, but this could be a subject that comes before the next cabinet for decision-making. I think that is a good thing, too, when we look at the critical notes that the Court of Auditors is cracking on this issue. This also applies: no one needs to be convinced that this is a problem, because it is quite clear that it is a major problem. So that has to be solved. Finally, towards Mrs Den Haan. The working relationship with Defence and the RVB is excellent, just for the sake of completeness. That brings me to the end of my reply. I would like to congratulate the three Members of Parliament who gave their maiden speech, which I enjoyed very much, and wish them every success in their duties as MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u282	Thank you. I would like to thank the directors for the first-term response. I'm suspending the sitting until 9 p.m. including dinner break, because that's what it's really about: dinner break. After that, I want to organise a second term with each other a little bit short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u283	The next item is the second time-limit for the House of Representatives for the year 2020. I would like to welcome once again the leaders in trade union K, as well as the MPs and the people in the public gallery. I said earlier today that it's nice to have visitors again, so thank you for coming. I want to agree with the MPs that everyone gets up to three minutes before the second term, so there's time to make some motions. They don't need to be made up, I'd like to add. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u284	I have five minutes, one third of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u285	I could, but I was just suggesting we give everyone three minutes. We can also do it very precisely. I think we have a majority for it. I call Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u286	I can do it in three, Mr. Chairman. There's been a question about Groningen. That was the debacle next to the childcare allowance, the victims in Groningen who are waiting for their compensation. 26,000 houses are waiting for the NAM. The NAM is being very difficult, I understand. The General Court also considered the costs to be disproportionate: €50,000 per house. The NAM refuses to pay it, because it says: "If you want to hire experts for that kind of huge amount of money, you have to know for yourself, but we are not going to pay it. That has nothing to do with the earthquake damage." €1 in damages means €0.56 in costs. I'd like to have another reaction to that. Mr. Chairman, then Sywert van Lienden. The PVV still finds it incomprehensible that this mask gate is being pushed on the long track. We're afraid the investigation is actually pulling out the sting and it's being pushed a little ahead. The PVV wants the bottom stone above, because this mainly reeks of favoritism at the CDA. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a prominent CDA member has delivered 40 million mouth caps, which were not necessary, inadequate and far too expensive;]] [[calls on the Government to return these masks and to recover the millions paid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u287	There's not a word of Spanish in there. Is this motion sufficiently supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u288	We're not supposed to say that anymore. We have a new Rules of Procedure. So, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u289	I missed that for a while. Last week it was said, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u290	It's been a while, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u291	Last week I had four motions and I think... Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to present two more quotes from the State of the National Accountability to this cabinet. The first quote is: "Of the 50 imperfections we have found, 2 are serious. Firstly, the VWS Minister's financial management of expenditure to combat the coronapandemic crisis was seriously inadequate. This amounts to 5.1 billion public money which has been spent partly illegally on the purchase of protective equipment and ventilation equipment for healthcare establishments and on test materials." 5.1 billion and this prime minister is trying to downplay it to 500 or 600 million, but it's still 5.1 billion. That can be read back on page 9. Next quote. We believe that the Minister of Finance has failed in his role as supervisor, I read on page 38. And: We judge that he could have acted earlier on the issue of failing financial management and accountability at the VWS ministry. So this is where the finance minister gets his ass kicked, too. Therefore, to help him, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas according to the General Court of Auditors, the Minister of Finance has failed in his supervisory role and should have previously intervened in the failing financial management and accountability of the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America;]] [[calls on the Minister to draw up a plan of action to better implement the role of supervisor in the future and to forward it to the Chamber before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u292	So where else does the minister need things so that he can better fulfil his role as supervisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u293	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u294	Thank you. I have one motion, but before I go there, Mr Azarkan had another question, which I would like to answer in this debate. He wondered how Mr. Sneller knew my son before he knew me. I heard Mr Van Dijck right away calling for a DNA test, but since we, as financial spokesmen, also have to pay a little attention to the cost of care and not overloading the test capacity, I think it would be a good idea to clarify this. When I met Mr. Sneller in my first days as a Member of Parliament, he told me that our sons are in class together. I didn't even know that. While he said that, I thought "oops," because just before that I had a parent conversation because my son turned out to put his teeth in the arms of other sons when he was angry. But I did not tell Mr Sneller that. I'm afraid he's got that bite and that huge stubbornness of mine. It doesn't take a DNA test. I would like to apologise to Mr Sneller for the suffering he has suffered. Meanwhile he can talk and he has learned that it can also be done with words. Our little boys are playing very well now, even with abysses, so you can imagine how very proud Mr Sneller and I are. That is why I am proud to table a motion with Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u295	There was also a delivery on the highway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u296	Yeah, that's right. The Prime Minister says there was also a delivery on the highway, but that was with the second son. I understand that Mr Sneller will be a father again in two weeks, so we will follow each other at about the same pace. I'm proud to make a motion with him. Let that be an example. Even if we see the world differently, we can still bridge differences and come to solutions here together. At least if the cabinet is going to carry out the motion, but I'm assuming so. As far as this motion is concerned, I am also giving credit to Mrs Van Dijk. She had a similar motion, but in terms of efficiency she said: let's merge them. It's a few fine prints, but I'm gonna try. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the General Court of Auditors has found in the 2010 accounting documents that budget law has been violated several times by the fact that the parliament has been publicly informed several times not or late;]] [[noting that Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act provides that new policies may be implemented only after the Second and First Chambers have agreed to the budget, unless new policies "in the interests of the Empire" do not allow any delay;]] [[Calls on the Government to draw up a protocol on how departments can inform the Chamber of expenditure under Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act in a simple, uniform and rapid manner in times of crisis;]] [[invites the Government also to develop conditions on the basis of which this article can be invoked and how the House of Representatives is informed and to inform the Court of Justice of this later this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Heinen, Mr Sneller, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Grinwis and Mr Snels.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the cabinet for answering our questions. Whatever the Chamber has done, I have heard from various groups in different ways that they were asking for the same thing, namely to improve and to promise that illegal expenditure will be back below the norm next year. I have not yet heard from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance: yes, I promise that next year we will be below that 1% standard. Each time it is arranged afterwards. At KLM it was illegal and we made agreements afterwards to prevent that in the future. In the pandemic, they say we're gonna stick stamps and stuff. So that's what we're gonna do afterwards. But we are going to run into things this year that we do not foresee at the moment and we simply want to be able to assume that these expenditures will be done lawfully and that it will not be done afterwards. I'd like to hear if that commitment can still come through. Otherwise, we will be putting all this legislation into the committees and we will have to think about discharge. A lot has also changed about the BIK. Actually, I found it disgusting to hear that. Theoretically, we all agree, but when it comes to such a tax rebate for business, we get right back to the political reality, to the coalition, and I know a lot about it. This shows that, theoretically, we can have a lot of discussions, but in practice, when it comes to interests and business, there is often a choice to get money there, by any means, even if ultimately we are going to have an extremely complex system. Finally, Mr President. One more thing about the implementation organization. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance say they have a lot of confidence in that. The Court of Auditors is concerned about this, the National Ombudsman is concerned about it and the Socialist Party is concerned about it. So I'd be a little more concerned about that if I were one of these two gentlemen. I predict that's not going well. Anyway, we're gonna go through it together. I tabled a motion this morning and we are going to vote on it next week. Finally, I have a motion on the bonuses. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several directors of large companies receive high bonuses while their companies use corona support measures;]] [[considers that bonuses for drivers are immoral and unfair when a company receives state aid;]] [[Calls on the Government to keep a blacklist of companies that pay bonuses to their directors while claiming either a generic aid measure put in place by the government because of the corona crisis or receive company-specific aid, and to inform the Court of Justice of this list on a monthly basis;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude companies on this list from:]] [[trade missions and other trade promotion by public authorities;]] [[funding from the National Growth Fund;]] [[financing of Invest-NL and Invest International,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer. We are always a little behind the facts as spokesmen of government spending, but I always cling to the fact that we are at least chasing the tide. It was a good debate, I think. I am also pleased that in the end we have been able to tell the difference between'relative' and 'bagallising', and that in the end there is very clear that commitment comes to make a maximum effort to reverse that trend. There was still one question left, to the Minister of Finance, about the assessment of the Compatibility Act and its timetable. I believe that the motion tabled by Mr Heinen fits in, but that it should also be broader. Finally, the motion announced, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this year the General Court of Auditors has noted a serious deficiency at the Ministry of Defence and at the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport;]] [[Whereas the approach to these shortcomings should be taken seriously and vigorously and that the House of Representatives should be able to carry out its monitoring tasks in this respect throughout the year;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Court at least twice in the interim on progress in addressing these serious deficiencies;]] [[also invites the responsible ministers to send a proposal to the Chamber on the design and timing of these reports for the legislative consultation on the annual report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sneller, Mr Snels, Mr Heinen, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Nijboer, Mr Grinwis, Mr Azarkan, Mr Eerdmans and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u299	A chanceless motion!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u300	We have tried to strike the balance between additional burden of proof and additional reporting obligations, and we have really kept our finger on the wrist, as the Minister of Finance also described it. In this way, the ministers' colleagues can enter into the debate with our colleagues in the standing committee in which that debate is to be held, but they do not have to do so blankly. They'll have a proposal from the cabinet. I look forward to the proposals and how they go further between my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u301	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if you know the Judge's program. In it, suspects are on trial in court. I think that's a nice program to watch. The answer from the cabinet today kind of reminded me of that. I did drive too fast, but it was only a few kilometers and they really fall away from the administrative round. The Court of Auditors says that I ran a red light, but I really looked left and right and I could; the intersection was free. Yes, Madam Judge, I smashed my neighbor's head in, but his nose isn't broken and his head is still on it, so it could be. That is a bit the way the cabinet has answered today. The Court of Auditors has produced a rigorous report which states that the trend of unlawful acts has also gone far down. Of course, the corona crisis has increased that, but that trend has been falling for years. The number of imperfections has been increasing for years. The cabinet refers to the corona crisis and talks a lot about stamps, about the First Chamber and about what I know. That is not the underlying problem that has made the Chamber the biggest problem today, but it has been discussed most frequently. So I have two motions to get the cabinet back in the right direction. Because I want this problem not to be trivialized, but to be taken seriously. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Court states that there are 116 tax schemes involving EUR 111 billion;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness and effectiveness of not all of these schemes has been sufficiently substantiated;]] [[Whereas the abolition of tax arrangements may reduce the pressure on the Tax Administration;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to identify which tax arrangements can be removed responsibly in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u303	I have another motion on a more specific budget item. I have also supported a number of motions from colleagues. The motion is about the large private agreements the cabinet can make. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the cabinet's freedom to conclude binding agreements with private parties is great, such as the agreement on the broad lines that could be concluded with Shell, Exxon and NAM in advance at that time without the agreement of the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to identify how the Compliance Act can be amended so that the Court's budget law can also be strengthened for private contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u305	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are two points I would like to touch on in the second term. The first relates to the maintenance of the basis of financial management. The Minister says that we cannot take over from the departments. But keeping the base in order is his system responsibility. He says that if you constantly remind your people of something, they want you to think, "Next time I have to be ahead of it." He even said, "We have to put it in there." Maybe creating ownership is one of the solutions. It is, of course, a bit sad to note that this is apparently not enough. The motion in part No. 12: the basis on order. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the General Court has found that financial management is not in order in several departments;]] [[Whereas financial management within the government is essential to justify what happens to public money;]] [[Whereas departments which do not have financial management in order can learn from departments which do;]] [[Whereas the Minister of Finance, as system manager, oversees financial management within the government;]] [[calls on the Minister of Finance, on the basis of his system responsibility, to play a proactive and coordinating role in the exchange of best practices between departments on the bottlenecks identified by the General Court, and to report to the Chamber on the best practices and how other departments will tackle them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u307	The second point is whether we've done the right thing. I asked the Prime Minister for an answer to our story. We called for attention to be paid to social cohesion. As far as I am concerned, the answer was really too general and not very concrete. That's actually exemplary for what we talked about today. We invest, but whether we achieve our goals, do we actually not know or not enough, therefore the motion "have we done the right things?'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to be able to evaluate the effectiveness and effectiveness of expenditure in the context of national expenditure;]] [[Considering that the rationale of state policy often lacks measurable targets, while these alone can contribute to (understanding) an effective transfer of policies to the desired outcome;]] [[Considering that this is now a clear example of the National Education Programme of OCW, where 8.5 billion is spent without identifying the policy information needed to see whether the money is being spent properly and effectively;]] [[calls on the Government to establish that national policies, where possible and where appropriate and useful, contain measurable objectives for a better understanding of the effectiveness of the policy, to include clear instructions for this in the Integrated Weighting Framework for Policy and Regulation (IAK) and to inform the Chamber on how this principle will be secured nationally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u309	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was a fine motion by Mrs Van Dijk. It's about Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. Mr. Chairman. We have made a journey from Florence to Rome, to Wittenberg and to Koningsbergen, a journey through Europe, a journey through history and a journey through philosophical thinking. I always find that very inspiring. At the same time we also came back very quickly in the sober The Hague and we did textexegesis of the Compatibility Act. All in one debate! That was not for nothing either, because there were also a number of important issues on the agenda. It's about financial management at VWS. I signed Mr Sneller's motion with conviction, because the Chamber must also play a role in this. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for looking again at the powers he has and to see whether they are sufficient under the Compatibility Act. It was also very much about the Compatibility Act. I myself signed Mr Heinen's motion with bold letters. This is really about the House's budget law, about power and counterpower. If we let that go, we'll allow the cabinet to let that go. That is why we must be on our guard. So that is a very nice and important motion. Mr. Chairman. The illegalities in the obligations and expenditures are also very important. I understand that the cabinet is anecdotal about why Corona has contributed extra to that. At the same time, we are seeing a trendal deterioration in the legality of expenditure and obligations. That trend has been going on for about seven years. I think that we should also look at whether there are structural reasons for this and whether we can explain them. How come there's this trendy deterioration? That is why we made this motion very quickly during the break. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a trendal deterioration in the legality of expenditure and obligations;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine the causes of this trendal deterioration, which is the relationship with deficiencies in financial management identified by the General Court and the explanations for these deficiencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u311	This motion also comes from the idea that if you do not know why things are not going well, it is also difficult to solve them. I'm giving the Cabinet all the space to decide how it intends to conduct this investigation. I think it would be wise for the Ministry of Finance to do so itself, because then they will learn from it themselves. I still have time, Mr. President, so I would like to ask the Secretary of State for the Interior one more question. I ran out of interruptions, so I didn't have a chance in the first term. It's about real estate management at the Department of Defense. The Secretary of State has very well argued from the ibo which three lines he chooses to put things in order there. It was precisely in that ibo that the suggestion was also made to introduce the income tax system, because that is precisely the instrument that provides insight into the value of the property, the depreciation costs and the maintenance costs, and that this is indeed important in the long term. I'd like a reaction to this. I know Mr Sneller, and I have put a lot of work into it, and that we are doing a bit of an uphill battle when it comes to benefits and burdens, but I started with De' Medici, the two-sided accounting, and the government is actually the only one in Europe with the local authorities and the Zbos who does not. We should take steps forward there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u312	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u313	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the three rulers in trade union K for all the answers. To a question they had no answer, the question about management and maintenance at Infrastructure and Water State, which is really a worry child. That needs to be improved and money must be invested in it. That is why I left this Chamber for a while and joined with my colleagues Mr Stoffer and Mr Van der Plas in a committee debate on water with Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen, because she had and gave that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u314	And a letter promised!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u315	That's right. She promised a beautiful letter. Furthermore, I can no longer get over the fine summaries of the debate by colleagues Nijboer and Snels. That is why I am going to my only motion and the subject of it: the tax arrangements. I have especially heard the Minister and my associate very well. It is good that he is going to make an effort to improve the application of the review framework. And yes, of course, deletion, adjustment of tax regulations is partly subject to the so-called laws of political gravity. At the same time, however, a political desire cannot be the only basis for the continued existence of an arrangement if it does not serve a clear purpose or has no clear result. That is why we have tabled a motion to encourage real steps in this direction and to work firmly with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that 116 tax schemes existed in 2020, representing a total tax loss of nearly 111 billion, while the total tax revenue was initially estimated at 194 billion in 2020;]] [[Whereas the Court of Auditors concluded in several investigations into several tax regimes in the period 1999-2021 that objectives are vague, lack of support and results are unclear, and that, moreover, it is rarely considered that a scheme should be abolished;]] [[Whereas the report on building blocks for a better tax system also shows that few tax regimes are convincingly positive in terms of efficiency and effectiveness, and recommends that tax legislation be reviewed more closely;]] [[Whereas these studies show that it is high time to substantially reduce the current proliferation of tax regimes;]] [[calls on the Government to respond to the recommendations of the General Court on tax arrangements in the upcoming Millions Note, with the aim of reducing the multitude and complexity of tax regimes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u316	Last year we expressed the hope that this year, in other words, by 2020, we would be above 99% legality. That did not work, and that is a euphemism. That is why once again the call for real commitment to this. It's gonna take a lot, I realize that. The number of radical ideas of these rulers to achieve this must not be limited to a stamp. I'm counting on that. I will conclude with this third beautiful question from the great side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u317	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. Glad that the Prime Minister and I share the analysis and conclusion of the CBS report Monitor Brede Prosperity. I have a number of motions. Mr President, you are not running out of time, but I think that is necessary. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the Chamber and the Cabinet have embraced broad prosperity as a basis for policy and policy accountability;]] [[the Broad Prosperity Monitor has been developed as an instrument;]] [[broad prosperity is a widely supported concept embraced by planning agencies and various companies, including Rabobank, but also by network organisations such as Alliander and employers' organisations such as VNO-NCW;]] [[balance social, human and natural values within broad prosperity with financial values, for all stakeholders in society;]] [[Whereas:]] [[policy-makers can still gain knowledge about concept, definitions, methodologies and policy applications of broad prosperity;]] [[broad prosperity can become a better reality if many more government professionals understand measurement and drive for broad prosperity;]] [[noting that a scale gap in knowledge and application of the broad concept of prosperity is therefore desirable;]] [[invites the Cabinet to make the measurement and valuation of impact on broad prosperity standard part of the training offer for government professionals, including but not limited to policy makers, financial-economic staff, controllers, accountants and purchasers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Annual Report on Business Conduct Rijk 2020 shows that with the current rate, the government is unlikely to reach the leading socially responsible purchases (MVI) targets for 2030;]] [[Whereas the government is a major buyer in various sectors, including food, energy production and electronics, with serious risks of abuses in the chain, such as deforestation, environmental pollution and exploitation;]] [[Whereas the public authorities should set a good example and be able to promote corporate social responsibility in a natural way through their own procurement policies;]] [[calls on the Government to set ambitious and measurable targets for the application of international social conditions in the award criteria for government procurement, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Simons, Mr Den Haan, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-16]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels, Mr Simons, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Den Haan and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u319	Then a motion that is very inspired by the beautiful symbiosis between me and the Minister of Finance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tax schemes are subject to periodic review in accordance with the Compatibility Act, but that the Scheme does not apply to tax schemes;]] [[noting that it does not impose any requirements on the frequency and quality of assessments of the effectiveness and effectiveness of tax systems;]] [[noting that the Court of Auditors notes, and the Minister of Finance does not disagree, that several tax schemes do not have a clear impact;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the scope of the RPE to include tax regimes and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u320	Mr. Chairman. I know you shouldn't think too lightly about indicators. You don't have to add a lot of them either, but still the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that animal welfare is being taken more seriously, as witnessed by the new Animal Law;]] [[noting that animal welfare should therefore also be monitored;]] [[calls on the government to ask the CBS to develop an animal welfare indicator and to consider how it can be added to the Broad Prosperity Monitor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u321	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Broad Prosperity Monitor does measure the amount of development aid from the Netherlands to developing countries;]] [[noting that we have little structural insight into the money flows resulting from tax constructions from developing countries to or from the Netherlands;]] [[noting that we do not know in this way how much value the Netherlands withdraws from countries elsewhere;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the CBS to develop an indicator for this purpose and to consider how it can be added to the Broad Prosperity Monitor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u322	Thank you, Chairman, for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u323	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u324	Mr. Chairman. We have one motion. You will not be surprised that this motion is about requesting partial audits of the VWS budget, which we have been after for weeks. Here comes the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Court has both the constitutional right to information and the right to budget;]] [[having regard to the new, more transparent administrative culture which the Cabinet has promised us in connection with the supplementing affair;]] [[Considering the short term on which the VWS slot Act will be discussed (23 June);]] [[Whereas part audits should be ready and should be able to be sent at the push of a button;]] [[whereas the Court of Justice asked for this at the actual questions on the Final Act weeks ago, but did not receive the partial audits at the end of the deadline last night;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber within 24 hours the partial audits underlying the public final reports of the Audit Service and the General Court of Auditors on the VWS budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Houwelingen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u325	For the sake of clarity, what we are about to vote on, but also for the cabinet. Can Mr Van Houwelingen explain a little more about part-audits in his view? Can he describe them? He knows they exist, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u326	Yeah, they should exist. This is common practice in business. In-depth audits are carried out on a number of services within VWS. Those reports shall not, in principle, be made public. The report we have received as a Chamber is a summary report. If it's okay, there's some in-depth reports underneath. Those are the partial audits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u327	Thank you. Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u328	Mr. Chairman. Mr Grinwis has already explained why I was not present in the Chamber for a long time this evening. I even understood that I was missed by the Minister of Finance. Well, that'll do me good. I would like to thank the cabinet delegation for all the answers that have been given. I just spoke to my associate who's been in the room the whole time, Sander Bossenbroek. The summary was: we are quite satisfied with the answers, but it could have been something more concrete here and there. Anyway, a knee ear that pays attention to that. As long as it's better next year, I'd say. I do have two motions. Those two motions are as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for three years the General Court (ARK) has been pointing to shortcomings in (an understanding of) the state of maintenance of the property in the Defense Department, and that the ARK considers this to be a "serious imperfection";]] [[Whereas this is an extraordinary and growing pressure on the Defence budget;]] [[whereas the improvement of the state and the maintenance of real estate in the Defence Department is therefore indispensable, and that this also requires more financial resources in addition to support from the National Real Estate Company;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[improve understanding of the state and maintenance of the Defence Real Estate and, in addition, improve the state of the Defence Real Estate as quickly as possible;]] [[inform the Board of Accountability Day 2022 of the ongoing results;]] [[provide the Office for the Treatment of the Defence Budget for 2022 with a mid-term insight into the state of the actions already undertaken and an understanding of the (additional) resources needed to improve (understanding) the state and maintenance of the property in the Defence Department,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u329	Mr. Chairman. Then the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u330	There's a question about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u331	I think we'll all see the problem. Mr Stoffer is actually saying that we need to improve that maintenance in the short term or as soon as possible. Now mass is slow and in real estate there are lots of bricks. How does Mr Stoffer see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u332	I've tried to sum that up in a fairly extensive motion. In the coming year, I want the insight to come out well, together with the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. That must, as far as I am concerned, play a part in this. Two. I assume and I am sure that additional resources will be needed. I am also a Defence spokesperson and have seen a lot of what is happening in that regard. I do not believe that this is all in order next year, but there must be some insight. It must also be clear which money is included. I expect the National Real Estate Company, Mr Azarkan, to play a solid role in this. I believe this has led to support from DENK. Mr. Chairman. There was also an answer to my question about the funding of civil society organisations. I understood that the Minister of Finance liked the strengthening of his own funding. Nevertheless, it seemed to us and a number of people from the Chamber that it would be appropriate to make a motion to that effect. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some civil society organisations rely directly or indirectly on state subsidies for the greater part of their income;]] [[Considering that solid social rooting through serious co-financing, for example through private donations and contributions, benefits the independent position and financial robustness of civil society organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to strengthen its own funding of civil society organisations receiving direct or indirect subsidies from the Empire, e.g. through a review of the grant frameworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Heinen, Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer and also to the colleagues. Like colleagues, I also enjoyed the stories. However, we are dealing with an extremely serious issue. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in 2020 the tolerance limits for the legality of state finances were exceeded by EUR 9 and EUR 4.3 billion for commitments and expenditure respectively;]] [[Considering that in 2017 there were 35 weaknesses in financial management, both 47 in 2018 and 2019, and that this has now increased to 50 deficiencies in 2020;]] [[whereas the Minister of Finance has a special responsibility in this respect, including through the State Finance Inspectorate, but this responsibility is not sufficiently taken into account;]] [[rejects the action of the Minister of Finance in respect of the state-wide financial management and the monitoring of the legality of state expenditure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the tolerance limits on legality have been exceeded, both in terms of obligations and expenditure;]] [[Whereas the General Court of Auditors raised an objection only on 1 April 2021 after the end of the financial year 2020;]] [[Whereas it would be much more effective for the General Court to be able to intervene at the time of the occurrence of the irregularities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the General Court can be placed in a position to stop irregularities during the financial year and to inform the Court of Auditors thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-24]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u334	Mr. Azarkan, is that necessary? That's actually the question. We'll have rapporteurs in all the committees in a minute. They're gonna get to work. We will shortly, I think, have ten legislative amendments on financial management. Is this necessary? We share the seriousness of what's going on. I believe that we have had a very good debate and that has been widely expressed. To come up with a motion of censure before all these other debates have taken place and now the moment of discharge is not at all at all, I simply do not understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u335	I understand that you do not understand, but I think this is a very serious matter. I see a trend in which the imperfections are increasing. I also see a Prime Minister who thinks he can talk things out of it in a relaxed way. A number of colleagues have also discussed this. I see a report in which the General Court notes that the Minister of Finance has not intervened sufficiently. I see that we cannot justify how 5.1 billion.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think we have a responsibility to find something of that. Hence the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u336	Mr Azarkan himself hears what he is doing. He is talking about the Prime Minister, while the motion of censure explicitly refers to the Minister of Finance. He is talking about 5.1 billion of which we do not know what happened to it, and he also knows that this is not what the Court of Auditors' report says. So I would really like to ask him: think about it for a while, although the motion has already been tabled. It is also a bit the inflation of these kinds of motions. I think Mr Azarkan knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u337	I would like to thank my colleague for the opinion. You know that I have Mr Sneller high, so I will weigh that in the right way. Then I have two more motions. They're about the mouth masks and the sale to Sywert van Lienden. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Sywert van Lienden, Bernd Damme and Camille van Gestel enriched themselves on improper grounds at taxpayers' expense;]] [[asks Van Lienden, Bernd Damme and Camille of Gestel to return 28 million euros of profits to taxpayers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u338	Mr President, I see that my clock is not running, so I would turn it on if I were you. But it's okay, because I have one more motion, so that's gonna be all right. If that motion isn't followed, I've got another one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the prominent CDA member Van Lienden has concluded an agreement with the VWS Ministry through the Sphinx Holding B.V. to supply mouth caps at the start of the corona pandemic with a value of more than EUR 100.8 million;]] [[noting that Van Lienden in his media actions before, and after, the order had been dragged in, he proposed the business as if he had no profit in doing so;]] [[noting that Van Lienden has established a foundation for the collection of the order, which he has used prominently in his media actions, but that he has withheld the existence of the Sphinx Holding B.V., the formal party to the agreement;]] [[noting that it is due to this misrepresentation that Van Lienden, Damme and Van Gestel were able to withdraw the order;]] [[noting that it subsequently became apparent that Van Lienden c.s. were indeed profit-making and resulted in a profit of 28 million euros, of which 9.2 million euros were earmarked for Van Lienden personally, 5.7 million euros for Damme and 5.5 million euros for Van Gestel;]] [[noting that the provided mouth caps do not meet the quality requirements and have therefore remained unused;]] [[noting that the price of these defective mouth caps was significantly higher than the market price;]] [[Considers that Mr Van Lienden c.s. have abused the corona crisis and thereby (in fact) enforced an agreement that would not have been concluded under normal circumstances;]] [[co-ordinated:]] [[the great social outrage, partly based on the conviction that taxpayers should not be harmed and that the Van Lienden c.s. funds received belonging to the Treasury;]] [[the fact that maintaining the deal with Van Lienden c.s. seriously undermines tax morale in the Netherlands and undermines confidence in public administration and its institutions;]] [[calls on the government to make use of all the legal possibilities available for the agreement with Van Lienden and others. in any event, but not exclusively, by means of that agreement:]] [[to destroy BW pursuant to Article 3:44 for misuse of circumstances or fraud;]] [[or annul it on the basis of Article 3:40 of the WFD on account of the violation of morals;]] [[or annul it on the basis of Article 6:228 BW due to error or incorrect presentation of cases;]] [[or to dissolve because the provided mouth caps do not comply with the contract,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u339	So, that was my longest motion ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u340	Certainly, fortunately, we can listen to them and read them back. The motion will also be handed out. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u341	Mr. Chairman. What I just said may not have arrived quite right, so I'm gonna try again. We are now seeing a cycle of budgeting and accountability, but in fact we would like to set, budget and justify targets from Volt. That was just the two examples I mentioned about education and the housing market, which are really in need of a thorough review and a different approach. In addition to expenditure discipline, we would also like to take into account the aspect of income discipline. That's what those two targets are about. We have a shortage of teachers, we have a reading crisis and there is an inequality of opportunity in education. These delays have been known to us for more than 14 years, if not 20 years. This must be accompanied by figures and quantifiable targets which will lead to more teachers, to a reduction in learning time and to a reduction in the number 16 of OECD countries. That is what it must lead to, and that is what we must link this budget and this timetable to. Budgeting and accountability is absolutely very important. A lot of mistakes have been made; colleagues have just talked about this. I believe that the targets should be broader than just budgeting and explaining. They must also discuss what we as a country want to achieve. This also applies to the housing market, especially when all the reports, both nationally and internationally, call on us to take that up. Because with 89% mortgage debt out of my bare head, that's really a real risk. If there is another economic crisis, that will mean for many Dutch people that their homes will be flooded again. That's what I'm talking about. We need to set targets for more things, such as air pollution, but also inequality of opportunity and lack of ability, and then not budget the targets and justify them in a close sense. I haven't found out it's different yet, but I'd like to hear it if it is. I want it to be in a broad sense. Where do we want to be in 2030, 2040 and beyond? I understand that the further it gets, the more difficult it gets, but I think we can look well ahead to 2030 and we should do so. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u342	Thank you. I see the Minister of Finance nodding that he is about to answer these questions. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the directors for answering the questions. I didn't make my maiden speech today, which I've already had, but it was my first time as spokesman for finance. I would also like to thank colleagues for this fine day of substantive debate. I have seen the words of the Minister of Finance about the importance of soft markers in order to carry out good improvement processes as very supportive, but I would like to make it even clearer, so I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2020 the VWS Ministry spent EUR 5 billion without knowing the parliament;]] [[having noted that there have been major shortcomings in the management of grants at the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America over the last 20 years;]] [[Considering that according to the General Court, the culture at the Ministry of VWS is characteristic of the way in which work is carried out and the problems arising;]] [[Whereas a culture in an organisation is generally very persistent and that improvement processes only work if a cultural change has taken place;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the improvement plan a separate paragraph on an examination of the current and desired culture in the Ministry of VWS and to include its results in the implementation of the improvement plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Raan, Mr Simons and Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u344	Then I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that many companies had a financial difficulty during the corona crisis but did not go bankrupt due to public support packages;]] [[whereas the aid packages stop after the corona crisis and there is a risk that companies will still fall over;]] [[Whereas we must already anticipate the consequences that this may have, including on the labour market;]] [[calls on the government to investigate how many companies will go bankrupt if the aid packages drop and what their impact on our economy and the labour market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have just noticed that the Chamber also gives appreciation, so I invite everyone to give an opinion on my motion in a moment. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Justice and Security refused to give an exact overview of the costs of recovering Ilham B during Question Time on 8 June;]] [[Whereas the Chamber should be taken seriously in its supervisory role and the citizen has the right to know the costs resulting from decisions by the Cabinet;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide, by Friday 11 June 2021 at 5 p.m., a complete overview of all direct and indirect costs of the repatriation of this Syrian gangster, including the costs of preparing, retrieving, detention, Public Prosecutor's Office, care and social assistance for the children;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u346	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his appreciation of the motions tabled and the answers to some of the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u347	Mr. Chairman. Two preliminary remarks. First of all, Mr Eerdmans was right. He's not here right now, but he's checking into the Acts. It was about Kant and the third question. That has been corrected. The Christian Union was on the right track on this point, of course, but I was not. Then Mr Nijboer had a hilarious summary. I also had to think about Mr Snels' motion and Mr Azarkan's comment about the doctor who said: it may be on your finger. That got me to another joke about that doctor. He says to the patient: I haven't seen you in a while. Then the patient says, "That's right, Doctor, I've been sick for a while." I had to think about that when I tried to get that part of the debate reviewed. The motion in part No. 5: dissuade, with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 26 by Mr Azarkan. It is not up to the cabinet to deliver an opinion on this, so we leave it unanswered. The motion in part No. 27 is about the mouth caps. As has already been said, research is being carried out into the conclusion of this agreement, among other things. In its deliberations, the motion adopts matters for facts that are part of the investigation. We're not getting ahead of ourselves. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 27. The motion in part No. 30 of BBB's on the understanding of the costs of recovering a Syrian gangster, I would advise, also with reference to the discussed in the debate. The system of budgeting and accountability does not relate to financial accountability at business level. Moreover, accountability here would also give access to the modus operandi, which is not possible for security reasons. So I'm gonna dissuade that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u348	Thank you. We're gonna clean up for a minute and then I'm gonna give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u349	Mr President, I am sure you are going to urge me again, because once again I have the thickest pile of questions and motions. But I'm gonna do it again this time in tempo. There's been a few questions left. I forgot in haste, but Mr Sneller was right to ask in the first term whether you would like to evaluate the Compatibility Act in its entirety. I had already written "yes' to that, but I have been told that the full evaluation is foreseen for the following calendar year, i.e. in 2022. To be honest, I'm not sure if we're going to win a lot by starting that after the summer. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als de heer Sneller zich erin kan vinden, zou ik ...]] We can do preparatory work in the second half of the year, but I will ensure that it is done as soon as possible in 2022. We'll do it as planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u350	I think that's excellent. Given the breadth of the discussion on the Compatibility Act, it might be appropriate, for example, to discuss the design of the evaluation with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u351	Anyway. I'll be right with the motions. Many motions are mutually exclusive or in line with commitments I made in the debate. I think it would be wise for me to write a letter on how we deal with some of these issues. That's gonna be after the summer. Then I shall undoubtedly address some of the motions. That was towards Mr Sneller. Then there was a question from Mrs Gündoğan on a subject which appeals very much to me. She asked: shouldn't you try to set more quantifiable targets? I very much agree with that. By the way, she said: shouldn't you do the same on the revenue side? Then we talked about the OCW budget. That is, of course, the expenditure side. I agree with her that you should do it for both. I would like to point out that it is not easy for me to reflect the social impact in numbers. That's quite a search. That's what you can see in the discussion we're having about broad prosperity. Even with GDP, it is not always possible to calculate it in one figure. Here you can think of the discussions we have had about, for example, investments in innovation and the Growth Fund. So I very much agree. I would also like to say to Mrs Gündoğan that the planning agencies are constantly working to provide more quantitative insights, for example in terms of inequality of opportunity and climate. However, this is a quest that will remain with us for a while. Mr. Chairman. Those were the things I had left behind from the second term. I think I've done everything. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The first motion I have is the motion in part No. 6 of the PVV Group. This motion I must advise against. The Minister of Finance is not a kind of supervisor, see the Compatibility Act. Ministers really have an independent responsibility there, apart from the efforts we are making. The motion in part No. 7 belongs to Mr Heinen of the VVD Group. This motion I can give judgment Chamber. He's talking about protocol. I'd like to look into that. I think a hand-out would make more sense. I'm saying that, too, because it leaves a little more room for escape. I see him gloating. You'd almost think he'd prepared for this answer. So I can give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 8 is SP fraction. The motion is about the bonuses. I believe that the Prime Minister and I have repeatedly said what we consider to be moral. In last week's debate, Minister Koolmees also said that this could be done legally and that we therefore do not see room for it. I understand it's disappointing, but the answer hasn't changed between last week and this week. The motion in part No. 9 belongs to Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u352	Before proceeding, there is a question from Mr Alkaya of the SP, without going back to the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u353	It simply doesn't get it. It was legal, but this is, of course, a political statement. Then why would the cabinet advise against this? Then just say "I don't agree" and tell me why the Minister of Finance doesn't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u354	Last week there was a discussion about the blacklist. I think it was Mr Koolmees, but it could have been part of Blok. The motion concerns trade missions and other trade promotion by the government, funding from the National Growth Fund and financing from Invest-NL and Invest International. The government should exclude these companies for ten years. That's what a blacklist should do. Last week's discussion on the blacklist was held on behalf of the cabinet. We have said that we can very well imagine the moral feeling about paying out these bonuses. But we don't think it makes sense to use this form of correction afterwards. We believe that it does not tolerate what careful administration should be. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say something positive about the motion on item No. 9 by Mr Sneller: I would like to give him a Chamber of Justice. That motion is about serious flaws. That's what we're gonna do. With his approval, I'm going to see what's a sensible and efficient way of doing that, but that doesn't change the motion itself. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 10 by Mr Nijboer. In all honesty, I say that it is a bit of a doubt, because quite a lot has already been done about it. There's already an evaluation in the Chamber. Here's what I want to do. Three motions have been tabled on tax regulations. The other two, I'd like to give judgment room. I can try to go along with the thought expressed by Mr Nijboer in the debate. I would like to give this motion judgment Chamber, also in order to state that I support the idea, but then I will send another letter to the Chamber. I'm also gonna make sure it gets to the formatter. We're gonna do all the things I mentioned in the first term. But I do not think that we can now produce a separate new evaluation in the short term. If Mr Nijboer wishes to understand that, then I would also give that motion judgment Chamber, because I understand the question sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u355	The purpose of this motion is, of course, to say that there is now so much criticism of the effectiveness of some of the tax regulations that there will soon be a list of formations. If a few billion is needed then at least there are a few options that seem attractive to me to abolish. That's what the IRS and the country were helped with. Then we can carry agricultural exemptions and the BOR for the grave. So if all of that is ready and if the Minister can deliver it, then we are in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u356	In any case, I will see if we can make a serious start on this. I am not entirely sure whether the forming parties have been helped by all the differences of substance, because that might be disappointing. But I understand the question very well. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 11, also by Mr Nijboer. This is something similar to Mr Sneller's question on the evaluation, which I have just answered. The review of the Compatibility Act is foreseen in 2022. If I can understand Mr Nijboer's motion in such a way that we do not do so this year but in 2022, I will give that judgment Chamber. Otherwise, I would ask him to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u357	Let me look at Mr Nijboer to see if he can agree with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u358	That is good, but with the promise that there will be a really solid analysis, because this is quite a complicated subject. If it is an essential part of that evaluation, I agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u359	Sure. I'll give you my word on that. Mr. Chairman. I need to give some context to the motion in part number. 12 by Mrs Van Dijk. I would very much like to say what the operative part of the motion says about the exchange of best practices. I understand that part of Mrs Van Dijk's motion. I can go along with that right now. It is important to highlight that there really is a separate responsibility of the professional departments. It is not half or a bit under some kind of supervision of the Minister of Finance. That's just not how the system works. If we bear in mind clearly what role the Minister of Finance has and does not have, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. Again, I'd like to do those best practices, but I think it's important to keep remembering it, too, to avoid any expectations that we can't live up to, given the way we organized it and given the Compliance Act. Mr. Chairman. Also the motion in part No. 13 by Mrs Van Dijk, I would like to give judgment to the Chamber. There is one complicated thing about it: the first part of the operative part, 'where possible and where useful and useful, contains measurable objectives', I would like to take over completely. This is not the case with the section on the National Education Programme, because of course there have already been agreements on this. In this respect, I would like to make a step in the right direction and to be judged further by the Minister for Education, with the approval of Mrs Van Dijk. Otherwise, I might say something he can't deliver. So I propose that I give the motion of censure Chamber, and so understand her that we do the first part anyway, and that we do the second part as far as possible and not do it when Minister Slob says that we can't do it anymore. I will coordinate this with the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u360	Mrs Van Dijk nods that she agrees with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u361	Very nice. Then I'll be at the motion Snels in part number. 14. I'd like to give this one a Chamber of Judgement too. I have already said in the debate that I think it is logical and important. Then I am at the next motion on tax regulations, this time from the Christian Union. This motion I will also give judgment Chamber. I must, of course, make the same comments as I have just made on Mr Nijboer's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u362	I see that Mr Grinwis agrees with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u363	Mr. Chairman. Something special is about to happen. I have arrived at Mr Van Raan's motions. He tried to convince us earlier that if he had a 20% or 25% score in the motion circus, he would have done very well. But I've just been counting and I'd say seat belts. The motion in part No. 16 can give the cabinet judgment Chamber. I told you, the National Academy is working on that. This new education is about more than just how you measure that broad prosperity, so that's good. The motion in part No. 18 deals with the scope of application of the RPE to tax schemes. I can also give a ruling on this motion, with the same clauses as before. I would, however, like to make the specific reservation that the RPE derives from the Compatibility Act and monitors the expenditure side and not the budgetary legislation. So I'm gonna have to see exactly how. Then the motion to part No. 19, on animal welfare and to develop indicators for that purpose. Judge Chamber, in the sense that I want to pass it on and that the CBS is independent. At least I can do the part with my work. As I said in the debate, this applies to all the indicators that have been given to me explicitly or implicitly. I am also saying this to the others, I know that Mr Heinen, among others, has been working on a number of issues. Mr. Chairman. In my view, then, I have a motion from Mr Van Raan, the motion in part No. 20. This one I can also give Judgment Chamber, with the same explanation. In my view, then, all Mr Van Raan's motions have been tabled in this debate, to his surprise too, and you wonder what has gone wrong in giving Chamber judgment. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 21 of the Forum for Democracy. It is important to mark this again. The motion's request is to provide all the underlying documents to the House of Representatives. We have looked at it again, but we do not know the underlying documents that Mr Van Houwelingen believes there are. That's what makes it complicated. I can advise against the motion, but that is because what Mr Van Houwelingen thinks there is, in our view, does not exist. So that makes the motion superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u364	We ask for clarification from Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u365	What we understand is that it is unheard of. So that means there's nothing underneath the Audit Service's report. There's no analysis under it, nothing. Is that all there is, all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u366	The tone sounds more bleak than I think is justified. Let me put it very specifically. This was a piece I was hesitant about if I should not have made another comment on the motions. The whole story is like this. All available information from the National Audit Service has already been received by the Court with the answers to the questions asked in the VWS Annual Report and the Final Act of the Netherlands. June 8. In previous years, there have been some additional reports for certain departmental parts within the VWS core, but they have not been available for 2020. The ADR shall carry out a single examination of the financial statements and of financial and material management. They report on this in an interim report, blah, blah, blah, blah, including audit reports. The documents you have received are the interim report, which has been submitted as an annex to the replies, and the March audit reports for the year 2020, which have been included in the final act in question 6. I can't make it any prettier. That makes the motion unnecessary. To be honest, I wouldn't advise him so much, but we can't implement it. Perhaps this will inspire Mr. Van Houwelingen to withdraw him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u367	"Obligatory" is not an appreciation. Then you would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u368	Then I'll have to dissuade him, but I would at most like to consider Mr Van Houwelingen not doing it. The motion in part No. 23 by Mr Stoffer of the Politically Reformed Party on civil society I would also like to give a ruling Chamber. I would like to point out that I would like to interpret the motion in such a way that the proposal is to explore with grant departments how co-financing is now regulated and on which it is based. I may be looking at Mr Stoffer just too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u369	That's right, Mr. Chairman. With the Minister looking at me for so long... No, I agree with that, but of course it may be that if you have that on paper, it will give you reason to revise it. This is, of course, only the inventory, but I can imagine that certain steps will also be taken from there. Anyway, that's what we're gonna do as a room again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u370	Sure. I think I promise to take step one without any conclusions on step two. Then there is the Chamber and also the cabinet itself. Then there is no way that we can finally agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u371	Mr Stoffer agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u372	The motion in part No. 24 is a speech-exmotion to the Chamber. I cannot say very much about this, except that I have said on several occasions how serious we take it. I have, of course, also put some questions about the context. If we tried Control-Find, "serious" might be the word I used most in the first term. Perhaps that would be something for Mr Azarkan to reconsider. The motion in part No. 25 is a speech-exmotion, so that's up to the House of Representatives itself. The motion in part No. Mrs Den Haan's 28 concerns financial management and culture. I thought I'd meet her all the way, but I'm going to do that now by giving the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u373	With me, the motion is in part No. 25 not a speech-exmotion, but a request-the-government motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u374	I was just watching, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u375	You were watching, too, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u376	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u377	I think I'll give you a hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u378	Oh, yes, Mr Azarkan is quite right about that. I didn't see that. I had it on "spoken." Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u379	We are now talking about the motion in part No. 25: requests the government to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u380	I want to promise that I will talk to the Court of Auditors, but, frankly, I cannot go much further than that. The discussion I had with the Court of Auditors at an earlier stage did not change the fact that it was found complicated to collect all kinds of information and to carry out analyses during the year. The question as to whether it is possible is a priori to the Court of Auditors. I would like to assure Mr Azarkan that I would like to enter into this discussion on what can and cannot be done. Next, I want to be able to judge whether it could and whether it has added value. If it were, we'd do it. With that double clause, I could give the motion judgment Chamber. I'm not going to involve that other motion mentally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u381	I will amend the motion as the Minister interprets it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u382	I was at Mrs Den Haan's first motion on financial management and culture. He wants to give judgment room. I must at most say that the improvement plan has already been shared with the Chamber. I believe that there are also things to read about culture. In any case, I will draw your attention to the importance of this. I can give the motion judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 29. Just a sec: these aid packages and examining how many companies would go bankrupt if they did stop, I think is too narrow a scope for a separate investigation. I would like to say two things, and I can take it as a commitment. As a cabinet, of course, we have already said that we will continue to weigh, even this month, what is happening and that we will then have to relate to what you have to do in future. Of course, bankruptcies are part of that. In addition, I assume that with the historically low number of bankruptcies in recent months, you will almost by definition get something of inhalation. That's not nice. Of course, that's terrible for the people it happens to, but it's an inevitability of first that huge dip and then in a moment back to normal. I think it was necessary to sweep it all together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u383	What's your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u384	He was judgment room, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u385	Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 29 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u386	These were the motions on the pieces Nos. 28 and 29, both judgment room. I'll wipe it all together in a letter before the recess. Some things we're just going to do, but I'm going to mention them briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u387	There is another question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u388	It is about the judgments on the motions on the documents Nos. 6 and 12 by Mr Van Dijck and Mrs Van Dijk. Mr Van Dijck's was about improving the supervisory role and Mrs Van Dijk's was about system responsibility. The Minister said quite clearly: in our system, the Minister of Finance is a supervisor. I myself looked at the Compatibility Act in preparation last night. Article 4.11 (1) (b) states that the Minister is responsible for the coordination of budgetary management and Article 4.12 (1) states that "Our Minister of Finance is responsible for overseeing the government's budget management." There was, of course, some confusion about that. That is why I asked the Minister: do you already have enough responsibilities? Apparently, therefore, this is not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u389	That is exactly the distinction that the Compatibility Act makes. There is a coordinating part and there is a supervisory part. Two things can really exist side by side in my view. The first thing that you have to keep going is that it is also good for the system of responsibility that the prime minister has said that the prime minister is in the policy department. I wouldn't want that to be any different either, although you could go much deeper, because it's good to make sure that it's not the problem of an outsider coming to supervise, but that a minister just does it himself. That's one. Two. Of course, I do feel responsible for helping, enthusiasming, addressing and so on. This is therefore described in the Compatibility Act. In the first debate, I have tried to explain how this is traditional, not just for the last four years, but I have been thinking for decades. That goes quite well, of course, in general. I would like to make a final point, Mr President. I think that if, in normal times, non-coronatimes, you asked the average policy department whether Finance was interfering too much or too little, the answer is: far too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u390	I get that. Article 4.1 indicates that each director is responsible for his or her own ministry, but Articles 4.11 and 4.12 indicate the coordinating and supervisory role of the Minister of Finance. I don't think there's any clarity about this. In any case, it seems to me to be an issue for the assessment of the Compatibility Act, because this kind of discussion also makes it difficult to see how the division of roles between the Minister of Finance and the departments is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u391	Excellent. That is why I had already promised Mr Snels that we would examine all these elements and take them into account in this evaluation. But I think it is important and also fair to describe here how the practice has been for a long time. Corona didn't change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u392	Mrs Van der Plas of BBB has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u393	I haven't forgotten anything, have I, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u394	No, it's more of a comment. I want my motion on piece number one. 30 amendments to the Commission's proposal. I don't know if we can do that here. All I have to do is change a number.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u395	If you know what can be changed, we can do it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u396	June 11th will be June 18th. Otherwise, we would have to vote on this tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u397	It's noted. I think everyone's happy about that. Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u398	The Van der Plas motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Justice and Security refused to give an exact overview of the costs of recovering Ilham B during Question Time on 8 June;]] [[Whereas the Chamber should be taken seriously in its supervisory role and the citizen has the right to know the costs resulting from decisions by the Cabinet;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide, by Friday 18 June 2021 at 5 p.m., a complete overview of all direct and indirect costs of the repatriation of this Syrian gangster, including the costs of preparing, retrieving, detention, Public Prosecutor's Office, care and social assistance for the children;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She's getting No. , was No. 30 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There have been two more questions left. First of all, Mr Van Dijck's question, which he had already asked in the first term. It was about Groningen and about the relationship between the implementation costs and the actual contribution to the damage recovery. There is indeed a ratio of one state to more than half. So that's a pretty big affair. If he wants more information on that, there's a WHO next week. Mr van EZK is the first person to be responsible for this, but I can at least say that the relationship with the reinforcement operation is, fortunately, very different. That is where we are talking about much lower implementation rates, namely 13%. This is likely to get even lower, because there were some run-up problems which could lead to a further decline. Then the uphill battle of Mr. Snels. I know from experience that an uphill battle is quite complicated, so I wish him well in advance. We take the ibo advice extremely seriously. The most important thing that's going on right now is that whatever system you choose, you're going to have to commit to rational real estate management for a long time. DOD didn't do that for all kinds of reasons. The main reason is that this also means that you lose the flexibility to be able to slide within your total budget with budgets. Especially in times of financial tightness, where Defense had to deal with at least, ambitions versus budget were also used by squeezing business operations. But that is of course not good when you talk about rational real estate management, because it is in your interest to work with fixed amounts and depreciation systems every year. This can also be done through the RVB, through the loan facility. The benefit-burden system is not necessarily an end in itself, but you are right that the ibo study has also mentioned the possibility of a benefit-burden system. Of course, we are going to take a serious look at this in consultation with the Minister of Finance, who has just given some shots.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u400	There is another question from Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u401	My question was more about the costs incurred by the government and to be paid by the taxpayer in relation to the compensation schemes that the government distributes because of mistakes that have been made, and you name it. We can see that in the huge costs of the supplementing organisation, with 750 officials. That's what I've been talking about. 500 million has already been spent without any payment to the victims. I see the NAM refuses to pay bills. The NAM says that you want to pay €50,000 to experts to record the damage, you have to know for yourself, but we are not going to pay it. The NAM protests and eventually it ends up on the taxpayer's plate. We're gonna have experts and consultants again. That's what we saw in the derivatives affair. The consultants and the lawyers are laughing at themselves, because they all write fat bills and the duped, what it's really all about, have more or less checked. I would like to bend that trend. Could the Home Secretary zoom in on that for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u402	I understand Mr Van Dijck's comment on the perception costs involved in getting the money in the right place and in the right considerations. That's always a dilemma. The discussions on the corona aid schemes were precisely aimed at keeping these costs as low as possible and making them available as soon as possible. I think we have learned from that too, but perhaps it is a good thing that I undertake a broader reflection on this point. I am also doing this on behalf of the Minister of EZK, because this is the prime responsibility of the Minister of EZK. That seems to me to be useful for the care and precision of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u403	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u404	In this case it applies to EZK, but you can also see it with the corona support. At first we give away a lot of money, but now it's about fixing and another organization is being rigged to see if a company hasn't gotten €100 or €1,000 too much. To determine whether they have received €1,000 too much may cost €10,000 to consultants, consultants, civil servants and so on. And I just want to get rid of it. I just want there to be a decent relationship. It can be 10%, but not 50%, 80%, 100% or 200% of what is ultimately compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u405	Yes. Mr Van Dijck's point is entirely justified. In every situation, that consideration must be made, including in the front. And sometimes it turns out that it turns out to be more negative, but that ratio of almost 1:2, which you yourself refer to, is indeed considerable. I think it is right that we should return to the questions you have put in writing. Yeah? Then I have two more motions. First of all, that is the Van Raan c.s motion. in piece No. 17, which calls on the government to set ambitious and measurable targets for applying international social conditions in the award criteria for government procurement, and to inform the Court thereof. This is already in line with the implementation agenda for international social conditions, which we promised in response to written questions from the WHO BZK before the end of this year. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 22. That is an extremely sympathetic motion, at least it seems, but that sympathetic starts and ends when providing insight into the state of the real estate and improving the balance sheet. The question underneath, of course, is: what is it that is needed to restore that balance? That's just a price tag coming from behind. At the moment, therefore, there is no telling how large the resources are, what they would be and what that would mean for any choices that would have to be made, including within the portfolio of Defense real estate. These choices are for the upcoming cabinet. That is why I must discourage this motion, although I find it very sympathetic. You can see why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u406	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the directors, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u407	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled.
