ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u1	Before we proceed to the debate on the coronavirus, I would first like to give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. A point of order. We made a mistake in voting after the debate with Mr Tjeenk Willink. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is deemed to have voted in favour of the motion on item No. 29, the Segers/Ploumen motion on the next phase of the formation process with young people and youth organisations. We voted against this motion by mistake, but we would like to be deemed to have voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you. We shall take this point into account in the Acts. That brings us to the debate on the developments surrounding the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister of VWS and the Minister for Medical Care, as well as the members of the Chamber and the viewers at home. We have agreed that today we have a first time limit with one minute extra speaking time, so that Members, if they need it, can also table motions in the first time, so that we do not have a second time limit. That's how we're gonna do it. I would also like to point out that we will be voting on any motions tabled next Tuesday. Of course, there is no need to file motions. And of course there will also be an appreciation of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. I agree. Good proposals. However, some motions may ask for an immediate vote, for example if we ask the cabinet to do something now with vaccines or something else. So I would like to ask you to keep open the possibility of voting on some of the motions this evening, not jointly and severally, but as we did last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u5	Group-by-group. We sent out an e-mail yesterday requesting that, if there is a need for political groups to vote, we should make that known. We didn't get a response to that. So I'd like to stick to Tuesday. Otherwise, we must inform people fairly quickly that we may be going to vote after all. Anyway, I'm gonna run this by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u6	I understand Mr Wilders' request. It's actually like the debate we had two or three weeks ago. This is really about another step. Today, the cabinet needs to be clear about this. So, as far as my group is concerned, we could vote on the motions on which we really need clarification today. The rest of the motions can then be put to the vote next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u7	Anybody mind? That is not the case. However, since I attach great importance to the rule in the new Rules of Procedure to vote as much as possible on Tuesday, I would ask you to at least let me know one day in advance that you wish to put a motion to the vote immediately. Then we will start with Mrs Hermans of the VVD for her first term, which is her only term, as we have just agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Two weeks ago, we took the first step in the open plan. That was an exciting step. But what were we all up to? The small amount of space we have been given is important, because at the same time we must stick to all these basic measures. Then a little space can really help. Vaccinating is important, but we have not yet got rid of the virus. Vaccinating must therefore continue with full force, and the basic measures - I have already mentioned them - remain necessary. This is also evident from the reports about the new infection sites that we see after King's Day. I ask the cabinet, the Prime Minister, to say a little more about that. How much do we expect from that when we hear the GD saying that we are actually seeing the tip of the iceberg? Is there any information on where these infections occurred? Was that in the air? What age groups are involved? And, for example, can we expect such reports on Liberation Day? It seems to me and my group useful information, because it is better in hospitals, but it is still working hard every day. On the day of nursing, I would like to emphasise this. We seem to be over the peak, we see the figures dropping carefully, but I sincerely hope that it will continue, so that we can actually take that second step in the open plan next week and do not need the pause button. That in the morning we can sit on the terrace with coffee and apple pie and that we can do some more sports. Unfortunately, the final game at football or hockey training is not yet possible. We might want more in the gyms, too, but it's not working out yet. At the same time, in this crisis, we have seen and experienced how important health is, how important it is to be able to move. I would like to ask the cabinet what exactly is planned for enlargement in the next stage in sport. What considerations should be made? I would also like to take advantage of this moment, this debate, to... wait for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u10	There is indeed good news about the gyms. If it all goes through 19 May the gyms can probably open again, but then there is a maximum of 30 people in the gym. You know the practice of gyms. There are gyms that are smaller and gyms that are bigger. Do you think it is reasonable and fair that all gyms apply the rule of 30 people inside?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u11	I understand Mr Kuzu's question. That is why I am asking for the balance that we stand for in that next step. I can also see this, these different sizes of gyms. At the same time, I understand. At every step you take something of a risk and at every step you try to limit it by setting a limit. I can imagine saying that we are following one rule when we work out indoors: 30 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u12	In the past, measures have also been devised for shopping areas. Then one person was allowed per certain number of square meters. Wouldn't it be much more logical, fairer and reasonable to link that to the number of square meters a gym has instead of holding on to an absolute number like 30?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u13	We have indeed had this discussion, for example at shops, I believe. You can also release them at gyms. I'll tell you how I look at it, how my group looks at it. You can reason both ways. We said, "Okay, we understand that group size of 30." But I think the question you are asking is right. If I may say so, I would advise you to ask the Minister that question as well. Personally, I also see a risk and I also see that we have to set limits somewhere, so I can accept those 30 people for this step. But once again, at step 3 I am curious to know what consideration is to be made there and what consideration is to be made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr. Kuzu, I don't know if you were there, but we agreed to do two interruptions in two. Of course, questions can be asked about the motions. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u15	The colleague of the VVD, Mrs Hermans, is pleased with me that the gyms can at least be a bit open again. But if you leave the gyms with indoor sports open under certain conditions, I don't understand why that doesn't apply to the restaurants inside. I think it's really random. That's what I'll tell the cabinet in a minute. On that you can see green and one spot red everywhere on the website of the government and that is the catering industry inside. If you can exercise with 30 men inside, where you move, where you breathe in and out, despite all the distances, why can't you do that in a restaurant or for the catering industry? For all I care, that goes for 30 men, for all I care, even with distances except for families. It's also inside, I think even less vulnerable than sports. I haven't seen or read any of the explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u16	For that explanation, Mr Wilders must really be with the cabinet. I can tell you how we have looked at the open plan and how we assess it. There are, of course, contradictions. It doesn't make any sense, and it won't. I think it is important that in this step it has been made possible within sports, with all the restrictions where, of course, we would have preferred more space. In this crisis, we see the importance of moving and health. I get that we say that when we work out inside, we make something possible. I understand that for the hospitality industry, no matter how nice and fun it is, we make a different assessment and say that, if I say it correctly, it comes to the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u17	Of course, I agree that sports are healthy. It's not about people having to eat because it would be fun or not. I'm interested in the catering company. I also thought the VVD had a big heart for the catering company. So it's not so much about the people I'd like to go to that restaurant, of course. But the catering company has been constantly screwed for over a year now. When it comes to inside, he's the only one standing on red right now. So I ask you this question again. If you do allow the gym holder to work out 30 people, that's not only healthy for those people, but also for the entrepreneur. Why would you remember that from the catering entrepreneur, who also wants 30 people inside? In a catering establishment people move less and breathe less in and out, at least with a different frequency, speed and emissions. So again the question: why not give the catering entrepreneur the same advantage that you, quite rightly, give to the gym holder?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u18	I fully share that it is an unprecedentedly difficult time for all entrepreneurs, and certainly for catering entrepreneurs. For all these entrepreneurs, we would rather have them able to do everything again yesterday than today, and that the doors can be opened again. I fully agree with Mr Wilders. At the same time, we must also be realistic. The situation with the virus at the moment is still that there are high numbers of infections. We also still see high pressure on the hospitals. We must therefore remain cautious in this open plan. With that caution, we also see that not everything can be done at the same time. There has been a search for what can, with limitations, be done as safely and responsibly as possible. I don't necessarily like what you can't do right now, but I'm happy with what you can do. I very much hope that after next week we will be able to go on step 3 of the open plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u19	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u20	It feels a bit like randomness. We think: why were we able to open shops in the previous open plan, and now gyms, which we are also very happy with, but why can't we also look at cultural institutions, such as museums and libraries? We've talked about that before. They are in such a hurry and they fulfil such an important role in our society. As far as we are concerned, they are already very much behind the economic sector, which also deserves to be open. I do think it is so important for the cultural sector, which is also so important for the Netherlands, that it still has to wait, even though I think you can go to a museum if you can go to the Primark. The risk is no different. I am curious to hear the opinion of the VVD on why we are not going to argue more strongly for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u21	The same applies to me as I said in reply to Mr Wilders' interruption. Look, we all, including my group, would like us to be able to open everything up to everyone, to all sectors, or at least to take steps. We also have to make choices; choices within space and the limits that the virus gives us. I agree with you that cultural institutions... It's all equally important. Choices have now been made and my group can support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u22	I don't know what these choices are based on. It feels like randomness, and that's what makes it so difficult. Why can a gym or a Primark open and why can a museum, which can prove to be able to take the same good measures and keep that 1.5 meters away, not open? Why can't you pick out your own book and borrow it from the library, but can you go buy one? I don't understand that choice, and the randomness, that difference in what we have now in the different steps. I wonder if you'll understand. If that's the case, then I want to know what that logic is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u23	I don't think it has much to do with comprehension. I told you, it doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make sense. I'm just looking for the right word. Sometimes it feels contradictory. Maybe that's the best description. Only, if it is really about the question on which choices are based and how the open plan was put together, then I really have to ask you to ask the cabinet that question. I am merely indicating how my group weighs the step we are taking. We do so with all the inconveniences that Mr Wilders outlined and which also had Mr Kuzu's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u24	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u25	So I would also like to use this debate to carefully look ahead, because now that things are getting a little bit better, hopefully there will be some room for that. My group would like us to prepare ourselves on a number of points. First of all, next summer. How do we prevent us from bringing in the virus again in the coming summer via Dutch people coming back from holiday or via foreign holidaymakers? We hear that Dutch people who go on holiday abroad are being critically considered, but do we do so ourselves with holidaymakers who come to the Netherlands from countries that do less well than we do? Mr. Chairman. The second point is the catching-up and recovery of people who work in healthcare. The Minister for Medical Care is currently working on a plan for this, and that is what my group seems to need, first and foremost to ensure that all those care workers, who have been working so hard for so long, can catch their breath and recover. We have to, because we will need them again when we have to catch up with all that back-up care. Speaking of catching up, I have a question too. In the approach for the ic-beds for corona patients we see that there is national guidance or coordination. Does it remain in any form for a while when we start catching up? I can imagine that being helpful. Mr. Chairman. My third point is the future of vaccination. Even though a large number of people still have to be vaccinated for the first time, we must start thinking about the future. Maybe we should all get a second or a third vaccination. It is not even unthinkable that we should be subjected to structural vaccination every year. How's that going? We have asked for attention to be paid to this before, but I am curious to hear whether we know better how long those vaccines will protect us. Are we also prepared in our operation and implementation for the possibility that this whole process may have to be repeated annually? And is the procurement of all those vaccines already being prepared? Finally, the entrepreneurs. I have already said a number of things about it, but I still have a comment on the support package. Is that really gonna be ready next week? And what is the situation with regard to the regulation on distressing cases? Those are all those entrepreneurs who do not receive support because of the reference problem. What will the Cabinet do about it in the next few days? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Let's try our hardest to make sure that step 2 can actually go on next week. Let us therefore deal wisely with the space we are given. Hopefully then we can all go on the road to step 3! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Kwint, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mrs Hermans spoke just now about the attractiveness of care, about the need to give people some rest and about the long-term elimination of the backlogs. I admit that Mariëtte Hammer had a long day today, but one of the things that happened today was that the ESC finally presented its report on the labour market in healthcare. The ESC came to the astonishing conclusion that there is a strong link between a salary and an attractive profession. Another conclusion that was drawn was: guys, don't do another investigation. Don't call a task force or a commission into life, but go take real action. In the past six months, the VVD has not always been our ally in the discussion on salaries in health care, but has this report ultimately resulted in the VVD being over and also thinks that we should now opt for higher salaries in care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u28	I've seen the report come out, but I've been sitting here all day. I have to admit that I haven't read it yet. I think it is an important report and we have asked Chamberwide for that report, precisely in order to involve it in the formation. We talk about money very often, and I agree with Mr Kwint that this is a token of appreciation. But I do think it is important to consider what else we can do to give recognition and appreciation to people who work in the care sector. And I think Mrs Hammer looked at that too. I then take out one thing that is very important to me and to the VVD and that is that we give the people who work in care more authority to decide with and to talk about their work in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u29	I have good news for Mrs Hermans: that is also what is in that report, as is the possibility of continuing training and working temporarily in another place in the care sector. There are some very sensible things in that report. But the core thing is that in order to avoid emptying in care, in order to keep the long-term appeal sufficiently attractive, you cannot escape the discussion about a higher salary. That, combined with the call "boys, no longer wait, something really has to happen now," should mean... I mean, the cabinet is outgoing. We don't. Surely we can instruct the Cabinet to use the conclusions of the ESC in its hand to do what about healthcare salaries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u30	Then we must also be very precise. Because the question we have also asked the ESC is to see if there are any differences in salaries, whether it is in the starting salaries, or whether it is in certain functions in the care. How's that taken care of? Is that balanced? That is why I really want to read the report, to know what is said about it and what we need to do for it. We didn't ask for nothing to get the report out at this time. That way we can involve it in the formation. I agree directly with Mr Kwint that this is an important subject, but I will not go without reading the report making commitments or promises about it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u31	I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66, who has just been cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. For the second time we remembered on an empty dam. For the second time, we celebrated freedom via the digital way. It may seem as if nothing has changed in a year, but appearances are cheating, because we have quick tests, we have vaccines, vaccines that work, give back that freedom, so that we can get back to life safely. Horeca entrepreneurs who can put their tables outside longer, musicians who can rehearse together, athletes who can recharge themselves physically and mentally at the gym. But where one with a wide smile sits on that terrace, the other stares at a dense museum door, and the librarian feels forgotten in the plans. As in the previous Corona debate, I am therefore asking what is happening with the libraries. The bookstore has been open for several weeks, but the local library remains closed. You can walk in and buy a book, you can't walk in and borrow a book. I'd like a response. Then high school. It's nice to hear that the cabinet that would like to open with a wide door from June, but what exactly is it going to look like? I'm getting a lot of questions about this from teachers. If we have learned one lesson in the last few weeks, that is how important clarity is. Mr. Chairman. The relaxations are experienced differently; I just said it. That's what we see in health care. Last week I was at Erasmus MC. There they see as a mountain up against the reservoir to non-corona care that awaits them. While a lot of Dutch people are cheering that we're almost there, a lot of care staff think "well, it's just starting." Is the minister talking to the hospitals about this? How do you ensure that the necessary breathing space is provided when regular care is taken up again? Mr. Chairman. In that Erasmus I also saw that vaccines work, because the ic there was not full of vaccinees. We're just worried about the deliveries. Janssen has a new problem at a factory in the US and the schedule to deliver 3 million vaccines in the next six weeks was already ambitious. What's the deal with that? What about the vaccines that we might be able to take over from Norway and Denmark? In addition, I have questions about vaccination readiness. Does the minister have the most up-to-date figures per vaccine? A lot of people are fast-tracked now. That's nice, but I hope that's not because other people prefer to let that shot go. GPs tell me the turnout in some neighborhoods is low. We have 2.5 million low-literate students in the Netherlands and the vaccination invitation consists of five sides with complicated language. It can't be sold, not for themselves and not for the environment, that people don't get a shot for that reason? This is the great national task, so make that voluntary vaccination as easy as possible. That also applies to undocumented and homeless people. We are told that they started too late. How about this? When have they also been vaccinated? Mr President, then there is the production of vaccines. The United States is now advocating the release of patents. This is an unprecedented step, especially since the Americans are now world champions of vaccines with an export ban on raw materials for vaccines and on vaccines themselves, while Europe is already shipping vaccines all over the world. So let the United States get on with it quickly. In the meantime, the release of patents can also ensure that not all vaccines will be covered by a few pharmaceuticals. That's why we're here. I wonder how the Cabinet sees this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u34	If I have understood him correctly, I hear D66's colleague arguing to take over Denmark's AstraZeneca vaccines. But you do know that the Danes did not say for nothing: we no longer prick AstraZeneca?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u35	The Janssen vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u36	And the Janssen vaccines, both of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u37	No, the Janssen vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u38	The Janssen vaccines. But the Danes have both stopped. They stopped not only with the Janssen vaccines, but also with the AstraZeneca vaccines. What arguments did they give for both vaccines? That the risk of someone under 65 dying from the vaccine is greater than anyone under 65 dying from corona. That is what the Danes themselves give up as a reason that they stopped with both Janssen and AstraZeneca. Well, I don't think the Danes are stupid people. In my opinion, their health care is not at a lower level than in the Netherlands. Let's just assume they've investigated that carefully. If that is true, then surely it cannot be that we say: then we will take that about Janssen's story and then we will accept the consequences of which the Danes say "that's why we don't have to do it anymore"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u39	The American, British and European authorities have all looked at this and put all the figures together. These then occur at sixteen incidences of thrombosis at 8 million pricks in the United States. The odds are one in 0.5 million. If you turn that off against the opportunity not only to die but also to suffer serious health damage from corona, then the balance in the Netherlands is absolutely clear. Then it makes sense for all these authorities to advise it. The Danes have made many different choices in this corona crisis. I think some of them are very good, such as the vaccination certificate they introduce. You don't like that. I don't like this choice of the Danes again, and you'll like it. We're gonna have that sometimes. I think it is important that we look at what the European authority thinks and what our own advisory bodies think and that we make a very logical choice on this basis. 'Cause those vaccines... I was in intensive care in Rotterdam. There are no vaccinees; there are people who were not vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u40	I'm not saying that everything Denmark does is good either. You didn't see me telling you that either. I'm just saying that the Danes' argument for both Janssen and AstraZeneca is that more people die from the vaccine than from corona. We already have a group of people in the Netherlands, especially between 60 and 65, who are reluctant for that, although less for Janssen but for AstraZeneca. Who are careful in that. Whether they're right or not, at least the Danes say they're partly right. But whether we think they are right or not, people are reluctant to be vaccinated and are increasingly not being vaccinated. We want them to do so, provided that they do so voluntarily, of course. Wouldn't it be good, regardless of what you intend to do with the Danes and what I don't think is wise, to at least give those people a choice? To give them the choice, because even more important than not to vaccinate is vaccination, with any vaccine. If people prefer Pfizer than Janssen or AstraZeneca, I would say: give them that choice, especially the people between 60 and 65, who are about the only ones in the Netherlands who still go for AstraZeneca. We've talked about that before. Do you agree with me? Then you say, "Okay, we'll get them from Denmark, but no one has to have that mandatory. Everyone gets that voluntarily. People who get Janssen but definitely AstraZeneca, 60 to 65, will get this voluntarily with an option for another vaccine." Do you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u41	Two things. I'm going to answer your question. However, I would also like to point out that I am very pleased that Mr Wilders said at the last question from my colleague Mr Jetten: "As soon as I can, I am going to take that vaccine. A vaccine that has been approved here and the authorities say: have faith in it." I'm definitely gonna do that myself. I think it is very important that we radiate that, because you can see in the United States that all these bullshit stories are going around and that a lot of people are not going to be vaccinated and fear a next wave there. I hope we're standing next to each other to make sure we don't go through that here. And two: I am of course also in favour of freedom of choice. Your colleague, Mr Agema, asked Mr Van Delden today when the people who are now refusing to do so will still be there. He couldn't answer that. It's just that when you say "freedom of choice, right now," you also have to answer the question if that also means that you think that people with a medical indication, who have all received a letter at home, who could all schedule that vaccination, 1.4 million people, should wait longer. Whether they should step aside for a while. While we have a vaccine that our health authorities say can be used well above 60, which the Germans have now decided can be used for everyone, of which the Belgians and the Canadians say: above 40. Then I think: let's stand together to prick as many people as possible as quickly as possible. Freedom of choice, absolutely, but I don't know if that means putting other people on hold any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u42	Finally, Mr President. A group of people don't want to be vaccinated; there are also people who want to have AstraZeneca voluntarily. So you can say: yes, what should we say to the others? But there is a group, a vulnerable group, between 60 and 65... we are not talking about the people between 30 and 35 also important, but between 60 and 65............................................................................................................................................................................. If you know that, give them a choice. If it's not this week, then next week. But give them a choice. If that is the case, then indeed, Mrs Agema did not receive an answer to the question that they are threatening to get to the back of the list and that they may then be due in a month or two or three months' time, then you could support me by saying: as soon as it is possible, and that is not in three months' time, but as soon as possible, give them a choice, because better than not poked at that age.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u43	Then the question is, do you do that for everyone? Because that means that you have to call all the people with a medical indication that is now scheduled from: sorry, you still have to wait. So these are people who are in high-risk groups. There are also people with asthma, who have been inside for over a year now. I don't know if you should want to. I think we can do much better together to ensure that as many people as possible are pricked as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. Second interruption by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u45	Oh, yeah, and send people who have doubts about it to me. I managed to convince two people by e-mail to get shot with AstraZeneca. I'm definitely gonna keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u47	I've got some more e-mails open. I'll send you a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u48	I'll see if you can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u49	I have a question about patents. Yesterday we saw the tears of a director of a pharmaceutical company, who almost stirred up tears and said: yes, but my shareholders must also earn money. Now the discussion is going on around the world about what to do with the patents of those vaccines. That's not just solidarity to do. It's also safer to do. Because as long as there are still major outbreaks in other countries, they can also come this way. There has been a proposal for a long time before the World Trade Organisation to suspend those patents at least temporarily. I was pleased to see the cabinet, or at least a prominent cabinet member, as well as your party leader, tweet last week: we embrace this step of America. But then, this weekend, I heard the Prime Minister say: yes, well, I don't know if any of these patents are really going to be the solution; I'm not convinced of that. So my question is, firstly, whether you actually know the position of the cabinet and, secondly, whether you share the opinion of the SP that the position of the cabinet should be to embrace the proposal of the World Health Organisation and actively seek support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u51	Okay, I'll just send you an e-mail. Then we'll figure it out, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u52	Let us indeed put that question to the cabinet. But I think it's okay to say the following. We are in favour of that waver, i.e. for suspending the patent, because we are in an exceptional situation. Of course, a patent has added value. It is for nothing that a lot of parties rose up to invest very quickly. There are also companies that have invested in a failed vaccine. That too has been important, because you have needed different opportunities. Let us not forget that, after the suspension of the patent, new producers will have to stand up. They need to get the prescription from the pharmaceuticals. They're gonna have to go through all the clinical trials again. They will have to be re-approved, and then they will be able to make a contribution. So that is at a time when we know that we still need a lot of corona vaccines in the coming years. I do not want Pfizer on all those boxes. In the short term, however, we must also ensure that more vaccines go to many places in the world where they have now had almost nothing. For that, suspending the patent is not the solution. For that, too, the export bans must be removed. We must appeal to the United States. But I know that when it comes to addressing the United States, the SP is always on our side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr. Kwint, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u54	We almost join it, without having read it. But what matters in this case is that the Netherlands has previously donated vaccines but a large part of them were thrown away, simply because the infrastructure in the countries they received was not yet in order to complete a successful vaccination programme. When you release or suspend a patent, those vaccines are of course not in the store two days later, but it is a very important step to raise production in the long term as well. Anyway, I think we agree. Let the Cabinet do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u55	Sure. You rightly mention logistics. Suriname made a kind of emergency call yesterday: we hope that the Netherlands, a country with very long historical ties and strong family ties, can help. Apart from the donation of vaccines, I'm really curious if we can do that, because it's also about the technique or even the needles they can use. That's gonna take a lot of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u56	You will continue your speech. I would ask that the reply to the interruptions be a little shorter. And the interruptions would also like to be shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr President, allow me to get my administration in order for a moment. Of course, it's rare that it's not in order. I've lost it for a while. I found it. I made a call to the United States. I would like to conclude by binding, as you know me. According to European directives, people can hug each other again in the company of vaccinees. The United Kingdom has taken over and other countries are also taking over. I ask the cabinet when there can be hugging again in the Netherlands. I am glad that Mr Wilders is enthusiastic about this. Thank you. It will be a while before Mr Wilders and I can hug each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mrs. Kuik was also enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u59	Good. Good. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna file four motions for prevention. Unfortunately, that is necessary because of this new technique. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a global shortage of vaccines against the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas the government must make every effort to increase production as quickly as possible;]] [[believes that a fairer global distribution and increased production should end export bans as soon as possible in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to put pressure on other countries in Europe and at the WTO to lift export bans on corona vaccines and their raw materials;]] [[calls on the government to speak out for the release of patents on corona vaccines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that libraries were included in the 111th OMT opinion under step 2 of the open plan within the framework of access testing;]] [[noting that the government has indicated that it does not intend to start testing for libraries;]] [[Whereas a library has an important local function for seniors and children, among others, and that opening is unlikely to cause regional travel movements;]] [[calls on the government to include libraries in step 2 of the Open Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United Kingdom has recently delivered an opinion on the setting in which one can cuddle again;]] [[Whereas people in the Netherlands also need clarity when it is safe to embrace each other again or to let go of the 1.5 metres;]] [[calls on the government, together with the RIVM and in accordance with the CDC and the ECDC, to draw up opinions for vaccinees so that they can be clear about what can be safe and what has to wait in which setting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Hammelburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1184]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Paternotte, Bikker, Keiken, Van den Berg and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1185]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1186]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u60	I'll spare you the last one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u61	I like that. Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. The World Health Organization and the American CDC are finally over. Infection via aerosols is widely recognised and even seen as the most important way of spreading. The great importance of good ventilation is also mentioned as essential. Of course, this recognition should have happened much earlier, even here in the Netherlands. The clues were already there. Many deaths and much misery could have been avoided, including in the Netherlands. Maurice de Hond deserves complete restoration of honour and Van Dissel actually deserves discharge, but that won't happen. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands wants its freedom back. Many freedoms have been unjustly taken away from us. Our national bed planner Ernst Kuipers spoke the simple truth when he said that the curfew had no effect on the beds occupation. So the Prime Minister has robbed us of our freedom to leave our house in the evening for nothing. That's very bad. Mr. Chairman. Despite all the messing up and messing up, the misery is finally coming to an end. Because despite the fact that there are now 738 corona patients in our intensive care, at the end of May our oldest and medically at risk had a voluntary vaccination. Fortunately, this ic occupation is falling and will continue to decline before the summer, as more and more people have been vaccinated voluntarily or had corona. As far as PVV is concerned, the Netherlands can already open. Anything can be done outside. So end the corona measures that apply outside and the related fines. Inside, all sectors already have their own responsible protocols. Mr. Chairman. In a moment, when the decline in intensive care continues, we really have to go back to our old normal, back to normal freedom: shake hands again, an end to the 1.5 meters, no more cap duty and just work again at work. All restaurants, shops, cinemas, casinos, saunas, solariums, gyms and amusement parks must all open without those corona rules. Entrepreneurs can then return to business and citizens can decide how many people they receive at home. That's freedom. My main question today is: when does the cabinet intend to take this step? Now, stop being so random. It is good that indoor sports will be possible again next week, but I do not understand at all that it is allowed to play indoor sports, while restaurants, solar studios and indoor attractions of amusement parks, such as my favorite attraction at the Efteling, the Dream Flight, should stay closed. It can't be explained either. Please explain or open them again. And why can't the fairgrounds open? Mr. Chairman. It is incredibly painful that so many people in the Netherlands do not get their care anymore. More than half of the hospitals have to postpone critical scheduled care. February 4th, a motion was passed by me to come forward with a plan. I still haven't seen anything, not even in last night's letter. Does the Minister for Medical Care understand the urgency and the enormous suffering and pain of the people with whom that care has been postponed? I really want an answer to the question when that plan comes. I want to see that today or tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the voluntary vaccination of 60-plussers. I was just saying something about it in an interrupting debate with my colleague from D66. Many people email us that they do not like to be vaccinated with AstraZeneca, because they do not trust that vaccine. Rightly or not, that's how the facts lie. We have an interest here in ensuring that as many people as possible are voluntarily pricked. So I ask the cabinet once again to offer these people, preferably from next week, another vaccine, such as Pfizer or Moderna.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u63	Thank you. You have an interruption from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr Wilders is like no other the man who has said regularly that the virus spreads much less outdoors than indoors, and rightly so. You just pointed out the opening of gyms, which is perhaps the most exciting step. You come with the Efteling, calling it the Dream Flight. I'm a big fan of the Dream flight myself, but I'm always in the cart. You're gonna be inside with other people in line for a long time. The question I have is, what if you could do that safely, but with more people, the moment they've been tested or vaccinated, and so you know they're not bringing the virus in? Wouldn't that be a very nice model to let many more people into such an amusement park?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u65	No. Again, we don't want to go to that test society. And that Dream Flight you happen to be speaking here with a specialist who can. He's very good. For starters, the biggest rows are not inside, but outside, between all those fences. So the bulk is outside and not inside. That's the first thing you're wrong about. Secondly, because they have of course been open for some time last year, you can do so by filling the first gondola. It is usually people from the same family... and leave the second gondola empty, and then have another gondola with family members. That can happen already, without testing and without knowing what. And my point is: if you do that at the gyms, you can also do that at the catering, restaurants and many indoor spaces of amusement parks. Of course, I'm calling it the Dream Flight now, but there are more of them. It's not just the Dream Flight. It is the catering, restaurants and indoor spaces in the amusement parks. That's what I'm trying to do. They can just open. You can't insist that a gym, in which 30 people move, is safe, but this doesn't apply to a restaurant or an indoor area of an amusement park.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u66	Now Mr. Paternotte again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u67	Yeah, he doesn't get back from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u68	I now understand that Mr Wilders deliberately cites the Dream flight and not Carnival Festival, Villa Volta or the Fata Morgana, but also those are of course places where you really have to stand in line for a long time. You just mentioned the restaurants. Hopefully they can open in three weeks. But of course, there might be places, like a large theater, you undoubtedly know the Efteling Theater in which you could sit with 500 people. You can't just do that for a while, but you might be able to do that if you check if people take the virus inside. Would you like us to ban those locations from opening up sooner than after the summer, if we really could have vaccinated everyone completely?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u69	I'm not in favour of us running random tests on everyone for all entrances. I am in favour of it, and I think it can be done very quickly, faster than you think, just to make sure that the Netherlands opens up. And you can. I'm asking the Cabinet to do the same. There's a lot going on right now. Again, most of these organizations have their own rules, their own protocols, as it is called. So they can do it already. They've been able to do it for a year. Restaurants have been ready for a year. Yes, you're laughing, but the hospitality industry is in pain. The catering industry has been arguing with this cabinet for a long time... They have their own protocols and can do a lot already. And the cabinet doesn't. Don't test it as a solution. Just say: you can open up with those protocols that you have yourself, and soon, if we pierce a little bit and make the ic-recordings drop faster. Then we can just do it without testing. So I'm not in favour of us testing people on every corner of the street and in every theater and restaurant, as you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you. Mr Paternotte's second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u71	Fine. I hope that in three weeks' time the catering industry will be able to open up. But nightclubs, festivals and very big theaters won't be able to do that for a while. What are they saying to us? They're sending letters about that. They'll send it to me and to you. They say: we would like to have the opportunity with those vaccination certificates and with those tests to give everyone the chance to come in and open this summer. And you say, "No, I won't allow that." Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u72	No. I say that we can do this now to a large extent. Well, Mr. Paternotte, do you want an answer or don't you want it? I say that we can do so to a large extent now, especially when it's outside. And it won't be necessary in a minute. It's just not necessary anymore! As you can see, the numbers are falling. We should not stick to a test society, but we should open up the Netherlands. We'll have to take care of that again, if we can. That is my question to the cabinet. The figures on the ic's are falling, the number of infections is falling, it's all falling maybe not fast enough, but it's falling, and at the moment when a level that's sufficient, we just have to get back to our old normal. You want to hold us in some kind of test society with all the evidence, passports and tests, but I just want us to go back to our own normal. This can already be done in part with protocols. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet where it's gonna be all right in a minute. When do you think we can just open the Netherlands again? What are the criteria? How many people have to be on the ICUs? We need to be able to go back to our own normal! We must be able to get our freedom back! Stop that crazy test! Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of motions. The first goes like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[calls on the Government to end all corona measures and fines in the open air,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1187]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u73	A second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make fairgrounds possible as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u74	A third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to offer another vaccine to the large group of people who do not want the AstraZeneca vaccine and who are now placed in the back of the queue for voluntary vaccination from next week onwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u75	Finally, my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CDC identifies the contamination by breath, the so-called aerogenic transmission, as the main route of contamination;]] [[calls on the government, if it believes that gyms are safe to open, to open restaurants and the Dream Flight at the same time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1190]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u76	I see that here is forgotten to include the Dream flight, so I write it with a pen: "and the Dream flight." That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. Let's get a quick clean first. Thanks to the messengers for all the hard work today. Thank you. I call Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we're lucky, we'll be able to relax more carefully next week. Of course we all wish that young people can play games again and all of us can go back to school and that we can visit exhibitions and theatres again. Culture is also very important for health. But the cabinet is carefully taking small steps, because there is still a lot of uncertainty and the pressure on care is still enormous. We shouldn't make mistakes in front of the port. The CDA supports the line to make a significant reduction in hospital admissions a condition. We also support the possibility of a break button on Monday, however difficult it may be for amusement parks and the organisation of their business. Mr. Chairman. We're worried about all the delayed care that needs catching up. The absenteeism is very high. Employees in care are on their last legs and staff are also leaving due to aggressive behaviour of others. It's good to think about that on this day of nursing. Does this approach have a prominent place in the recovery plan? The relief of the working pressure by additional inflow is of great importance. The CDA likes to see status holders who worked in healthcare in the country of origin also able to work in the Netherlands. We hear that the Netherlands takes much longer than other countries to recognise diplomas. A missed opportunity, as far as we're concerned. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Things are still not going well with the TVL, the Meeting Fixed Charges. Things are not always going well, because different groups fall between shore and ship. In yesterday's letter to the House, the cabinet indicates the dilemma between efficiency and feasibility for a large group of entrepreneurs who are excluded from the reference system, such as companies registered in good time but who have not turned their turnover because of, for example, a renovation. We ask the cabinet to put aid and human measure at the centre of these entrepreneurs and to come up with a decision so that these entrepreneurs can participate in the TVL of the second quarter. The deadline for this is May 18th. I would like to get a commitment on this from the Prime Minister. I would also like a response from the Prime Minister to the letter from the SME Netherlands to the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. It seems to be heading in the better direction, but the pain of corona is far from over. I call the children with school disadvantages and those in debt or who have become unemployed. It is good that there is a budget of EUR 200 million for promoting mental and social well-being and prevention, but the CDA is less enthusiastic about implementation: no focus, no zero measurement and it is not clear how people are being helped. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Looks like Corona's staying with us. It is a good thing that budget is made available to improve people's lifestyle. This is important for autumn, not only because of corona variants, but also because of other infectious diseases. How is this anticipated, so that care does not come under pressure from the emergence of these diseases? What medium-term plans are there for the organisation of corona care? Previously, the concept of corona hospitals has been mentioned. I'd like a response. Finally. Can the Prime Minister explain why libraries can't be opened, but fashion stores can? Why should sex workers be allowed to re-exercise their profession when no requirement is imposed on customers, for example, that they should take a test at their own expense? What is the status of the consultation with the VNG on dynamic licensing, for example for carnival operators? When will the directives be available? Mr President, if I may, I have two further motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u79	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u80	The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a significant shortage of staff in the care sector;]] [[Whereas the accelerated deployment of status holders already employed in care in the country of origin could contribute to reducing staff shortages and workload, but there are many obstacles for them to work in care in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and, where possible, remove legal and administrative obstacles to the use of status holders already employed in care in the country of origin;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action to guide those status holders who can and want to work in the care sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u81	Then the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona virus remains among us for a longer period of time and the likelihood of new variants or other infectious diseases emerging;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up several scenarios to consider how the pressure on care towards autumn could develop and indicate how it will be anticipated, and to inform the Court of Justice of this at the latest by the end of the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1192]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you. Today is the day of nursing, a day when we consider the tremendous value of nursing staff in the Netherlands, a day when we also express our appreciation in word and in deed or, as the cabinet would call it, a day for a nice applause. Our care staff has been working for more than a year at risk to our own bodies and members, for us as a society, hard work for a sloppy wage. And finally, the Chamber hides, the Cabinet hides behind an investigation that is yet to appear. But good news: today the investigation came. I just told Mrs Hermans. And what a surprise: there appears to be quite a connection between the attractiveness of the profession and the salary. No one saw that coming. Now that this excuse for the cabinet to do nothing has gone away, the question is simple: what are you going to do now? No excuses. Not: yes, we are missionary. First of all, you're probably gonna be there for a while. Secondly, the non-missionary Chamber has given you instructions in the right sense to work on something. It was the non-demissionary Chamber that fully supported the Marijnissen motion, and that motion was crystal clear: not clapping but flapping. Give the care staff a raise, 'cause they deserve it. When did the cabinet finally implement that motion? We can't wait anymore. The loss of care is sky-high: 200,000 people are threatening to leave care, because of, among other things, the aggression they face. What extra can the cabinet do to ensure that the hard and extremely important work these people do is safe work? I was just talking to Mr Paternotte: as long as large parts of the world do not have a vaccine, our safety is at stake. This change is not only a matter of solidarity, it is also a question of self-interest. The SP was therefore pleased with the step the American president Joe Biden wanted to take to break patents. Of course, that is also self-interest, but it is important. A step that initially seemed to count on Dutch approval. The Foreign Trade Minister tweeted enthusiastically, but the Prime Minister was considerably cryptic after his European consultation. Yesterday we saw the call from pharmaceutical companies who were terrified by the prospect of lower profit margins and asked if we could please show some piety with their shareholders. These pharmaceuticals like to use the billions invested in research, but they don't give at home when large parts of the world still don't have a vaccine. Besides, they don't give at home when taxes are to be paid. While last Monday victims of the surcharge affair here in the Chamber reported that they have left the country, that they have emigrated, because they were put on the skin of the Tax Office, the same Tax Office, with thanks to this cabinet, explains the red carpet for companies like Pfizer to pay as little tax here as possible. Public investment, private profits. They like to pretend to be very innovative, but often spend more on advertising than on research. Recently, there was an article in the Guardian describing the AstraZeneca vaccine that was paid around 98% of the research costs invested by both philanthropy and publicly funded science. What we all finance should be ours. So, cabinet, break those patents! Are you willing to do that? And also opt for prevention. A healthy life does not save you from all risks, but makes you more resilient. Earlier, the whole Chamber supported my group chairman Lilian Marijnissen's proposal to focus more on sport and movement. But what happened to that in the end? Then education. Of course, everyone is looking forward to when the weather can be complete and wider. But there are serious concerns. The ventilation approach in schools is more or less slower than the formation, and that means something. How many schools are still not properly ventilated? And what risks does that lead to when these schools open up again? For example, are exam locations being looked at? When hundreds of young people are gathered in a gymnasium, the question is how safe it is. For example, what is made available for protective devices when teachers would like to use them? According to the SP, the cabinet is obliged to do better by these people. And finally: dear cabinet, in culture hundreds of thousands of people work, who put their souls and salvation into very beautiful things and who have not been able to do their work for over a year. People miss that very much, both the creators and the visitors. Then it is very ugly when the cabinet says at a press conference "yes, if we do not have a day, we can" when it comes to the added value of culture in people's lives. As far as we are concerned, this really does not do justice to the important work done by all the creators in the cultural sector, so I would appreciate it if the cabinet wanted to nuance that. Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Chamber adopted the motion for a resolution of SP and PvdA (25295, No. 436) called on the government to come up with a plan to improve salaries and working conditions;]] [[Considering that the ESC opinion on "Getting started on care" shows that wages in care have been structurally lower for years than in the market sector and calls on the ESC to increase these wages;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a plan for structural appreciation for caregivers by the summer in which better working conditions and a better salary can be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1193]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u83	Of course, I will withdraw this motion with love when the cabinet says it already intends to do so. But, yeah, we have one term, so I'm just filing her. Then, I have to see whether it is the same motion as Mr Paternotte's, because I have not yet received very accurate reading. I'm gonna do that in a minute. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the COVID-19 pandemic in the Netherlands cannot be ended if it is not ended worldwide;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that companies' intellectual property rights restrict the accessibility of vaccines against COVID-19;]] [[Considering that, since October 2020, there has been a proposal to the World Trade Organisation to temporarily suspend intellectual property rights in resources related to the prevention, control and treatment of COVID-19;]] [[calls on the Government to publicly support this proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to engage within the EU and through diplomatic contacts with other countries in order to gain more support for this proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1194]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you for your coulance, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u86	"Was wanted in the Netherlands: art love. What's left (yet) from the site by means of a round return to the artist who works love with love." Art love: we can have a day without it. At least, as long as we don't look at our shoes. That indicates exactly the current climate in politics. A pandemic happens to us, but then how we deal with it is choices. The Mauritshuis remains closed, but the Hennes & Mauritz is open. Terrace Bolle Jan is longer open, Holle Bolle Gijs is open again, but Holle Bolle Gijs is not allowed to read in the library. Education is the top priority of all, but it's at the back of the test row. And the downward facing dog is forbidden, but spiders in the gym are allowed. In short: choices. Perhaps, with today's science, we would have made other choices. We as the Labour Party in the past certainly, and perhaps now in the present. My first question to the cabinet is therefore: now that the figures are falling slightly, is it not wise to use the summer for a thorough evaluation? And then not on paper, but really with experts and as the WHO intended it: really learning from an evaluation. I'll make a motion on that in a moment. We also need to learn from the hustle and bustle that is still in the hospitals. Mr Wilders and others have asked for a concrete plan of action to bring back critical planned care. Mr Kuipers said it very clearly this morning: it could take months, perhaps a year, before we get back to the old normal. My first question to the cabinet is: when can we expect that plan? Is that in two weeks? My second question is: should we not take this as a measure when assessing relaxation? Not only in the now of relaxing, but also when we need to scale up again should the pandemic develop again. I'd like a response from the cabinet. This is particularly important because it can prevent avoidable mortality and disease burden. That is a very important balance. Two more things about the vaccines themselves. The registration is a problem. That was clearly stated by Mr Van Delden this morning. At the same time, there is not yet a clear policy on how to deal with people who have not given their consent to enter the system. People refuse to include their vaccine in the yellow book. Some people have given permission, but they're not registered. In short, should we not take that yellow book as a measure and press people to the heart to at least not get rid of their vaccination card? A motion for a resolution on this matter will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Mr. Chairman. There have been justified comments made by SP and D66 and later by GroenLinks on patents and that it is important to look beyond the Netherlands alone. The way in which Pfizer is acting again with tax evasion is really shameful. Moreover, I am particularly hesitant when the European Union seems to love Pfizer and other drug manufacturers no longer seems to take them seriously. That's almost asking for trouble. How do you make a big player even more powerful and give him a monopoly for something that doesn't look like baking pancakes, but can save the world? Last but not least, I like to agree with the words of the SP. You can't keep asking care to put everything on top of everything. You can't ask care to keep running a marathon, and don't let that come back in a fair reward or appreciation. The ESC has written a very hard and clear report on it. I'd say embrace that, take that seriously and act accordingly. Finally, I will table my motions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nurses and doctors still have to operate additional covid services;]] [[calls on the government not only to look at hospitalisations and ic recordings in the decision-making process, but also to explicitly involve the burden on the care staff and the possibilities for catching up on regular care, and to inform the Chamber about this consideration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1195]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u87	The second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the COVID-19 pandemic has been going on for more than a year;]] [[noting that the WHO indicates that an intra-action review (IAR) is important to learn what went well and what can be improved in the short term;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with scientists, to implement an IAR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1196]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u88	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the registration of vaccines does not take place in the same way everywhere and that not all vaccines have yet been included in the personal vaccination report or that people have not given their consent;]] [[invites the Cabinet to include the COOVID-19 vaccine in the so-called yellow booklet and to advise that the registration card be kept properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1197]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman. For 14 months there has been a strong call for solidarity. People's freedom is being greatly restricted to protect all of us, especially the elderly and people with weak health. As a result, children could not go to school for months, and this can still be limited. Many students haven't been on campus for a year. Meeting each other, doing fun things together, sports: it has not been possible for the past fourteen months or with restrictions. This also has enormous consequences, such as psychological problems and loneliness among young people. Now that the cabinet wants to make more possible, I am concerned about this solidarity. What is the perspective for these young people? Towards the summer, older people and the most vulnerable groups are vaccinated and consultation on the vaccination passport is taking place at European level. Isn't it a little crooked that young people are going to lose a lot of money on commercial test streets just to get away for a while? Does the Minister see the possibility to reimburse these costs once for people who have not yet had a chance to be vaccinated? Solidarity must come from both sides. Mr. Chairman. Solidarity cannot only exist within our own borders. Only 0.3% of available vaccines went to low-income countries. This is a direct threat to lives in developing countries, but it is also an international risk, because less vaccinated countries can become a source of mutations that are vaccine- or treatment-resistant. Then, of course, these variants can also enter our country. Last week, US President Joe Biden announced support for the TRIPS waiver, i.e. the breaking of patents. A number of colleagues have already referred to it. This can maximize the production of vaccines worldwide. Can the cabinet explicitly support this call? Can the Prime Minister at European level make an effort to ensure that Europe also supports this temporary waiver of patent law? In addition, the Netherlands is one of seven European negotiators for the purchase of future vaccines. GroenLinks would like to see the Minister also working in this role to enforce the sharing of the knowledge needed for the production of corona treatments and vaccines and to include this in European contracts, i.e. to force pharmaceutical products to share their knowledge as a prerequisite for buying new vaccines. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Briefly about the sport. It seems that sport is given more space, because of the importance of good physical health. We also like this very much in the global health crisis. It is not for nothing that the sports sector calls for them to be seen as a solution rather than as part of the problem. How does the cabinet see that? And is the cabinet willing to make sports-specific agreements with different organisations? We know that the number of members in a large number of associations is falling. We also know how important associations are for the neighborhood. I would like to draw particular attention to disability sports, because we know that there is a great deal of loneliness among this group. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Last week the site trashtakvaccine.nl was launched. That is a very nice initiative by doctors to prevent vaccines from being thrown away. I also read a lot of surprise in people who were wondering: why doesn't the cabinet do that itself? That is also what has surprised us for a long time. That is why we tabled a motion a few weeks ago asking for a national waiting list, but it was not recommended by the Minister. But this initiative from the field shows how much that is needed. I was surprised that the VWS Ministry did not embrace this, but actually said that this is not following the national vaccination policy and that is why we do not want to support it. My question is, what is it now? What do we want? Do we want this type of vaccine to be discarded? Or should we support such fine initiatives? Equality and solidarity are just as important in crisis times as they are outside. We can't just work for something if it suits us. Let us above all be ready for each other. I also have two motions for resolutions which I shall put forward in a preventive manner. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the lack of cafeteria revenues and falling membership numbers makes it difficult for amateur sports clubs to stay up;]] [[Whereas sport is crucial for people's health and sports associations play an important role in the neighbourhood;]] [[calls on the Government to make sports-specific agreements with the various sports associations on the safe opening of amateur sport and the future resilience of associations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1198]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u90	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only 0.3% of the global vaccine stock went to low-income countries;]] [[noting that the vaccination rate in low-income countries is approximately 25 times lower than in high-income countries;]] [[noting that Europe is blocking the TRIPS Waiver within the World Trade Organisation;]] [[noting that there are pharmaceutical companies that still have unused production capacity for COVID-19 vaccines;]] [[Whereas less vaccinated countries may constitute a source of potential vaccine or treatment-resistant mutations which pose a risk to the rest of the world;]] [[Whereas the temporary lifting of patent rights to COVID-19 technologies may limit the production of vaccines;]] [[calls on the Government, through the European Commission, to support the TRIPS Waiver on COOVID-19 technologies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Westerveld, Mr Chicken and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1199]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u91	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is coronamoe. The average Dutchman can no longer see a virologist or epidemiologist. People are craving the time when you could still just say you had a cold or a group. Everyone is sick of the measures and the kindergarten manner in which the government treats us. With some fear and some mirrors and beads we are kept sweet, while we are slowly losing our old lives and our fundamental rights. We should thank God on our bare knees that the terraces will be open in the morning from 6:00. And our great leader's gonna let us go back to the zoo. We cannot even go to Mr Wilders' dream flight. Neither King's Day nor the relaxations show a peak in the infections. We can now conclude that the graphs actually show nothing but a seasonal pattern. In one year's time, the havoc that the cabinet has caused is greater than in the ten years before. We have moved less, we have thickened and we are afraid. The coronakilos we will train away again, now that the gyms may be opened by the master, but the fear is a much bigger problem. The illusion of security based on fear is not free. The unjust thought that Grim Reaper could come by any minute with a deadly virus has caused an anxiety cramp that still makes us unhealthy. This stress has a major impact on our immune system. Stress is the cause of 90% of our diseases, according to the American cell biologist Dr. Bruce Lipton. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is aware of this, whether he agrees with this and whether he takes this into account in his policy. Perhaps this is a good argument to stop, for example, wearing those senseless, harmful and terrifying mouth caps. Meanwhile, there are again a number of new studies with good results, which show that the use of ivermectin is very good. Professor Dr Pierre Kory has now shown a 77% reduction in mortality rate with ivermectin treatment. In India, too, they are now even so far that ivermectin is given as prophylaxis to everyone over 18 years of age. The question now is whether the Minister has weighed the negative effects of ivermectin against the negative effects of not treating COOVID-19. I would like to hear from the Minister what his current view is on this matter. Mr. Chairman. With an IFR of 0.15% and the knowledge that there are hardly any infections outside, it is amazing that the Hague officials continue with all kinds of expensive bureaucratic plans. The testing society was officially legitimized by the Chamber on Tuesday, but it's already dead and buried before it started. Follow the Money did research and found that cafés, restaurants, cinemas and museums refuse to participate in this mandatory testing. It is useless, costly and does not lead to profitable business operations. Did the Minister get these signals and what's he gonna do about it? Doesn't he also think that all activities outside, such as fairs and festivals, should simply take place undisturbed? Mr. Chairman. Then there's a short point where I get a stomachache. Prisons often have very rigid corona regimes. Inmate partners haven't had physical contact with their loved ones in over a year. Children have recently been allowed to visit their father or mother physically, but the fathers or mothers, the prisoners, have to be quarantined for ten days. Does the Minister recognize this problem? And does he agree with me that this is absolutely not the intention? Mr. Chairman. Summer's coming up, and the virus is on its way back, just like it's been for thousands of years. In the fall, we're gonna see this minister on television again warn that all daddies and moms are gonna die. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u92	Thank you. You have one more question, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr Van Haga mentioned that there were few infections outside. Inside, of course, this can be very good, for example in wine tastings. That's what my question is about. We have seen here that Mr Baudet sometimes, when he walks to the speaker's seat, places a hand on the shoulder of a messenger, coming close. Does Mr Van Haga know whether there are members of the Forum or fellow room members who walk through the building with the corona virus and if not, does Forum do anything to prevent these people from coming here and infecting people, knowing that they have been in contact with someone who is ill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u94	Of course. It's kind of funny that you're asking this question from D66. That's typical. Corona is a very dangerous virus, as well as a strong flu. It is also very dangerous for the elderly and vulnerable. We have the policy that if you're sick, you stay home. That's what's gonna happen. That's what's being sent on. No problem at all. I see a personal fact coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u95	Just a personal fact, in support of Comrade Van Haga. I haven't been here at any time when I had a snotty nose or a cough or an increase. None of us do. We have always had a very clear line in this. I wanted to say this in support of the wise words of Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr President, there are two people here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you. Honestly, you don't have any more questions left. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr Paternotte's microphone is not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u99	What would you like to report now, Mr. Paternotte? Is it a question of order or do you wish to respond to Mr Baudet? I'm just looking for what you want to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u100	I think it is a point of order against Mr Baudet who has just failed to comply with the corona rules. Here are two people who have said regularly that the corona virus does not cause symptoms in many people. Some people do, but they can still spread that virus. Mr Van Haga, Mr Baudet, all their colleagues, all their employees, walk through the building without a mouth cap past other Members of Parliament and, more importantly, through all the employees of the House of Representatives. I would ask Mr Van Haga and certainly Mr Baudet to abide by the corona rules. If they don't do it for themselves, I'm asking them to do it for all the people who work here who have no choice but to work for us every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u101	I see that Mrs Hermans has something to say about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u102	Can I respond to this first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u103	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u104	Asymptomatic infectious disease is 0. If we were to follow this D66 strategy, it would mean that anyone who is walking around here, including you, Mr Paternotte, would be a potential danger to others. Of course it isn't. You don't have a brat. You're perfectly healthy. If you do get a snot nose, I assume you'll stay home. That's exactly what we do. This insinuation does not really touch either side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u105	I don't think it's about insinuations at all. I really want to support and underline the point made by Mr Paternotte here. We also have a responsibility here for the safety of all employees here in the Chamber Building. At the time Mr Paternotte made that point, Mr Baudet again violated the rules by simply knocking on his shoulders. I really don't think it fits. I want that said here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u106	Was that a personal fact or something? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u107	It was a reaction to what happened. The floor is yours again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u108	Thank you. I mentioned that the minister would be on television again and would warn about all the daddies and moms who would die. That is total insanity, and that is why I would like to congratulate everyone who has now joined the parallel society. A society of common sense, where you stay at home when you have the flu, but you don't wear a mouth cover, just shake hands and hug each other. A free society without an indirect vaccination obligation. A free society without fear. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of motions that I will try to read as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u109	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u110	The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas different scientists establish a relationship between anxiety and stress on the one hand and immunity on the other;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether this is indeed the case and, if so, to take this into account when defining policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that prisoners have been subject to strict corona regimes for over a year, so that in many cases they cannot physically see their partner and children;]] [[Whereas this increases the penalty in an improper way, both for the partners and for the children;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that prisons switch to a more humane corona regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that off-label treatment by physicians of COVID-19 with ivermectin is prohibited;]] [[Whereas a doctor is responsible for the treatment of a patient;]] [[calls on the Government immediately to leave the decision to treat COVID-19 with ivermectin to doctors themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the next, third step of the reopening plan, the government intends to make it possible to organise events again;]] [[Whereas the organisation of an event requires a preparation time of six to eight weeks;]] [[Whereas this has the direct effect of missing the planning perspective for the event organizers;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the overall ban on events in a timely manner, so that event permits can be granted in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, subject to the corona contamination figures, on 19 May "outdoor recreation" is again permitted with restrictions;]] [[noting that the missionary cabinet around flow-through locations retains outside the condition of a maximum of one guest per 10 square metres and at all times 1.5 metres between visitors;]] [[Whereas spill-over sites outside involve a relatively low risk of contamination and the condition of a maximum of one guest per 10 square metres is not profitable and not real for, for example, a small village carnival;]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultation with the carnival industry in order to achieve a safe and workable regime around the number of persons per 10 square metres or 10 square metres. flow-through location,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1200]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1201]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1202]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1203]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1204]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u111	The previous motion and this last motion were indeed co-tabled by Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u112	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin, I should like to add my voice briefly to what Mr Paternotte has just said. I think these words are right to speak here, and I think we should stand here for the staff in this Chamber building. Then, of course, I'll go to my own contribution. If everything is going well, the Netherlands will be able to move on next week. Indeed, since the previous step there can be shopping again without an appointment and some drinks on the terrace. Next week, among other things, the amusement parks and zoos will be open and the terrace times will be extended. The negative travel advice will also lapse. Among other things, the Labour Party and D66 indicated the following. People can go to the Primark, but they can't go to the museum. People can buy a book, but they can't borrow it from the library. So people can go on vacation to Ibiza later, but not to the theater. As far as we're concerned, the chance of getting infected in a museum is really no bigger than in a clothing store. I think that's just the way it is. And last week the Children's Ombudswoman also called for the full reopening of the secondary schools and the MBOs. The damage that is done by young people still sitting at home and missing support is really enormous. Juvenile psychiatrists have been ringing the bell for months. As far as we are concerned, it is time to take the opinions of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's wife seriously this week. At a time when there is still little room to relax, it is very important for us to choose carefully and then we choose as the Party for Animals for education and culture. We believe that education and culture are the basis of a healthy and resilient democracy, which is so important to our society. We have prepared two motions, and I would like to put them in the middle of my contribution if that is all right. Then I can move on to the next topic. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Children's Ombudswoman is calling the alarm about the damage to children and young people caused by the continued partial closure of schools related to the coronavirus;]] [[noting that the cabinet expects to be able to relax for a number of sectors next week, but that schools should not be allowed to continue to open up for the time being;]] [[having noted that the Children's Ombudswoman called on the Cabinet to reopen the education, of which at least secondary schools and MBOs, in full;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the Children's Ombudsman's call,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1205]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u114	My second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet expects to be able to relax for a number of sectors next week, but that cultural institutions and libraries remain closed;]] [[noting that cultural institutions and libraries have carefully developed protocols to ensure their safe opening;]] [[calls on the Government to open cultural institutions and libraries in accordance with the basic rules and protocols,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u115	No, I've got another piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u116	It was an intermezzo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u117	Indeed, Mr President, because I have a little contribution to make. The cabinet wants to release the negative travel advice from 15 May. I really understand that everyone is looking forward to a summer vacation, but RIVM has already concluded that last year travellers contributed substantially to the import of the corona virus from abroad and to the explosion of the number of infections after the summer. At that time, 40,000 people traveled to an orange area a week. Aircraft companies offered tickets to those same risk areas for dumping prices. Today we also have great concerns about those dangerous mutations abroad, because they can be resistant to the vaccinations we are currently working on so hard. And yet the cabinet wants to have the reins celebrated again. We are really wondering whether this relaxation is justified. Let's spend the summer mainly in the Netherlands or in Europe, and of course preferably by train. But let's keep the mutations out of the door and maintain the negative travel advice for the rest of the world. I therefore ask the Minister to state what the situation is with regard to these flight bans to high-risk areas. Are they gonna exist? Are we gonna extend it? What's the status there? Of course, we also want to know what he thinks about maintaining the negative travel advice for the rest of the world. Mr. Chairman. Giro555 has also taken action today to combat corona in poor and vulnerable countries. The images of recent months from Brazil, India and now Nepal are heartbreaking. We must do everything we can to help other countries with medical help and vaccines. This, of course, also counteracts those dangerous mutations. We are therefore curious whether the Minister is willing to support Giro555's action with a financial contribution from the Dutch government. Mr. Chairman. My final point has already been made by several parties today. That question is, of course, about the patents. The pharmaceutical companies become treasured by these corona vaccines, but still refuse to share their knowledge and to give up intellectual property rights temporarily. The US has already supported the urgent call of the World Health Organisation to release these patents temporarily and to grant a temporary exemption. In my view, my question has been put exactly in the SP motion. I can therefore agree with that in the hope that we will indeed make a firm plea for the temporary waiver of those patents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u118	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with what Mr Paternotte and Mrs Hermans have said, including a colleague. Mr. Chairman. Today 201 years ago, a woman was born who left her comfortable world to follow the voice of God, to care for and help the poor and the sick. Meanwhile, she wrote a feminist book about the limitations a woman experiences when she wants to take care of. This was the founder of modern nursing, Florence Nightingale. I think today is a day, really the moment, to thank all the people who, in her footsteps, take good care of others. Thank you, heroes, people who have been fighting like this for a year, you are doing so well and you deserve our thanks. Mr. Chairman. Today, the counter stands at over 6.7 million vaccinations. We're seeing the contagion rates dropping, and it looks like the hospitals are over the top. That gives room for relaxation, but at the same time it is exciting. It is good that we can probably take a step next week, but it is important that the OMT's advice is followed, that the decline is really firm and that there is the possibility to postpone the relaxations if the figures are disappointing. Mr. Chairman. With so many vaccinations, the purpose of the cabinet to protect vulnerable people, to ensure that care is able to cope and to reduce the harmful side effects. In this debate, I would like to look at the longer term, the desired strategy and the corresponding legislation. Because if I think ahead, I see the following, not desirable scenario for me regarding the corona measures and their legal anchoring in the Temporary Law measures. In mid-August, the government and the Chamber again had to decide on the extension of the Twm on 1 September. Then hopefully we've all been vaccinated, at least anyone who wants to. At the same time, there have been plenty of holidays and people return from them. That's gonna give you a chance to re-blow the virus. Then the schools open up again: another chance to ignite the virus. And then the fall comes. Time and time again when there is a risk, that you can imagine a course in which the virus flares up: seasonal effects, mutations, you name it; there is always a moment to think that it is risky to delete the legal basis of the corona measures. But the danger is that control is growing, and the Christian Union does not want that. I'm not talking about now, the current phase of the pandemic. I am talking about the stage that follows, the stage of vigilance and then of endemia. I would like to ask the cabinet what its view is, at that time. What strategy does the cabinet have? What's it targeting? Is that still protecting vulnerabilities? The next question is then what measures should be included. The kick-out of local fireplaces? A repeat shot? And what legislation does that include? Is the Public Health Act as we knew it without all the corona measures? Or is there a need for another system? Mr. Chairman. Like I said, we're not ready yet. The Temporary Law measures covid-19 will also apply in June, July and August. I agree with the Council of State that this law also provides the basis for measures that prevent a heavier lockdown and thus promote freedom. However, the government's explanatory note to the decision is a little lean. I would remind the Minister of the commitment he has given us to support the need for an extension per part of the Twm. It is not enough to refer to the progress letters. The Minister of VWS called this the Bikker/De Vries test, and you can imagine that because of that last part of that test I really had some ideas and great expectations. I'd like to see the completion of that test as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a completely different subject, namely prostitution. I thank the Minister of SZW for his answers on people in prostitution, the effectiveness of regulations for them and their vulnerable situation. People in prostitution really felt very unsafe when they couldn't do their job. But I am now asking, through the ministers present, whether people in prostitution can claim these arrangements even after 19 May. I shall be tabling a motion on this in a moment. Finally. Today, the action of Giro555. That started with the Segers/Ploumen motion. We really like the fact that that action started. I'll ask anyone who wants to be part of this. Mr. Chairman. I still have a number of preventive motions, but I see Mrs Van den Berg standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u120	That's right. Thank you. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u121	In any case, thank you for what Mrs Bikker says about the Tozo for the sex workers; I call it the safety net. Does Mrs Bikker agree with the CDA that it is really very strange that the cabinet has not simply demanded that the clients of sex workers should first take a safety test at their own expense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u122	I think that safety is very important. I also hear from the field how unsafe people feel about this, but also that a lot of people are not going to work yet and that because of that the streets are empty. This once again promotes insecurity. At the same time, you're dealing with the feasibility. Can you, as a worker, ask for such a test at that time? Do you feel strong enough for that? I think that's very vulnerable. In any case, I have my doubts as to whether this is wise. That is precisely why I want to promote this freedom, and I will table a motion with you to ensure that sex workers know about it and that they can appeal to it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna read rapido the four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Corona will eventually move from an epidemic to an endemic disease;]] [[Whereas at that time the Twm should no longer be necessary;]] [[Calls on the Government to indicate when the Public Health Act meets again or that it requires adjustments to the lessons learned;]] [[invites the Government to indicate when it expects this endemic phase to be achieved, to outline the strategy of the Cabinet at this stage, and to inform the Chamber about it before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to extend the entire Temporary Law measures covid-19 until 1 September;]] [[Whereas that law provides for the possibility of repealing specific provisions or parts thereof earlier;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider, taking into account current figures, what provisions of this law or parts thereof may already be repealed, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof as soon as possible;]] [[invites the Government to re-evaluate each month by provision or part of it or, why and for how long it is still necessary, and to inform the Chamber on a monthly basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a small proportion of serious corona patients are not hospitalized but are followed at home by the hospital, the so-called telemonitoring patients;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the LCPS to include telemonitoring patients in their registration, so as to provide better insight into the course of the corona crisis and the room for relaxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1207]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1208]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u123	My last, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sex work may be resumed as from 19 May and that, unlike other contact professions, there is no reservation, registration or wearing personal protective equipment;]] [[whereas not all sex workers will work for health and/or safety reasons and the government indicates that it is undesirable for sex workers to have to continue working;]] [[calls on the Government to keep the aid measures, such as the Tozo and the TONK, accessible to sex workers when they do not work or work less because of the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Westerveld, Mr Simons and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr. Chairman. "By all means necessary." When Americans and British speak these words, you hear urgency. You'll hear the urge to act. Then you hear determination. That is what we have been missing for 14 months. We miss the same conviction that this pandemic will finally be eradicated so that all of us, including all of us, will be freed from this hostage-taking virus. And we can, but then we have to say "by all means necessary." Let us not forget that many people are waiting for the mailbox, often literally, for the invitation to a vaccine. For many groups vaccination is the most important access card to society. Unfortunately, we read that the delivery of vaccines and the rate of vaccination are still uncertain. The Minister's commitments will not be converted into action in a structural manner. Then we have only talked about the situation in the Netherlands. We count ourselves rich again when the vaccination rate rises in the Netherlands. But these profits will soon evaporate again if new mutants emerge from other parts of the world that can resist the vaccines. That is the definition of a pandemic: an epidemic on a global scale. Mr. Chairman. The exit from this pandemic is global vaccination. Global vaccination production is simply not in order. This gives the virus the chance to re-arm itself against the vaccines and we risk losing the global race against time. If we want our freedom back, we need courage. Be at least as brave and progressive as American President Biden and release the patents. The most widely heard counter-argument for releasing patents on corona vaccines is that it will not immediately lead to more vaccines. It's always the easiest thing to say. But let's not look away from everything we can achieve. Because in countries such as Bangladesh, Vietnam and South Korea, the release of patents could quickly lead to new production. So I ask the Minister today: has he looked carefully at the possibilities of increasing production capacity? Did he properly investigate what we can do by releasing the patents? Doesn't the minister fall for big pharma's lullaby? The vaccines build on fundamental research done by universities that have been paid with public money. In addition, big pharma makes almost twice as much profit compared to other major multinationals. With those profits, they buy up their own shares. That's how the CEOs pay their salaries. A $50 million salary is no longer unusual. As a blow they pay no to little taxes thanks to expensive tax consultants who like Sherlock Holmes search for the loopholes in the laws. By all means neccessary, chairman. Mr. Chairman. What discussions has the Minister had with his European colleagues on this matter? Because it is in those consultations that important decisions are taken: on vaccines, on relaxations, on travel restrictions. They directly affect the situation in the Netherlands and we hear little about it from the minister. What vision has the Minister put on the table in Brussels, and what is the outcome? Mr. Chairman. It often seems here in The Hague that parties think that we can solve all the problems ourselves in the Netherlands. But we are facing a pandemic of unprecedented magnitude. It is time for a global approach. If we do not do this out of solidarity for the fellow man, let us do it for the Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u125	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u126	Good evening, chairman, colleagues and trade-K. These debates are a bit like weather reports. That's how I feel. Occasionally some sun, cloudy, some rain can come and every now and then a thunderstorm. Actually, it can go either way with the corona forecasts. We'll see that every week. I'd like to walk by a few topics. Actually, there's one central theme. That's customization. I deal with the local approach, the choice of a vaccine, the waste of vaccines and the outdoor sports in a team. Those are the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u127	And the varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u128	And what's on the table, of course. As far as the local approach is concerned, I begin with the growing dissatisfaction of central control through the top-down approach. We heard Mr Depla. He says in the AD on behalf of the VNG Committee on Social Impact COVID-19 that the national measures of The Hague are becoming increasingly unnecessary when society is reopened. The Temporary Law test certificates, whose temporality can be stretched endlessly, are an example of this. With regard to JA21, the reopening of society should also make it possible to allow more relaxation at local level. Space for local approach by municipalities, companies, institutions and associations is essential. That's what Depla literally says: it has to be done with prescribing things. He says "facilitate" becomes the magic word. So the fixation at the Tuesday press conference, in which measures are imposed by law on the whole country, must continue to be released, he says, as the acute health crisis becomes more under control. Can the Minister reflect on these considerations? That these press conferences actually create the appearance of smart steering, but in reality give text and explanation to a somewhat rigid planning, which is more following the developments than before. Do you have it? Then the vaccines. They're finally rolling off the conveyor belt. This week, the 7 millionth shot will be made. Henry Ford once said the familiar words: the Ford Model T is available in any color, but it must be black. I think people in the 60 to 65 age group have exactly the same customer experience. They can choose any vaccine, as long as it's AstraZeneca. Several channels continue to show signs that this vaccine is simply difficult for some in this age group. Mr Wilders has already spoken about this. Providing safety also means contributing to experiencing a sense of safety. General practitioners are concerned about the age group from 60 to 65. My group is calling again for their attention. The petition against AstraZeneca has now been signed almost 10,000 times. We can see that thousands of people simply do not allow themselves to be vaccinated because of the lack of choice. That's worrying. We would like to hear from the Minister whether he still intends to implement the Wilders/Van Haga motion in this respect. Can the Minister promise that he will leave people over 60 who do not want to be vaccinated with AstraZeneca, yet another choice? This makes a world of difference for them, and it also contributes to the successful progress of vaccinations. Mr. Chairman. I'm ready for closure again. You've been through the cubes at a furious pace. Of course, you are missing two themes. They're small, but they make a world of difference for people. The first is the waste of vaccines. I believe the SP was talking about trash can vaccine.nl. The aim is to use the remaining vaccines as efficiently as possible. We want to actively support this, so we are tabling a motion for a resolution. The second is JA21's request to release the distance standard of 1.5 meters immediately in outdoor sports for persons over 27 in team. This avoids many teams in fact... One part under 27 can play sports with each other outside, but the other part has to do it at 1.5 meters. We do not see that distinction and we are going to table a motion to that effect. Mr. Chairman. This leads me to conclude with two motions. I have exactly one minute left. The first is Mr Eerdmans' motion, which I myself am proposing during the debate on the development of the coronavirus. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that to use remaining (waste) of corona vaccines in our country as efficiently as possible, the website www.prullenbakvaccine.nl has been created for people over 18 years of age who want to be vaccinated as soon as possible;]] [[noting that the initiators have no intention of derogating from the government's strategy or regulation;]] [[noting that there are countries in which the public authorities themselves offer similar services;]] [[Whereas waste of vaccines should be avoided;]] [[Whereas acceleration of the vaccination rate is desirable;]] [[Whereas the distribution of surplus vaccines should not become a matter of prestige over who is in charge;]] [[calls on the government to increase the rate of vaccination and to combat the waste of vaccines, and actively support initiatives such as trash vaccine.nl,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a maximum of 30 persons is permitted outside group sports;]] [[noting that, from 27 years onwards, everyone must keep 1.5 metres away;]] [[whereas in theory many teams are allowed to work together again, but one part of the group should keep distance and the other half should not;]] [[Whereas, in order to make sport possible together, this unsporting situation should be tackled;]] [[calls on the Government to immediately abolish the distance standard for persons from 27 years of age who wish to exercise outdoor sports as a team,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1211]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1212]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u130	Positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u131	We'll hear the appreciation later. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u132	Mr. Chairman. The chair is at the right height. Mr Eerdmans and I have one thing in common, namely that we were both born in Harderwijk. With him, the length is a little more pierced than with me, but he's at the right height now. Mr. Chairman. Today is the annual day of nursing. I'm not the first to mention it. More have done so, but it is a good time to look again at all the work of nurses and nurses in hospitals, neighbourhoods and institutions. We just have a lot of appreciation for that and a lot of respect for that. The longer this crisis lasts, the harder it will be for them. I am thinking specifically of all those operations and treatments that have been postponed. This morning at the technical briefing, we were able to see that in detail. We're gonna have to catch up on all that later. But at the same time, the hospital staff has been working in the red for a long time. My first question to the cabinet is therefore when we can expect the recovery plan for care, which is currently being worked on by the Minister for Medical Care. I'd like to hear a specific date. Mr. Chairman. The SGP supports the second step of the open plan. The number of new hospital and ic admissions is steadily falling, but the pressure on care is still high. The cabinet is right to make another attempt and only next Monday will the final decision be taken. Mr. Chairman. I missed attention to higher education in the press conference. My question is therefore how do we ensure that students can not only go back on the terrace before the summer, but also more often in the lecture hall. Will educational institutions be allowed to arrange this? Then, chairman, I come to the weddings, because I am getting more and more questions about that too. When will there be more room for visitors at weddings? This is often the most important and beautiful day in your life. My question is whether it is true that this will be settled on the next step. Can the Minister indicate how group size is dealt with in relation to the surface of a space? Mr. Chairman. The government decided to extend the temporary corona law until 1 September. The SGP understands that it is necessary to continue to take measures to combat the virus, but at the same time I miss the reflection of the cabinet on the question when the government let me say it domestically goes back into the loft. We cannot remain infinitely busy with compulsion, obligations and control. When will the government return freedom and responsibility to local authorities, schools and institutions and just to citizens themselves? Indeed, it is undesirable and contrary to the intention of the corona law that you maintain that entire temporary law while you only need parts of it. The decay clause in the corona law expressly provides for the possibility of repealing provisions or parts of the law if these are no longer required. My question is why the cabinet did not use it, for example the article relating to curfew. That is why Mrs Bikker and I have tabled a motion along these lines. Finally, Mr President. Soon the letter on the economic aid package for the coming months will come. Since the SGP is the party for entrepreneurs, I give the cabinet three points in this respect. With the summer in front of the door, group accommodations also hope for good times. However, the risks of restrictive measures are so great that the bookings have been deleted and are also lacking. The financial support is often inadequate, while group accommodations have been virtually empty since March 2020. My question is whether the cabinet is prepared to develop appropriate support measures in dialogue with this sector and to consider the conditions under which accommodations can be restarted. I shall be tabling a motion on this in a moment. Secondly, I urge the cabinet to deal flexibly with the reimbursement of corona aid. I would also like to receive a response to that. Finally, I would like to draw your particular attention to the resolution of the NOW scheme. Accounting costs are high, and entrepreneurs are often faced with very high refunds. My question is how the cabinet is going to prevent entrepreneurs from getting into the financial problems by settling their aid measures. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more motions that I'm about to file in my last minute. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that group accommodations have suffered significant turnover losses since March 2020 due to the restrictive measures, and that the financial support is not always proportionate to the turnover losses suffered, for example due to the seasonal nature of this sector;]] [[Whereas it is important that this sector should be given a more short-term perspective;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with this sector to consider how to stimulate the recovery of this sector and to consider whether and how more appropriate financial support is possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1213]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u133	And then the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs of 11 May last, despite concerns about the effectiveness of the proposals, does not make a definitive choice as to support for distressing cases;]] [[Notes that a rapid solution needs to be found for companies not receiving support due to the reference problem, with the option of a choice for another reference month being an executable option;]] [[calls on the Government to take a decision on a solution to the issue of reference in the TVL Q2 before the deadline of 18 May, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Aartsen, Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1214]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I also put the microphone at the right height, because indeed, Mr Stoffer stayed very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u135	Nounounounounou, everything is relative, isn't it, in life?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u136	Yeah, that's right. I'm at the right height. Mr. Chairman. During the latest episode, last Tuesday evening, of the Bad News Show hosted by Mr Rutte and Mr De Jonge, we heard a lot of announcements about dates and dates. But actually it was something else this time, because it goes in the right direction and carefully the tone was optimistic. However, this caution and optimism are flattened by the discussion about whether or not we can eat apple pie on the terrace, or the question of which attractions we can and cannot enter in the Efteling. I wonder if that helps a lot of people. Mr. Chairman. We're going to a free society for a certain group. The D66 dream following Israel's example comes true: only vaccinees and people who are tested every once in a while get freedom. Those who do not want to be tested are a pariah of society. The message is: you are ill in advance, unless otherwise can be proven. That is not good as far as the DENK Group is concerned. As far as DENK is concerned, the focus shifts from indirectly forcing citizens to be tested or to vaccinate on every corner of the street, to pricking the most vulnerable as quickly as possible. That's what the focus should be, including D66's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u137	You spoke to D66 twice, so Mr Paternotte wants to respond. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u138	It is, of course, total nonsense what Mr Kuzu is selling here. In Denmark they have been doing this for several weeks. Restaurants and all kinds of other places where people can go in are open there again. That's where they're okay with getting tested or showing that they've already been vaccinated and that they're not taking the virus inside. We only want that if the alternative is for such a location to remain closed for the time being or if you can allow fewer people to do so, because you have to keep the 1.5 meters. So all you do is give people more opportunities. Whether you're getting tested or not is entirely up to you. Whether you are vaccinated or not is entirely up to you. There's only more room. So it's total bullshit what Mr Kuzu just said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u139	It's not bullshit at all. It's absolutely no bullshit, because according to D66, there are two possibilities: either you get vaccinated, or you get tested on every corner of the street to get access to a part of society. If you don't, the message is stay home. Then you're a pariah. On the whole principle of testing society and in the discussion and debate that we have had over the last two weeks in the course of the legislative proposals on quarantine and testing society, the D66 group fundamentally disagreed with my group. For we do not want an indirect form of coercion to vaccination. We see the results of that too. We see that there is an indirect form of coercion to vaccination, because if you do not want to be tested every time, then you will of course be vaccinated. You'll be forced to do that. Then there's pressure applied. That's what we shouldn't want. We see this in people's willingness to be vaccinated. We see that there are problems and that doctors complain about them. This route is an impassable road.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u140	Finally, Mr Paternotte. I suggest you continue with your own story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u141	We just had six months in which no one could go to the theatre, to the terrace or to the catering industry, in which all that was closed. If you say that we can make that possible for people who are okay with being tested and that the alternative is that it stays closed for longer, you call it something of compulsion and urge. That's bullshit, of course. We can also say that we are really waiting for enough people to be vaccinated. But we get letters from entrepreneurs saying, "Give us that opportunity." I hear people often say: I think it's okay to do that for a while, then I might be able to go to that theater. Why are you blocking that for them? Why are you stopping them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u142	I wish I was able to block it. For I hope that Mr Paternotte also reads the letters that are not acceptable to him, like those of the Royal Horeca Netherlands, which clearly indicates that this is not an option for them. There are also plenty of museums and theatres that indicate that they do not want to, because of decreasing numbers of visitors. What the fraction of D66 is doing here is actually also a principled discussion, something in which you let people prove to everyone in the Netherlands, 17 million Dutch people on the basis of a test or a vaccination passport whether they are sick or not. If you don't have that, you don't have access to society. I think that's a wrong form of society. That's not what we should want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u143	You've had twice the chance to respond to it. I really ask you to continue with the speech, because you provoke Mr Paternotte every time. No, Mr. Paternotte, you've also had twice the chance to respond to it. Mr. Kuzu, I really want to ask you to move on with the argument. I would like Mr Kuzu to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u144	There was also good news for people who liked to go to the gym... He's gonna keep talking through it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u145	Yeah, I can tell. Do you have a point of order or do you want to have a substantive debate? Because of course you just had twice the chance to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u146	No, I just want to make a point. Mr Kuzu pretends to force the catering industry or the theatres...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u147	This is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u148	...to work with access tests, and it's not. That is a completely free choice of these institutions. I think that's important to mention here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u149	Mr President, we can do the debate again last week...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u150	That's exactly what I want... Mr. Kuzu, just give me a second. You just don't agree. Let's not start the debate again. Mr. Paternotte, you've now had a few opportunities to respond to it. I would also ask Mr Kuzu not to provoke Mr Paternotte every time, but to keep his own story. Mr. Kuzu. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u151	Yes, Mr President, let me listen to your suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u152	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u153	There was also good news for people who like to go to the gym. Because that's exactly what a lot of people have missed. Sports isn't the problem. Sports is the solution. But the practice of the gyms is, of course, uncomfortable. There are gyms with an area of 300 square meters and also with an area of 1,000 square meters. Now we see that there are rules for shops and supermarkets, for example, one visitor per 10 square meters. We have therefore tabled a motion together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, with which we would like to encourage the government to work with gyms to see if anything else is possible. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gyms are open on 19 May with up to 30 visitors per location;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with gyms, whether the number of visitors can be adapted to the space available, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Hermans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1215]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u154	Mr President, the next item is the report (Doc. It was international news that the corona virus is also transmitted via aerosols, as with all respiratory infections. Minister De Jonge claimed that he recognised the importance of aerosols for a longer time, while he was, in my opinion, still a few months ago that in January, Denk's motion asking for recognition of aerosol transmission was not recommended. Actually, I'm still wondering why. Maybe he can answer that today. Mr. Chairman. The policy of adapting the use of masks in care is very slow. According to Minister Van Ark it was not necessary and there was no reason to make FFP2 masks the standard in healthcare. The Minister's answers to our parliamentary questions were insufficient and there was no solution for safe working, according to a lot of healthcare workers. I ask the Minister for Medical Care what the follow-up steps are for FFP2 masking in care. I'll make a motion on that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the World Health Organisation recognises aerosol dispensers as a transmission route of SARS-CoV-2;]] [[Calls on the Government to instruct RIVM to amend the infection prevention guidelines, taking into account the aerogeneity of SARS-CoV-2, such as..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1216]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u155	Mr. Chairman. An important focus for the cabinet for this moment should be to deal with the chronic aftermath of the coronavirus, the so-called long covid. The Long Fund reports that three quarters of the people who have had corona are not fully at work, and that the complaints continue for a long time with all the social and economic consequences. DENK wants to know from the minister what the long-term plan is to ensure the physical and mental recovery of this group. Mr. Chairman. One more point about Suriname. The situation in Surinam around vaccinations worries the fraction of DENK. Only a very small proportion of people have had a first shot and the situation in hospitals and in intensive care is acute. That is why Suriname also asked for help from the Netherlands. I understand there has been no response from the cabinet. I ask Minister De Jonge or the Prime Minister to respond. Mr. Chairman. I have a final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people who are late in payment of their health insurance cannot rely on care from the supplementary package;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Medical Care is aware of this and is waiting for a new government;]] [[Whereas, in the long run, delay in care will overburden the care during the coronana drag;]] [[calls on the Government to provide immediate access to care from the supplementary package, regardless of payment status, and not to wait for the formation of a new government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1217]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you, Mr President. As number 15 in line, I have tried to remove everything my colleagues have already said from my contribution in order to avoid duplication. But I'd like to do one thing just like my colleagues. It is the day of nursing and I would like to thank all the healthcare professionals from the hospitals, the elderly, rehabilitation and disability care and home care for their great commitment, commitment and drive. I'm gonna skip two pages and I'm gonna go to the G.G.D. and the corona vaccinations. There too the workload is enormous and there are many vacancies. The GGDs indicate that they lack 6,000 staff to implement the accelerated vaccination strategy. That is a huge task. Can the Minister explain why the GGD is only starting a major online recruitment campaign next week, when it has been known for months that this is coming? How do you think, as stated on page 55 of the letter, that the GGDs are only at full force at the beginning of July? Can we not speed up the training of medically qualified candidates who have also applied to Extra Hands for Care in order to still be able to vaccinate? Fortunately, last Thursday the news came that hospitals are allowed to help in vaccinating. It's not clear to me which hospital is going to do what and when. Besides, a hospital seems to have already been turned down to help. Why is that? Shouldn't we take all the help we have? I'm thinking of the help offered by thousands of paramedics. Their professional association NVDA has received 5,000 applications, but is not heard by the GGD's. Can the Minister explain exactly what that is about? Furthermore, I am concerned about communication. Mr Paternotte said it, too. We have 2.5 million low-lettered people in the Netherlands. The invitation letter for the corona vaccination alone proved completely incomprehensible to this group, as for people with a migration background. That doesn't contribute to these people getting vaccinated. This really needs to be better, as the OMT recommends, and this can be done by involving organisations like the Foundation Reading and Writing and other interest organisations in the preparation of such a letter. If we want people to comply with the corona measures and be vaccinated, communication on this must be clear and understandable to all citizens. That's why I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in the Netherlands there are 2.5 million low-lettered and people with a migration background;]] [[Whereas clear and simple language is important to inform them about the corona vaccinations;]] [[noting that the corona vaccination invitation letter was incomprehensible to this group, which prevented some of this group from being vaccinated;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that communication on corona vaccination is understandable for all target groups and that organisations such as the Reading and Writing Foundation and other interest groups are involved in the development of all means of communication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Paternotte, Mr Kuzu, Mr Simons, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Hermans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1218]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I see that Mrs Van der Plas of BBB is already on her way for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to read an email from a woman who e-mailed me last week about a problem she wants to answer. "Dear Mrs. Van der Plas, after 30 years of KLM, I was fired as a result of the corona crisis. I'm e-mailing you because I'm furious with Minister Tamara's policy of Ark. Since I'm out of work in two months, I want to register as a former nurse again as a nurse in the BIG register. As it turns out, the requirements for re-entry to this register have been increased by 1 January last. We're in the middle of a pandemic and the minister decides to make it harder for nurses to return to care. Probably these plans were already there, but then it makes sense in times of crisis that you fit in with the need that exists at that time. Moreover, it costs me €2,000 to have me re-registered, with a good chance that I won't pass and thus lost €2,000. The worst part is that the course does not fit in with the practice. We're suddenly being tested for skills that most nurses are never going to perform. In my classroom was a retired stewardess. She's 59 and her husband's a doctor. She wants to work as a wound nurse for another eight years. To get her registration, she'll need to bring in bladder catheters, probes and IVs. Insane. The demands that you will ever be able to register again are far too high and far too specialist. There was also a soldier of about 40 years in my group. He's a nurse at the Department of Defense. He was stationed somewhere abroad and got seriously ill there. He was hospitalized and repatriated to a Dutch hospital. When he was finally allowed home, his registration expired by one day. The register knew of no neighborhoods and obliged this military to go back to all trainings and exams. Someone from daily practice who has become ill because of his work. He also indicated that the exam is far from reality. All theoretical models and far too specialised. Another student was there for the second time. She had passed the theory and practice, but had failed the clinical reasoning component. If she had wanted to get her registration before 1 January, she would have had it now because there was previously only a theoretical examination. Practical actions and clinical reasoning depend heavily on where you are going to work and are therefore not universally tested. Something they're doing right now. So now we are qualified, but certainly not competent. This is due to experience and repeated specialist activities with experienced colleagues. I've already given up courage, just like more classmates. Even the teacher who gave the training and is also an examiner said she didn't know exactly what the renewed requirements are and that it's all very vague. I'll find a position elsewhere, outside of care. I've been in charge of ground personnel at Schiphol Airport for 20 years. I was planning on becoming operational manager of a test street now. I thought it would be useful if I had my BIG registration again. I never want to hear again about the deficits in health care, because they are caused by this policy. I sincerely hope that your party will address this to the Minister." That's what I've done. I shall be tabling a motion on this in a moment. Another problem that's going on is the border workers. I have a question about that. I wonder what that's like. There are many border workers at the German and Belgian borders. Now someone e-mailed me too, and that's not the only one, because it's a very large group of people. This is a contract worker who has to cross the border frequently from early July to the last week of August for straw harvesting. Germany, like France, is demanding a negative test. For him, it's gonna mean he's gonna have to get himself tested about 30 times. He has explained to the GGD that this is not convenient and therefore asked whether he could voluntarily be vaccinated in advance. No, Mr. Government prescribes: by category, by risk groups and then by age. It wasn't supposed to be till mid-July. I understand that VNO-NCW and FNV also have questions about this. My question is whether these people can't be vaccinated in advance. Then I would like to touch on Mrs Bikker's thank you. Yesterday I received a message from a lady about "songfestivalgate," so to speak. That's a fat woman, a woman who's worked her ass off in care, where she's been exposed every day as an unvaccinated care worker to the risk of catching COVID-19. No one put her there at the door. Last year this woman had tickets to the song festival and would now again be one of the lucky ones. Only she's not welcome now, while she's been vaccinated, because she has too high a BMI like me. She asked me to stop applause and thank you, but to make sure that no one is excluded in the test society. Do you mind if I read the motions quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u160	You're way past your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u161	Sorry, I thought I had one minute after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u162	Do you have one motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u163	I've got two. One motion corresponds to Mr Van Haga's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u164	Then I'll give you an opportunity to make one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u165	It's about the register. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that admission to the BIG register was increased by 1 January;]] [[noting that re-enterers are made difficult to return to care;]] [[Whereas reducing the pressure on care, now and also in the future, must be the top priority;]] [[calls on the cabinet to postpone the increase in admission to the BIG register until after the COVID-19 pandemic, and now to allow re-entry of nurses after obtaining their theoretical examination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1219]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u166	First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Forum for Democracy. I call Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Something happened before the suspension. Mr Paternotte was struck on his shoulder by my group chairman, Thierry Baudet. The President asked me to say something about this, because we have an agreement in this house that we respect the corona rules. Because the whole cabinet has always said that the mouth caps do not matter and do not add anything, we have said ourselves that we do not. We think that's some kind of symbol. But we'll stick to the rest of the corona measures. Nothing human is strange to us, of course. It happens in a friendly moment. Still, it's wrong. I can imagine that Mr Paternotte thinks that this is inappropriate, even though I do think that he sometimes gives people an elbow. I think that's similar. The intentions weren't bad, but I'll apologize for that. Again, we stick to the corona measures, but we don't put on a mask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u168	Thank you. I appreciate your apology to Mr Paternotte. Indeed, we made an agreement with each other that we should handle the 1.5 meters and not touch each other. Thank you for that. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister for his contribution and then to the appreciation of the motions under his responsibility. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr. Chairman. I actually want to start with the motions, because I can answer a lot of questions on the basis of them. This is probably a model that... no, I'm not about that. But it helps for the conciseness. In the distribution, the idea is that I am talking about the measures that hopefully go into next week, if no stop button is needed, the demand for aid packages and education. The Minister of VWS will talk about roadmap and open plan, issues related to strategy of scaling up and down, longer-term perspective, testing, vaccines and travel. The Minister for Medical Care and Sport about the care capacity, care salaries, sports and the scaling down of regular care. I'd better get right to the motions. On the basis of the motions, I can answer almost all the questions. Then there are a few questions left. The motion in part No. 1185 by Mr Paternotte touches on a question by Mrs Van den Berg about libraries. That question is a little broader, but it also affects libraries. For the sake of clarity, I would suggest that we add libraries to step 2 of the open plan. This means that a new amending regulation must be drawn up, which can be adopted at the earliest today. In view of the legal deadline of one week, that arrangement will then start on Thursday 20 May. So that's a day later than the rest of the package, but there's no other way. We looked at that, but well, then the libraries will go along with step 2 on May 20th. I think I have also answered Mrs van den Berg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u170	Got the motion in part No. 1185 then judge Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u171	Judgment Room. That's right. Then motion to part No. Mr Wilders (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to dissuade them. The risk is smaller, but not absent. The cabinet also mentions the fact that the risk is lower outside. After all, in step 2 things become more possible outside, while inside there are still many limitations. But ending fines for outside measures is a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u172	The motion in part No. 1187 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u173	Yes. The motion in part No. Mr Vandemeulebroucke (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 1190 on restaurants and the Dream Flight. I would, of course, like to do more, but we are concerned about the fact that, although the trends are positive, that falling leg, as Van Dissel calls it, still has to be proved. So there is also a stop button imaginable for next Monday. The odds are getting smaller, but you're still not sure. Weird things can happen to the numbers in the next few days. But at all, we still have to be careful at this stage. So we make choices in scarcity. Hence the open plan, which takes into account various aspects: from outside to inside, from doing individual things to doing more with groups, and social interest, economic interest and recreational interest. I'm gonna finish that, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps Mr Wilders will then be able to respond to my entire speech on this point. The Dijkhoff motion adopted by the Chamber in the previous period was also taken into account, in which it was actually asked to divide the space that exists between different sectors. It looked at the social and socio-economic impacts. That is why I was the first to reopen education earlier this year. Of course, after that, I agree with Mrs Hermans and others, there is always a possibility of discussing exactly how to cut it and figure it out. But these are the overall notions of how we make those choices. I'll walk them by for a short while. The gyms, we believe, play an important role in this step 2 for public health and they bring relaxation. Of course, restaurants also bring relaxation, but they are again less suitable for public health. And the catering industry is of course already partially open and in this step the terraces open much wider. The restaurants will be discussed in step 3, if we will also make more possible inside. Then the fairgrounds. For the fairgrounds, these are temporary events, which are also subject to authorisation. In that sense, they look like the rest of the events. We're gonna take it with us in step 4. Again, you always have a sum of all these measures and things. It leads to all kinds of additional transport movements and risks. Hence the fairgrounds in step 4. We have chosen to out-form recreational activities, because the risk of contamination is reduced. Hence the Dream Flight and the other inner spaces of the flow-through locations remain closed. We make, I think, in step 2 a really exciting decision again, because we are again at 730 people in intensive care today. There are less than a week ago, the number is falling, but we are still not sure whether this decline is going to continue. We are not even sure whether we should press the stop button. So my point of view would be: caution at step 2. We add the libraries which were of course already partly active for the collection of books and for vulnerable groups. We move along with that. I think that is acceptable and understandable, but I think we should leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u174	Thank you. This means that Mr Wilders' motions on item No. 1188 and in part No 1190.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u175	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u176	If you're from D66 and you're filing a motion on the libraries, a good motion, by the way, it's settled in a minute. But if you're from the PVV and you come up with a good story, then it's different. Mr President-in-Office, if you open the gyms and add the libraries to phase 2 in a sigh, then you are actually saying that you are allowed to work out inside, or with some people, of course, to go and get books or to read books in the library. The difference between the different interior spaces is not there. It is not a question of saying that it is also a matter of interrupting the VVD colleague or something fun for the people or not. The criterion must be whether contamination occurs. If you say that there may be sports indoors, then the chances of getting infected there are greater than in a restaurant, where you don't move, where you are. I'm gonna hold on to that. And the movements towards them are the same. You also have to go to the gym, you also have to go to the restaurant. So I insist it's random. And I'm not even talking about the fairgrounds. That's outside. The fairgrounds are completely destroyed in the Netherlands. They're barely getting support. We will no longer have fairs in the Netherlands in a moment, so I find that horrible anyway. I'm asking you to think again about the fairgrounds. But about the restaurants and the indoor spaces at amusement parks. You really cannot insist that you do not open it, when you do at the libraries and at the gyms. Then what do you say to the catering company? It's not allowed on you, while the risk of contagion is probably less on you than at gyms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u177	The point with the libraries is that they are already open for the collection of ordered books and the return of books. They are also open to organised and private daily spending for vulnerable groups. We've already taken care of that. They may, if linked to a vocational or higher education institution, be open to self-study for students enrolled in the relevant educational institution. This is already the case with libraries. So I think Fathernotte's request and others are limited. It's not like we're going from nothing to everything. Actually, the request is from D66: take the final step. I think we can do this. Then the division, from the outside to the inside. Yes, of course we have arranged for the catering industry that the terraces now open from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. instead of 12 noon to 6 p.m. So that's a big extension. Inside, you have to make choices. We said: let's see if in that next step, step 2, which is mainly outside, we can do something inside at one point. Actually, it's two things. We also do it for people who practice culture in very small clubs themselves, but not with performances. We are indeed doing it for those gyms, because you just see that there is a serious health risk. That is once again the broader consideration we need to make of the very limited epidemiological space that exists. I have just mentioned the social, social and economic effects. We also do the cross-cutting test on the health situation in the Netherlands. We think it is wise to open very limited gyms. There must be no great lessons with 30 people. There may be up to 30 people in a room, but they may work with up to 2 people at 1.5 meters. So that's all limited. You have to make careful choices in that. I think it's a good thing that in the Efteling, on Pampus and you name it, we can open it outside, but inside we really shouldn't do that on this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u178	Again: if you are allowed to work out in a sports room with 30 men with up to 2 at the same time, why can't a catering entrepreneur also open with up to 30 men, with as far as I am concerned up to 2 men at a table? Why can't I? Why doesn't the same rules apply? Surely you agree with me that this seems to be arbitrary from the company, from that catering company or from that company of amusement parks? You are indeed making exceptions for libraries and gyms. So you can't say anymore: we're not doing anything in the inner spaces now. 'Cause you do. You are even adding it on the spot tonight, although I admit that some of the libraries had already been opened. Then a catering entrepreneur thinks: why are you allowed to go to the gym with 30 and up to 2? Do you realize that's what entrepreneurs think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u179	Of course I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u180	We can have a reasonable debate on this, can't we? Then it is not unreasonable to ask: can you not also take a step further for the catering industry? Again, on the picture of what's been opening up since the press conference, that's the only red spot. I printed it in my room. That's the hospitality inside. They've been caught first and come back last. The terrace is of course very good news. The fact that it may be open longer is also good news. But do something for the indoor spaces, even if it's limited, just like for sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u181	Indoor spaces are limited in many more places. If the sense of justice is the issue, then the gyms must get out of this step. Then we shouldn't do the gyms. Then we have to say that we don't do the gyms in step 2. I think that's really unwise. We have always been asked, by the Dijkhoff motion: take small steps over a broad front. We have arranged that the terraces from 12:00 to 18:00 are now from 6:00 in the morning until 8:00 in the evening. It's from the outside to the inside. I find it completely irresponsible to do more now than those gyms. There's just no room. Of course Wilders is absolutely right that the difference is limited in what the risks are, but it is the sum of the risks. That means a lot more people are going to do things inside. There's no room. If that creates a feeling of injustice, you have to say: we do not do the gyms. You can't say: because the gyms, the restaurants. That's not gonna happen in this step. That's what we're trying to put at gunpoint in step 3. We shouldn't do that in step 2. I get it all. I'd love to, too. I'm not standing here like some kind of family man who says, "I can't do it." We are still dealing with a pressure on care, with over 700 people in intensive care. We are doing it the worst of all of Europe, after Sweden, by far the worst of all of Europe. There is no country with as many infectious as the Netherlands. We're gonna take this step anyway. I think it's all very exciting. We really should not provide this with any further risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u182	Finally. You shouldn't object to that. I didn't do any of that. I didn't make those choices either. Don't tell me now: if we do this, we won't. I'm standing up for that catering entrepreneur. That's my right. They're entitled to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u183	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u184	If there's randomness, they do. Then you must not blame me for making sure that something else is closed immediately. No, I'm standing up for that catering entrepreneur who's always been screwed, now the only one who sees that he's not here. He says there can be 30 men in a gym, why not 30 men in my shop? Forgive me for sticking up for the catering company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u185	Of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u186	Anyway, we don't agree on that. Finally, I have a question about the fairgrounds. Our mailboxes are full of them. The carnival owners are having a huge hard time in the Netherlands. You say that it is part of the events, but it is just entrepreneurs who are already receiving almost no support or are eligible for it and who are immediately simply disappearing. Kermis are outdoors. There are also protocols they have made. Why can't you take a step? It's outdoors. This fits in with your schedule: first step in the outdoors and now do not do too much in the indoors. Why can't you do something with those carnival people? At least sit with them at the table and explain when you can. We just lose the fairgrounds in the Netherlands if we don't do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u187	First of all, I'm not blaming Wilders. He's just standing up for the cause he wants to stand up for, and I fully respect that. My only point, and perhaps that's my frustration, is that I agree with him that there is a big agreement between a gym and a restaurant: both 30 max, in small groups. The point is just the sum total. We are trying to see how you can distribute the limited epidemiological space neatly and still reduce the risks somewhat. We think it is wise to make the choice for the gyms, where everything can be done in the hospitality industry, also because of public health. That also has to do with the broader consideration, so that's why. So there is no blame to Wilders on that point. He's right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u188	Mr Wilders also asked if you would like to talk...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u189	The fairgrounds are indeed another point. I'll see if those conversations are happening. That's what we'll come back to in the follow-up letter. I don't do that myself, but I'll see if Koolmees' economic cluster, Van 't Wout and Hoekstra have any specific conversations. I'm not quite sure if it was Mrs Keijzer. I'll check it out. We shall then return to that in the next letter, I say for the officials as well. But this is indeed where it comes in that they are temporary events. They walk along in step 4 with the rest of the events that are subject to license.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u190	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Hermans and then by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u191	I'm gonna keep going at the fairs. I listened to the Prime Minister's reaction and the interruption of Mr Wilders. These are outdoor activities. It is true that this is formally an event for which you need a permit. But you could also say what it's been all night about... Mr Wilders calls it "random." I think I used the word 'contradiction' in a debate with Mrs Van Esch. You could actually see a carnival as you see the Efteling, although the Dream flight is not open. I also understand that it can't be done immediately. In that I go along with the government's reasoning. But could it be considered, in the discussion the Prime Minister is examining whether this is being conducted, whether it could not be taken into account in step 3? Then the fair is not looked at as a licensed event, but as a variant in a flow-through location or an amusement park like the Efteling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u192	Yeah, so they're in step four now. Wilders says do it in step 2. Mrs Hermans says: see if you can do it in step 3. I'd like to do that. I'm not gonna promise hard, because I really want to check it out legally. It is so difficult, it is really complex, that you have to take legal vulnerabilities into account in all these points in the open plan. So if there are exceptions, we see that we do not do something that others say: yes, but then we may. Our lawyers are watching that, and Ferd Grapperhaus is right on top of that. So I'm gonna check that out. Can you see the fairgrounds in such a way that it can be done in step 3, without bringing forward all the licensed events in step 4? Yeah, we're gonna check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u193	I would like to continue with the carnival operators. In reply to the question about libraries, just before the motion, the Prime Minister said that he was right to respond to Mrs Van den Berg's question. It's nice to have the libraries open next Thursday. But we also had a very specific question about this. A few months ago, a motion was adopted by my colleagues Palland and Amhaouch on the dynamic licensing process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u194	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u195	You'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u196	Oh, yeah, I've got that completely separate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u197	Hopefully that will be with a concrete date, because the last time we received only process information. There is talk, but no result. If the directives are now available, we can start preparing for stage 3, in which they can be opened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u198	Okay. I'll be right back to the dynamic licensing. I'll get to the prisons. That was the motion in part No. 1201 by Mr Van Haga. I'd like to discourage that motion. The DJI follows the RIVM guidelines for the safety of everyone. The visit to the judicial authorities is permitted in all judicial establishments. For children, physical contact is also possible in most places, through so-called parent-child days. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 1201, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u199	This is, of course, a bit of a difficult group, for which no one normally comes to mind. Of course, it's a bit like the people sitting in the corner where the blows take place. Now I'm used to it, so I think it's good to stand up for this group. It seems that different rules already apply in the various penitentiary establishments. The family members are therefore the partners and the children are treated in different ways. For example, if a child sees his father or mother now, this means that the prisoner must be quarantined for ten days. Those are penalties that seem unreasonable to me. People being punished is fine. We are also in favour of law and order, but we are surprised that the corona measures are making a punishment inhumane. I would appreciate it if we could look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u200	Visiting is, of course, possible. It is not the case that prisoners should then be quarantined, because the visit takes place behind plexiglass. In addition, establishments organise parent-child activities where possible where physical visits without plexiglass are possible between parents and children under 13 years of age under strict conditions. Because there is physical contact here, prisoners go into quarantine after that. They agree with that in advance. Of course, I understand the concern. We are making every effort to ensure that everything goes as well as possible. This is not just about the prisoners, but also about the staff. I would therefore like to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u201	It's two separate problems after all. Those partners see their inmate partners behind plexiglass for over a year. I really think that's an inhumane measure. A prisoner must agree to seeing his or her child, but must therefore agree to ten days of quarantine. You can't sell that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u202	There are people working in those prisons, aren't there, Mr. Van Haga? We also have to take into account their safety, don't we? It's not like you can just do that, is it? If there's a risk of transfer, of course you have to look at it. Physical contact is possible, but in that case prisoners also agree to quarantine. That's what they do in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u203	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u204	Well, finally? The Prime Minister is not answering that first point at all. So partners have been seeing each other behind plexiglass for over a year, when they can normally see each other physically. This is an inhuman deprivation of liberty, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u205	We're in a terrible pandemic, aren't we? Don't we have people working in these prisons who need protection? Surely we can't take any chances with the staff? What we're doing seems reasonable to me. It is all bad and I also think it is right that Van Haga should draw attention to this. But I don't think it's unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u206	I think it's really insane to hear this! Of course we are in a pandemic and of course there are rules, but there must be a way to find a solution, so that people with an inmate partner do not have to see each other behind plexiglass? Surely I'm asking for a basic human measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mr President, I have replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u208	Here too, Mr President, because like Mr Van Haga, I am in contact with someone who has been seeing her partner from behind plexiglass for a year. Maybe it's the same person. Surely there must be more to be done about this? I am thinking, for example, of testing. Isn't this an example of a situation where you can weigh risks through proper testing and make sure people can see each other again? We're talking about people who are each other's partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u209	Yeah, that's true. Mr De Jonge says behind me that this whole group, both the guards and the inmates, are in the vaccination programme in the short term. So it has to be fixed quickly. Shall we agree that before the next progress letter we should ask the Justice Department how it relates to the vaccination programme? Then Van Haga's point can also be answered. What about the kids is clear. Furthermore, you know in advance that you have to quarantine after physical contact. Van Haga says: but what about the partners? I get that question. Once again, in the light of the pace of vaccination, I would ask colleagues from the Justice Department to make a contribution to the next progress letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u210	So it seems to be getting much worse, because now the vaccination is being brought in. You're gonna let a convict see his partner when he's vaccinated. We have just adopted a motion, which was supported by everyone on the VVD, D66, BET1 and Volt, which states that we do not want to have an indirect or direct vaccination obligation. Surely it cannot be that prisoners are indirectly forced to be vaccinated to see their partner for the first time after plexiglass for the first time in a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u211	No, I'm not. You're absolutely right about that. That is why I ask the Justice Department to address your concerns in the next letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u212	The Prime Minister will come back to it next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u213	In the next progress letter we will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u214	The motion in part No. 1201 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u215	The motion in part No. 1203 I advise. We can only lift the ban if events can take place epidemiologically. Unfortunately, that is uncertain at the moment. At least, the moment is uncertain, just as all the dates in the open plan are uncertain. So we cannot anticipate that. Moreover, there is a quarantine scheme for the sector in the making. But the motion in part No. 1203 I therefore advise against. On the motion in part No. 1204 I've had it for a while. No, about the motion in part No. 1204 I haven't had it yet, Mr. Chairman! As mentioned in the recitals, this motion conflicts with the basic rule of the 1.5 metres. We cannot go along with that and I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 1204. The motion in part No. 1205 on the vo I would advise against. We said something about this yesterday in the press conference, namely that we are asking the OMT under which epidemiological conditions the release of the 1.5 metres is possible earlier than the moment of step 3 which they have now advised. We will take a decision on 25 May on each occasion when that could be justified. Moreover, many agreements have already been made in education in order to be able to teach safely. That has also landed in the generic framework. This will have to be updated after the full opening, with agreements on testing and quarantine still in place. We expect that students will have to keep a distance of up to 1.5 metres from the teaching staff and that teaching staff will also have to keep that distance between themselves. This is in line with the situation as it was last autumn, where the teacher was in the front of the classroom in a box and the children could all be in the classroom. So we're going to look into it in that context. As a result, a question has been asked about higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u216	So the motion on piece 1205 is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u217	It's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u218	Mrs. Van Esch's motion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u219	On the basis of that motion, perhaps the SGP's question on higher education. The 1.5 meter is the basic measure and this also applies to students. I don't expect this to be released before the summer. At present, students can take about one day of physical education. MBO and higher education can be organized as normally as possible after the summer. This is now being developed with the sector. This is an answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u221	I believe that both motions I have just tabled have been discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u222	This was the motion in part No. 1205, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u223	Yes. The one in part No. 1204 was before, about cultural institutions and libraries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u224	We haven't had that yet. That's the motion in part No. 1206.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u225	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u226	No, I haven't. Let's see...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u227	Maybe the Prime Minister can make the motion in part no. 1206 now also deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u228	Yes. Dissuade, indeed. As far as libraries are concerned, of course, I have already said that, in addition to what is already possible, we are going to make libraries more flexible. But it is really not wise to add the cultural institutions to that. Here too, I can very well imagine that there is a parallel, as Mr Wilders just said there is a parallel between gyms and restaurants. But it is the sum of the number of movements. That goes for here, too. The opening-up of cultural institutions is now foreseen in step 3. I do not think it is wise to put that into step 2, because we are already doing a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u229	Indeed, I wanted to speak on that motion first. That's mainly because I notice the following. The Dijkhoff motion was just called in. There was talk of giving some room for manoeuvre to all sectors. You said that I am carrying out the Chamber's motion; all sectors have a little room for manoeuvre. We have given the catering industry a very small amount of space, and now fortunately also the libraries, and we have given the education a very small amount of space. But the cultural sector has zero space so far. There are no museums open, there is no possibility for the theatres. There is, at least with me, the feeling that there is arbitrariness there. We can go to the Primark, the shops are open, but we still can't visit a museum. So I do not think the Dijkhoff motion was properly implemented. Because it was just about all sectors a little bit. What about culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u230	I get it all. But step 3. I'd love to, but I really don't have to do it now. We can't have that. Then we should get other things out of this step. I also sometimes understand the feeling of injustice. I didn't blame Wilders. Of course, he has a point when he talks about restaurants versus gyms. And, of course, you have a point about cultural institutions. But if we allow that to be dominant, we must remove that feeling of injustice by taking something out of step 2. Let's really do it in step 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u231	Well, it's still unfair, I think. That, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u232	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u233	Then just a little bit back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u234	But it can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u235	I expected nothing but that my motion on education would be discouraged. I understand that from the cabinet's point of view, but I do not understand that from the point of view of all the children and young people who have been waiting so long for good education. I would ask you to respond to the urgent request and also to the urgent concerns expressed by the Children's Ombudsman in her plea last week. These young people must shape the future of the Netherlands. It is very urgent to say that it is really very important for them to open. I would like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u236	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u237	'Cause I'm really worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u238	I understand. But it's true that the schools were ahead of us. We have really taken risks with primary schools and with secondary education. At present, children in secondary education have an average of two and a half days a week. In the schools that I'm involved in, I see that the other half of the class will participate via Zoom. Of course, that is far from ideal, but they will be back at school a few days later or the following week. We do that now; it's actually half occupied. That's really the maximum we can do right now. The OMT outlines the risks and is clear about them. If you look at the state of epidemiology, then it's really a big extra blow in favour of the virus if you opened it now. That might be different in a few weeks, if we drop faster and the number of infections will also decrease further, which you sincerely hope. It also has to do with the state of vaccination. If the children do get within 1.5 meters, we run the risk that they will take it home and that they will just infect the group that has not yet been vaccinated at home. That's where the problem is. We have asked the OMT: show us under what circumstances, epidemiologically speaking, the release would be possible earlier. I'd like that, too, if you don't mind. At least on 25 May we are going to make a decision every time we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u239	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u240	Finally. Look, these are all arguments for not opening up education, but I'm weighing it against the fact that we've opened all the shops. I can't believe we're gonna say, "Go travel." The negative travel advice will be removed, which also entails a great deal of risk. I still find it incomprehensible that we say "well, we can all go shopping again, we can all fly again and go on holiday abroad," but that we can't let more children in Holland go to school. I really feel like we're making the wrong choices and setting the wrong priorities. I don't think that's gonna be a good explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u241	I'm glad I get the chance, because I don't want people shopping at all. We don't want that at all. At present, up to one person per 25 square meters is allowed to enter a shop alone and as short as possible. It's really limited. It's not like you're allowed to shop. You're not gonna do fun-shopping with all of us. One person can go into the store. You're trying to keep an eye on that. You're not going shopping with the whole family. At least that would be the wrong look. The shopkeepers have a great responsibility in the shopping streets, especially the big shops, the Albert Heijns, the Bijenkorven or the IKEA's "The IKEA's" often sit outside the city, but in any case keep an eye on the big shops in the shopping street "The Bijenkorven" or the IKEA's "The IKEA's" are a bit neat. But this also applies to the limitation of one per 25 square metres. The schools opened first. We have really taken a risk with the opening of primary education and then taken a risk with secondary education. I think it's justified that we did that. It was a responsible risk. But the image that the schools hang in the back as I hear it now and then is really not true. They were leading the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u242	Thank you. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to shorten...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u243	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u244	I want to make one more mini-point. Probably very busy, but why don't you take a walk around shopping streets and see what's going on right now? It may be that the advice is given not to go shopping, but the big crowds in shopping streets and the risk that is being taken there are simply present. Then we could also take a risk letting more children go to school. I think that's really essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u245	When I cycle here in The Hague, for example, through the Grote Marktstraat, I can see that it is busy. That's right. I have to say, however, that the big shops, in that sense, take care to ensure that outside there is such a snake of people to be able to enter. At the store it is neatly indicated how many people are allowed in at the same time, set against the one per 25 square meters. It looks busy, but if you cycle through it, you can see that there is a proper monitoring, also with stewards, which is kept between themselves. It doesn't go well everywhere. I agree with Mrs Van Esch. It certainly is not going well everywhere, but I can see that the retail trade is trying to manage that well. It's all disastrously complicated. We're really in a terrible movie. We must indeed make choices that are not all very precise to defend, but where the main line runs from the outside to the inside across a broad front. You also look at health care aspects, at social aspects, at education. In this way, we try to divide the limited space as wisely as possible over and over again. Then the motion to part No. 1210 about the sex workers. That's what Court of Justice is for. It is a continuation of existing policies. Furthermore, on the issue of sex workers, I promised Mrs Simons... She's not here right now, but maybe we can tip her off that she's trying to nail the Acts. I would like to thank her for the inventory of bottlenecks that we have received. I am very grateful to her for that. Those signals are welcome and valuable. Now, in step 2, it's settled. Hopefully this can also alleviate the most experienced bottlenecks she has reported. What Mrs Simons sent me in inventory shows is that there are huge differences within the sex workers group. As a result, there is also a difference in the arrangements which sex workers can claim. I am absolutely aware that there are sex workers who do not feel sufficiently supported by the aid package. At the end of this month, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment will discuss support and income measures with representatives of sex workers, as well as violence against sex workers in corona time. I wanted to say this in response to the previous debate. I promised that to Mrs Simons. Maybe we can tip her off through the Registry, so that she can read back this part of the report. Again, thank you. This also affects a question from the Christian Union about sex workers. Yes, the support measures are therefore also open to sex workers who, for reasons of health or safety, are unable or unwilling to continue working. So the answer to the question is yes. The motion in part No. 1213 of the SGP on group accommodations: Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1214 I must advise against. The Chamber calls for a solution for the problem group. The solution is accompanied by great inefficiency. In view of this great inefficiency, I must advise against this motion, in the light of the letter of inquiry which has been sent. Then I come to a few questions that have remained. First of all, a question from the SP about ventilation in schools: that is slow; how many schools are not properly ventilated? The internal climate is the responsibility of the schools themselves. Fortunately, most schools are already working on this. The first 100 million grant for ventilation measures, called SUVIS, was almost entirely requested and granted. Schools take measures to improve ventilation, including accompanying measures. Space O.R. helps schools with questions about ventilation. At lesaf distance.nl/ventilation the hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand ventilation can be found, where appropriate measures and advice can be found, also for examination locations. Corona measures should also be observed at the examination sites, such as one and a half metres away. If the pupils are seated, wearing a mouth cap is not mandatory. It is if students go through the school building. Then there is Mrs van den Berg's question about the consultation with the VNG on dynamic licensing. The granting of permits is a responsibility of municipalities, advised by the security region. The assessment of whether and in what form events can be organised in their municipality or region is therefore with them. They know the local conditions and can therefore make the best possible assessment. I think it is important that, if events are to be organised again, within the framework, the applicant parties should be given as much space as possible. With the VNG, the cabinet is talking to see how licensing processes do not need to suffer unnecessary delays at this particular time and can actually take place. The VNG indicates that many municipalities already deal with licensing in a dynamic way. There is therefore no need for a directive. Then there is the question of the support package. To this end, we are going to spend the third quarter of the year, and I have already said this: we have not suddenly stopped the aid, because it has kept many companies going. The analyses of the CPB and De Nederlandsche Bank also show in themselves that the economy has survived well and that we can also rely on the underlying strength of the economy, but that much remains to be done. It looks at both the continuation of aid packages in any form as well as the capital position and debt positions of companies. Later this month, at least in May, the three finance ministers, EZK and SZW, will come up with a proposal on how the support will look in the third quarter. We're working on that right now. The letter from the Netherlands-SME will also be discussed. This is also reflected in our roadmap. This is based on the principle that regional policy should only be "vigilant," i.e. at the lightest and least serious stage. That really is the lesson of September and October. I wouldn't want to make that mistake again. Mr Stoffer had a specific question about the repayment of debts. This is in fact in line with the VVD and CDA's question about when the cabinet will come up with an opinion on the support package. I have just briefly mentioned that it involves the repayment of debts and corporate debt positions and equity positions. I therefore believe that I have made an attempt to answer all the questions in my area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u246	Thank you. First of all, there is an interruption by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u247	The Prime Minister went very fast when he made the motion in part no. 1214 betrayed. It's about the Meeting Fixed Charges. I really think that's too skinny. We received a letter yesterday saying, in fact, that I have a dilemma and I don't know how to get out, so I'm not doing anything. There are a lot of start-ups who, for example, have been remodelling and have been properly registered, but for which that reference period is not adequate. The Prime Minister's answer is: I'm just not doing anything; it's hard or the money comes back in the wrong place, so I'm not going to look at any other variations either. The CDA really wants something to happen for these groups, that there will be customization and that there will be a clear plan before 18 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u248	When I look at the signature, I think the motion's gonna make it. And then the cabinet will also implement it, but that means that we are making the explicit choice here that the problem of the effectiveness of the solution goes. The cabinet will implement the solution, as outlined, but this means that efficiency is reduced priority. That's a political choice we'll make. It's all not free. That's fine, but that's the choice we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u249	I think this is an easy remark. You have to pawn and weigh between the implementation problems that exist and the question of whether the money ends up where it is needed. The letter gives a few examples, in the sense of: if we do so, the money does not end up where it is intended to go. We would now like confirmation from the Prime Minister that he is going to carry out the motion if it is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u250	Yeah, if it's accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u251	At least it's nice to hear that, even if it's not recommended. Secondly, we do not want a solution to be chosen which will increase the money for the companies that have already received money. We want this new category to be chosen in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u252	Yeah, but you can't. It's bullshit what Mrs. Van den Berg says. That's not possible. The letter states exactly that if this motion is adopted, the cabinet will carry it out, but that it will be at the expense of efficiency. There's no other way. That's a choice. That is also acceptable, but Mrs van den Berg now wants both: she wants it to be effective and the motion to be implemented. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u253	Mrs Van den Berg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u254	We analyzed it. The letter shows that. That is the misery of this crisis. That is why money is going to end up in places where it is not effective, but it may not be a disaster either. That's a political choice. That's what the motion requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u255	Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u256	It's a choice between my advice not to, because it's inefficient... But I can also live with the other solution. That's up to the majority. But it is not that if that motion is adopted, we could suddenly delete the problem, because we would not have sent that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u257	Mrs Van den Berg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u258	Finally, Mr President. Here it is said that 65% of the additional aid will end up where it is not really necessary...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u259	Yeah, that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u260	I understand that there is less efficiency in implementation. But perhaps there is still a third method, so that a better balance can be struck. I'd like to give that to you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u261	No, that's all been looked at, so let's not think there's anything left to come up with. I don't think it's there. If the motion is adopted, EZK, then Mrs Keijzer and Mr Van 't Wout will undoubtedly look again to see if you can close it, but you really have to assume that a lot of money will end up inefficient. But that doesn't have to be a disaster either. We are in a crisis in which it is sometimes inevitable, but that is a political choice that we all make with open eyes. However, I cannot promise Mrs Van den Berg a pleasant night's sleep by saying: we accept the motion and it is effective. I can't. We are going to do our best, but a lot of money will end up in places where it is not desirable. But once again, I think that is acceptable under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u262	Thank you for allowing me first, because I am also the first signatory to this motion. Look, we're getting a little stuck here. If we only put this motion to the vote on Tuesday, it will be 18 May. That's the deadline. Then it has to be done. So if the Prime Minister says, "I'm detaching the motion, and we're not executing her until she's adopted," then it's going to go wrong in time. So if this is gonna be about it, we're gonna do it inefficiently. Then we'll do it practically, because I'll put the motion to the vote tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u263	Well, that's between you two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u264	In any case, I would like to request that we vote on all the urgent motions this evening. This means, however, that we will have to suspend for a very short time, and that we will have to indicate which motions we are dealing with. I hope you will agree with that, so we will only vote on the urgent motions. I'm gonna take a look at the hall, too. That's fine. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u265	It is good to hear that the Prime Minister, even when it costs money, is always going to carry out motions that have been passed. I hope he will take a moment to consider the motion on salaries in health care. My question was about education. The Prime Minister says that the ventilation plans are getting under way. I can see that's a little more nuanced. A committee has first been set up, as is the case. But it's been done for nine months. If we are now approaching the moment when a decision is going to be taken on the reopening of schools, then I think we need more information than whether it is going fast or not. I understand that the Prime Minister can't pull such a percentage out of his pocket right now, but I'd appreciate it if we could hear exactly what's going on, including those exam locations. This means that hundreds of children can be in the same room for a period of two to three hours. So I think it is good to take a critical look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u266	Then let's do it like I'm passing on officially... On May 25th we get the OMT advice and then we decide when the whole thing can be opened. I cannot now see whether what Mr Kwint is asking for is to be delivered in this way, but the question is understood. We're gonna answer it as much as we can in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u267	I would like to amend my motion on the fairgrounds. Unfortunately, I cannot get them open again immediately, but Mrs Hermans and I both thought it would be nice if at least that happened before the fourth stage; hence I would like to amend the next one. I would like to change the text 'calls on the government to make fairgrounds possible immediately' to 'calls on the government to seriously consider whether fairgrounds in step 3 can be reopened'. And the motion for a resolution, which is the second amendment, will then be co-signed by Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u268	The Wilders motion (No ) has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Wilders and Mr Hermans and reads: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to seriously consider whether fairgrounds in step 3 can be reopened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She's getting No. , was No. 1188 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u269	Yeah, with that text, the verdict is "Room."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u270	Then the motion gets to part No. 1220 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u271	Then I'm gonna make room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u272	Thank you. Then we're gonna clean up for a minute, and then I'm gonna give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States. As far as the motions are concerned, I would just like to say that an e-mail will be sent so that you can indicate by e-mail which motions will have to be put to the vote this evening. That's the easiest thing to do. The Registrar may then also draw up the voting list. Thank you for your cooperation. Then I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u273	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to do the answer as follows. First, the questions about vaccination. Then there are the questions about the longer term, i.e. the open plan and perhaps the time after that. And then I have a few more questions about travel, testing and vulnerable groups, but there are really only a few. First of all, the questions about vaccinations. The vaccination campaign is coming on steam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u274	Excuse me. And when are you going to make the motions? All the way to the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u275	No, in between, by the cubes. I will take the motions with me on a subject-by-issue basis. I think that's the most practical thing to do. Mr. Chairman. The vaccination campaign is coming on steam and that's nice. That is why we have actually reached our first and perhaps most important milestone in the second half of May. That was what we wanted. That was about the people 60 years of age and over and the people with a high medical risk. Also, with the use of your Room, it has been possible to do the people who are eligible for the flu shot every year in the short term. That's going very well. That group is moving very fast right now. In addition, it has been possible to vaccinate all people who work in care with vulnerable people at that first milestone of the second half of May. That's important, because that's what we did. With all the challenges surrounding the supply of vaccines, it is really nice that that has been achieved. And as it appears, deliveries will only go up in the future. This means that there can be an acceleration in the vaccination campaign. That too is very promising. That does not mean, of course, that the final challenge has been resolved. This is also the subject of several Members' questions. First of all, there is the concern about the delivery of Janssen. I cannot deny that Mr Paternotte's concerns are justified. We understand that there are production problems at the plant in the United States. That means that we are not quite sure about Janssen's deliveries. I showed you in the letter last night until when we know the delivery. You could say that it's almost exemplary for Astra, and actually for Janssen, that we actually only know for a few weeks in advance what they're delivering. At Astra, we also know that what we know usually doesn't match reality as it happens. That makes it very complicated planning. At Janssen we haven't taken that experience on our own yet. We only fear for more limited deliveries. That does not mean that the next milestone of early July, namely that at least all people can have the first shot, has already been called into question. But I am always saying: the plan is in early July, but of course it is based on deliveries as we can expect them to be. We expect 3 million Janssen pebbles in that second quarter, so those Janssen vaccines are very relevant to reach the milestone. Another factor is, of course, the employability of vaccines; I will get to that in a moment. You can see that different countries make choices in this, also on the basis of experiences in the United States, for example, or on the basis of their own modelling and research. With us, the Health Council of course also advises on Astra's commitment. This can also advise on the use of Janssen on the basis of new data. This means that we will always have to relate to the latest state of science. In addition, we are, of course, very dependent on people's willingness to be vaccinated. I'll get back to you on that, too. In short, the most important milestone, namely the vaccination of the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them in the second half of May, is a milestone that we are going to achieve anyway. Then the next milestone is that everyone can at least get that first shot at the beginning of July. I expect that we will be able to make it, but of course there are still a number of uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u276	Are you done with the block of vaccination? Not yet, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u277	No, not by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u278	That's a big block, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u279	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u280	As a result of the Bergkamp/Wilders motion, there has of course been an opinion from the Health Council on the one-prick strategy, with the Health Council considering it. The Minister said: then I must have the 1.5 million people waiting somewhere in May for that second Pfizer or Modernaprick cancelled. I don't think that's a good idea. They're generally scheduled now, of course. That's about to happen in the next two weeks, I think. But if Janssen's deliveries are disappointing, my question is: isn't there any reason to see if you want to go more into that one-prick strategy in the future, to make sure that the chance is greater that before July 1st almost all the Dutch, all those adults, can have that first shot? Because the Health Council gives that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u281	It could be. There are a number of motions and there are also a number of referrals. They all have something to do with each other. The interval is important for the coming period. You can see that we at least gave everyone that first shot. That's how you look at it, of course. What we are increasingly looking at is that I think you will have to shorten the interval as time passes and as you come more towards the end of the vaccination program. So you're gonna have to shorten that instead of prolonging it. So the most current discussion is: how far can we go back by shortening the interval? An example is the group of 60- to 64-year-olds. If you were going to vaccinate that group with the current, much leaner deliveries than we ever thought, with an interval of twelve weeks, we'd be done with that really deep in the summer. Of course, we don't want that. We're actually trying to shorten that interval. So the question that is currently being asked by the Health Council is whether we can shorten that interval much further without sacrificing too much protection. This means that we can have fully vaccinated the group of 60-64 year olds before. That's what we care about. This also means that if AstraZenecapezets are released or start to get over it, they really are for something else, such as international donation or offering an opt-in option, although that which will be later in time can be used. Mr Paternotte is right. If there are any major changes in the target group's commitment, which means that the planning has to be reviewed at all, then you also have to look again at a one-prick strategy. In this case you can indeed call less on Astra or possibly on Janssen, but you should call more on Pfizer's first shot. There are now so many variables in that planning conceivable, so is that actually going to make us a profit? I honestly don't expect that immediately, but you should always be willing to reconsider what that might help with protection. The most important thing about protection is that at least the 60-plus group, the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them were done in the second half of May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u282	Good. If it is necessary to adopt this one-prick strategy by June, I hope that the Minister will be able to tell us about it soon. There's something else that does touch this. There's another situation in America. In New York they all now have locations where tourists can have the Janssen vaccine shot. Now I have a couple of stewards from a certain airline on the app or on Twitter and they say: I went there for a moment. There are more people who are border workers or are vaccinated abroad with an EMA-approved vaccine for any other reason. We do want them to have access to the vaccination certificate or to the exception to the quarantine. Is the Minister prepared to make that possible for these people? If that leads to a few thousand people getting that prick abroad, then other Dutch people are getting it sooner. That just sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u283	This is an exotic corner of registration, you know, so I'm not just gonna say yes to that. We need to get the SIM central registration system filled as soon as possible in the near future. We would like to add other source systems. We will, of course, also have to devise an alternative route for vaccinations that have been placed elsewhere or whose registration cannot be automatically linked. But these are vaccines that have even been put abroad. In the long run, then, you should actually create the possibility that these people can get a domestic link to the check app based on their foreign vaccination certificate. Yeah, we'll be a little bit further before we've organized that. The main route is most important to me, to be honest. It is, of course, quite exciting what has to be done, not only in legal terms, but also in technical terms. This will be one of the exception categories for which we need to find a solution. In the end, of course, that solution must be devised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u284	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u285	That brought me to the questions about Janssen's commitment. Yes, there are possible setbacks in production and delivery, but for the time being we have to deal with the assumptions as we were allowed to do on the basis of the contacts with the suppliers. Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland have indeed said that they will stop either Astra or Astra or Janssen. With all the possibilities we see at the Nordics to take over some of their vaccines, we raise our finger. We do not only do that; other countries do that. Some of the vaccines they will have left will be donated via COVAX. In particular, Sweden is doing so. I understand that. For the other Member States in this list, they will offer their share pro rata to the countries that have raised their finger. That's the expectation. The final agreement has not yet been reached, but it is the expectation. Again, the Netherlands is not only standing in line, but we raise our finger for everything we can get either to use it ourselves or to redistribute it via COVAX or another system. Then there is Mr Wilders' question about AstraZeneca for 60- to 64-year-olds. I just indicated that I want to shorten the interval for that group, so that we make sure these people have been vaccinated before. The image is variable. Yes, I recognize the stories Mr Wilders sketches. I also get that in the mailbox and I also see it on social media. I understand that people think because of all the messages: if I could have chosen, I might have preferred Pfizer. I would like to say to Mr Wilders that I agree with him that we are very vigilant about the safety of vaccines. From the vaccines that the government is programming for a certain age group, people can assume that they are safe, reliable and effective on the basis of the latest state of science. This is also the reason why we offer AstraZeneca for 60- to 64-year-olds astraZeneca on the basis of all the international scientific evidence that has been gathered about the safety aspects of AstraZeneca's deployment. If I were to say, "Okay, Mr. Wilders, I understand; we think it's safe, it's safe, too, but because people would rather have had another vaccine, we're introducing some kind of option for the 60- to 64-year-olds," then I'm slowing down the vaccination operation. And I shouldn't, because that means that for the 60-plussers for whom this vaccine is safe and effective, you're taking out some of the vaccines, because those people want Pfizer. This means that I can no longer use this Pfizer for example the group of people with medical indications. In short, in its entirety this is a less effective commitment, a less efficient commitment. So I'm slowing down the vaccination campaign. I don't want to do that right now. If people have been offered their vaccine or if there is so much to come that the order of things is less, then there comes a time when we can come to a choice. Okay, people who didn't choose the offer they were given in the first place are now offered another vaccine of their choice, for example Pfizer. That's possible, but that's not the time. If I do it now, I'll slow down. If I do it later, it won't hurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u286	No one wants to slow it down, of course, but people aren't crazy either. I'm not gonna say it's unsafe, but people read the news. As small as the odds are, they can see that there have been 15 reports of thrombosis at Lareb, six people over 60 years of age, three people between 40 and 60, six between 20 and 40. They are mainly women: 12 women, three men. If you look at the total, of course, the odds are small. Someone who knows a lot about it told me that Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland no longer use AstraZeneca. I get it too, you know, you're saying that people are shivering about it, even if you say that everyone has looked at it and that it's safe. Other countries do not use it, perhaps for other reasons. As small as the odds are, thrombosis has occurred in women over 60 years of age. Then what's the alternative you have for those people? It is important that they are also vaccinated voluntarily. It's people who want to. We're not talking about people saying, "I don't want to be pricked." They're not refusers or anything, whatever you think. It's people who say, "I'd like to be pricked, but I don't trust it." If the minister says he can't do it now and he's slowing it down, can he give those people an indication of when he can? Is that a reasonable time? Do they have to wait four months or can they do it in a week? Can you give them something of a perspective and say, "Well, then I won't slow it down, but then I can?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u287	First of all, those numbers from Lareb. I would like to stress that Mr Wilders has also been able to see this, and I think he has always supported it, because we have acted very alertly on the basis of international signals. Always very conscious and thus we have prevented health damage and have kept faith in the vaccination programme: if the government offers a vaccine, it will do so on the basis of the latest state of science. Above 60 the choice is not difficult to make. The vaccine is safe and the incidence is very rare, but still very severe, if more than 60 is in fact not or hardly higher than the background prevalence. Under 60, that ratio is the other way around. You have just quoted from a report I believe that this is an international report in which it is indeed said that for young people, for example, between 20 and 30 or between 30 and 40, the risk of a very serious disease caused by corona is very low. The risk of this very rare, yet very serious side effect is about as high or sometimes even greater than the risk of death from corona. Then, of course, the choice is quite easy to make. Especially since we have alternative vaccines, we offer under 60 alternative vaccines. Above 60 this ratio is completely different and the balance sheet is totally positive. So, over 60 AstraZeneca. The second question is a very fair one. To date I have always said: we prick what the pot buys and when we are all done, we see how we proceed. I'm still saying that, but I'll add something. In the next few weeks we will see if we can shorten the interval between the first and second shot with AstraZeneca. As a result, I hope to be done with those 60-64-year-olds sooner. In addition, there is a number of expectations at your Chamber about what we could do with the deployment of AstraZeneca. The cabinet has those expectations, too. That is a choice for people who say: I will take that risk, because I want to be vaccinated earlier. That is its international commitment. Suriname, for example, has submitted a request for this. The moment you deal with the remaining AstraZeneca vaccine in that way, that could also be the moment when you say to the 60- to 64-year-olds who haven't been pricked, "Okay, now you can join the rest of the campaign." When that is the time, I cannot say now, because it has to do with the space I see within the package leaflet and the advice of the Health Council to further shorten the interval. I promise Mr Wilders that as soon as we know, as soon as we can mention that moment in time, I will report to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u288	But that's not in a few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u289	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u290	That's sooner in a few weeks than in a few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u291	The minute I let you know, it's in two weeks. The moment it will be depends entirely on the interval that I can organize, but certainly not for a few months, because then we will be finished anyway. The thing about the alternative bet. Then the trash vaccine. It was Mr Eerdmans who tabled a motion on this and Mrs Westerveld asked a question about it. Anyway, it's everyone's goal to get vaccines in the upper arms and not in trash cans. There is no doubt about this goal. It is also an extremely charming initiative, in which general practitioners say: can we please do the best we can to avoid having anything left at the end of the day? Well, it's not the only initiative either. Many general practitioners in regions, for example, make agreements among themselves on how to prevent vaccines being left at the end of the day. They often do that in a very practical way. General practitioners are very practical anyway. People organize that very, very practical. However, the content of the initiative can be changed. That is not annoying, but I think, first of all, that the assumption that there could be a lot left and could thus be reached with people through such an initiative is an assumption that we cannot do. 'Cause there's nothing left. There's not enough. On the contrary, we need to take care of AstraZeneca, so that we have done all 60- to 64-year-olds as quickly as possible. That's what doctors know, and that's why they're very economical. General practitioners, if they have enough vaccines, usually organise a shot day. At the end of such a needle day, there is almost nothing left, if you deal with it exactly always less than a vial. You've often poked a few people out of it. So you really only have a few vaccines left at the end of one of those shots. Then you see that general practitioners make agreements with each other. Then they aim to ensure that the last couple join a colleague's prick day the next day, to make sure that they have as little left as possible. Usually, general practitioners know a practical solution to this problem. The initiative suggests that there is a lot left, but that is not really the case. In addition, I think that the design of it is that you should color your practice blue on the site, after which a lot of people drive that way less happy. That sounds like a lot of trouble to me, including for general practitioners. I think there are more practical ways of dealing with that surplus than this one. I have, of course, read Mr Eerdmans' motion and perhaps I should take that up. What I do want to do is continue talking to the general practitioners. I shall therefore take this initiative into account. We talked about this initiative, too. We should continue to talk about how to organise this as practically as possible in a region. In my view, there are other possibilities. If I may read the motion in this way, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u292	That's the motion in part No. 1211.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u293	That is indeed the motion in part No. 1211. But I find it complicated to say that this initiative is now the most fantastic solution, because I do not think it is. The intention behind the initiative is an intention that we all feel, of course. No vaccines should be placed in the trash. They're supposed to be in the upper arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u294	I see Mr. Eerdmans nodding. Very nice. Then the motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u295	About that initiative. Of course, it's not a new subject. I believe that in my first Corona debate a month ago we also suggested that perhaps there should be national waiting lists. That's not what the minister was for at the time. Now there is this initiative. Of course, that has to do with the fact that, although there is not much left each time, there is always a dose left in different places. If that happens, it's a shame. I think we agree on that. I would ask the Minister to take a more positive view of this. It now also prevents general practitioners from taking part in this initiative or in other initiatives, because there is a great deal of uncertainty about what the Ministry wants and about the direction we need to take in order to prevent this type of vaccine from disappearing into the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u296	I don't think there's really much unclear about what we stand for. I think that is very clear, namely that the surplus should be as close to zero as possible at the end of the day, the pivot. And I'm gonna do it. The GGD succeeds and the general practitioners manage to get as close to zero as possible. Actually, my thesis is that after each day of injection per location, there can never be more than one vial. That's how the planning's gonna be. Never more than one vial and a number of vaccines have probably already been put out of that vial. You're probably not gonna open a vial before the very last one. Then it is better to tell that very last customer that he should go to the neighbor's tomorrow, because he is having a shot. Then you don't even have that spilling. I think that these kinds of initiatives are actually the very best. This way of working together is also seen very much between general practitioners in a region. That is not centrally organized, but they just arrange it themselves, because they are usually very practical people. At first we had made a list where the pivoting could go. That is, of course, just in the order of the people who are next. That's the very best. So that is also an element that is a bit different, that people could actually sign up in haphazard order. That's not the point, because you need to stay as close to your order as possible. At AstraZeneca also plays the whole discussion whether it is part of the directive or not. No, it's outside the directive. You can deviate from it on an individual basis, if you as a doctor know your patient well, but you shouldn't want to do that group-by-group. Well, that's one way of looking at it. In short, I do have a number of reasons why I am less enthusiastic about the content. I am only sorry to have to stress this, because I actually think that all the initiatives that help to prevent spilling are worth talking about anyway, to see how you can solve it as practically as possible in a region. That is why I will leave Mr Eerdman's motion for a resolution to the Chamber, but then I will carry it out in such a way that I will continue to talk to the general practitioners to see how this pivot can be kept as small as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u297	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u298	Mr Paternotte and a number of others asked how you could ensure that people who are low-lettered do not experience a threshold. A lot of action is being taken on this, including with Pharos, with Stichting Lezen en Writing and with experts who really specialize in reaching low-literate students. We have translated all the educational materials into all the languages of the rainbow. That's what we're doing a lot in. In addition, the GGDs are highly skilled in reaching organisations deep into the capillaries of the neighbourhoods to ensure that we reach additional people. The motion that is in part No. 1218 has been filed, with about half the room underneath it, if I count seats, I think it is more than half the room supporting that direction, namely making sure you do everything you can to reach all the target groups. Now we are in a phase that we want to prick as many people as possible at great speed. But we will come to the stage where we see that in a neighbourhood, or among certain target groups, the vaccination rate is much lower than average. In those groups, that coronavirus can continue to house. That is why we really need to do everything we can to reach everyone and make the threshold as low as possible. That's exactly what we're doing. So, with regard to the additional commitment to the low-literate, I would like very warmly to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u299	The motion in part No. 1218 gets judgment Chamber. That is Mrs Den Haan's motion. There is a question on the part of Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u300	It's beautiful in itself, but still. I believe that there are a lot of people involved and that there is a good deal of thought about it, but then one gets a letter like that. Then you're talking about five A4s and a very long questionnaire. I know myself from people I know, that not everyone gets happy about that. It says that they are invited, but there is also a call: you have to do this and you have to do it. If you go to the website for a vaccination appointment, where most people go, you will be redirected to coronatest.nl. A lot of people think: I don't need a test, I need a vaccination. Then you have to start looking again, while they come to the vaccination appointments when they scroll down. They're pretty good things, which I think: instead of five A4s, that could really be a lot simpler. That's what we want to make it for people. That threshold should be as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u301	Those five A4s aren't the most beautiful letter we've ever written. There are, sometimes legal, requirements about how we should inform people. With all kinds of references where they could find all possible side effects and so on. These are requirements that are simply imposed on that type of communication. In addition, from the Dutch Data Protection Authority there is a proper list of requirements on how people should be informed. In short, I think I would have liked to write a shorter and easier letter, but that we have also been kept to a number of things. Let us also mention that such a letter is not the only thing people get and the only thing people experience in communication when they are invited to vaccination. Steffie, with which we translate a lot of government communication for the low-literate, has, for example, created beautiful communication products. Once again, I believe that we have translated the information on corona vaccination into thirteen languages. The health services in the regions work as key people in neighbourhoods, to ensure that we get as close to society's capillaries as possible and really reach everyone. Every day new initiatives, sometimes very local, sometimes regional, sometimes national, come in to see how you could operate even more easily. In short, I want to radiate in your direction: everything, but really everything we could do, anything that could work, we do. As far as I am concerned, we have also been cordially invited to continue to come up with initiatives, and, in a manner of speaking, to come forward with motions to take new steps to further extend the scope. Because the lower the threshold, the better. We need to reach everyone. Then the G.D.D. Mrs Den Haan asks: the GGD is going to scale up, will it manage? The question to the GGD was: 1.5 million. The general practitioners no longer vaccinate the medically vulnerable and the flu group are only inviting them, but they no longer prick them themselves. We have asked the GGD: could you scale further to 2 million? In addition, we have asked hospitals in a number of regions to be for the benefit of and to help the health services. That's what's gonna happen. In addition, we have made an appointment with hospitals for peak deployment. So they can put up to 0.5 million vaccinations on top of that. There's a separate system for that. There are very precise agreements in the regions. I'm really confident the G.D.D.'s gonna pull that off. Has everyone been accepted for the situation that you might have to prick 2.5 million? Well, no. But is that what I'm worried about? Well, no. After all, the GGDs show that they can handle the scaling-up of vaccinations extremely well. Of course, it's the pre-security bet you want to be able to set up in case you accidentally get all the vaccines delivered badly planned in one week, so to speak. If you look now at how deliveries are going, including the sum of deliveries, then at the moment it is not going to exceed 2.5 million in any week. My point is therefore that the agreements we have made will be sufficient to have sufficient capacity, so that the puncture capacity will never be the delaying factor. We have said that deliveries should be the only delaying factor in vaccination. The deliveries must set the pace and nothing else. And we can do that with the agreements we made. By the way, we've got the DOD standing by. They have said this from the beginning: if necessary, we can help with staffing. That offer still stands. That's gonna work, too. Then there's the registration. Mrs Kuik is right: registration is not yet in order. I have to say that more precisely. The registration is done; each shot is neatly recorded. Only you want them in that central system, too, because it's a good way to steer the economy. And we're going to need that registration for the vaccination certificates as well. We have talked very intensively with the pricking parties recently about what can be done in this respect. A lot of actions have been set in motion. My assumption is that that system will fill up much faster in the coming time. Now it's not good enough, but it's being worked on very hard. A lot of people tell me that they do want to use that yellow book. The point is that this yellow book for corona vaccination has no status. It has no international status and also has no status in the Netherlands. Even later, it will not be possible to use it as a vaccination certificate. It's fine if GGD's say they fill out the booklet, but especially considering the demand to scale up to 2 million, I don't want to waste time at the locations filling out a booklet. What people can do themselves, of course, is simply insert the card they get into their yellow booklet. That's fine. What we need to work on is that the decentralised systems are linked to the central system. Technically, all that can be done, but the data just needs to be passed on. Then the central system is complete and then the vaccination certificate can be turned out very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u302	I'm almost embarrassed to be standing here talking about a yellow book. But first of all, it's true that it just works. The moment I want to enter Africa and have to prove that I've had a yellow fever vaccination, that's enough. Secondly, many people do not know that they should keep the vaccination card. And thirdly, my concern is with the situation where something is not going well. Then you must have gotten something of evidence, a stamp, or a sticky sticky sticky sticky on it. My call would mainly be: just do and-and-and-until you get the registration in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u303	Not for a number of reasons. It has no status, nor is it international. He doesn't have it. That's the point. It has no international status, and that's why it's no good. If people want to put that card in that book, they can. People just have to do it by themselves. The most important thing is to get the central registration in order. This can be done if the decentralised systems are sent to the central system. We are a long way from that, but a number of decentralised operators are not yet far enough away. We're working very hard on that. In the end, that will mean that everyone can just load their vaccination certificate into the app. It has to be digital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u304	Even GPs are e-mailing us. They say we've been vaccinated, but we're not in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u305	That's very special.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u306	Everything is special in life. There'll only be 10 or 100 people who don't have it. They're gonna want to go on a trip. They'll have no proof, because they didn't keep the vaccination card. Then we have a problem with each other, because this cabinet attaches very much to a vaccination certificate, later attached to a corona passport and attached to a test certificate. Then you need to get it in order. So it can't depend on coincidence. As long as the central system doesn't work 100%, or because it doesn't work well enough or because people don't want to be in the system, you have to have an alternative. That's just not 100% sound. So do not reject me now, but make sure that we just have an en-en-system, so also the yellow booklet and the vaccination card. I can see the Minister nodding. Then we're done arguing. I'm just telling you the experiences of people in practice. It would be nice if the cabinet would just listen to that and understand that the theory and what you want to be something other than the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u307	It doesn't change the situation. It is not, in fact, useful at international level. It doesn't do you any good internationally. You don't need a vaccination certificate as an alternative to access tests, because that's no good for your card. It's always good to keep that card, but people have to do it themselves. We can't do that for them. Filling in such a yellow booklet does not have a status, but costs extra work for the GGD, which I want to help and encourage in a very different way to make sure that they can put all those vaccinations later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u308	I don't dispute that. I'm just saying that not all registrations are working yet and not all people keep their cards. So soon we will be able to have a group of people who can no longer prove that they are registered as vaccinated. Then we have a problem. I call on the Cabinet to have a kind of en-en-en system, not because it gives guarantees, but as a kind of double check for how it works later. Can people still prove that they have been vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u309	I'm really afraid we're gonna disagree on that. It's extra work for the GGD and it's actually not helping. So I'm just not gonna do that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go see Mrs. Van der Plas. She asks whether a previous vaccination would be possible for border workers. I'm not going to do that, because of course we took the medical risk as a starting point in the order in which we vaccinate people. The people who are more vulnerable are more likely to be vaccinated. That is often age and sometimes in a number of other ways a medical vulnerability that is similar to the vulnerability you have at an age. For example, wage workers or cross-border workers cannot be given priority in the vaccination campaign. Where there is a cross-border test obligation, we do help employers and make agreements with, for example, Germany, which imposes this obligation. We also create test capacity in the Netherlands to help border workers. That is what we are doing to prevent them from being hunted for their own costs. That's how we help, but in the vaccination order, we can't change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u310	A question from Mrs van der Plas on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u311	I understood that FNV and VNO-NCW had also requested this. Has the Minister been in contact with this, including on this particular subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u312	That is not the case with this particular point. We have a lot of contact with the union, of course, but not with this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u313	But are these tests going to be free?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u314	Yes. My hope and expectation is that this type of measures in the border area will no longer be necessary if vaccination rates increase and the level of infection decreases. I'll be right back on that. I sincerely hope so. At the moment, however, things just aren't going well enough in the Netherlands. The level of contamination in Germany is much lower than that in the Netherlands. So yes, we are currently seen by other countries as a high-risk country. I understand that, too. So it's our first job to suckle that reduces it. Of course, the individual employee cannot do anything about it. So as long as there is a test obligation, we must help it by making that possibility easier. As far as quarantine obligations are concerned, we've made it easier for border workers. We now also add people with a short stay. So those are people who want to send a message across the border. In any case, this is also the subject of a relaxation of the quarantine obligation. If there is a test obligation, people to whom that applies will in principle have to comply, but we want very much to help border workers, both their employers and themselves, in order to prevent them from being hunted at a cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u315	Mrs. Van der Plas. Yeah? Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u316	Mrs Hermans asks whether consideration is being given to the future of the vaccination campaign. Yeah, I wrote a few things about that in last night's letter. I have just sent a supplementary letter on this subject, which deals with its budgetary implications. I think it's okay to say the following. We expect to go to some sort of annual vaccination programme, also next year. We want everyone vaccinated as soon as possible, with at the beginning of the summer at least for everyone who gets the first shot, and quite soon afterwards, of course, for everyone who gets the second shot. That's because we just have a lot of vaccines. Well, then we've vaccinated everyone, but then we've got a lot of vaccines left. We can also bet some of that for next year. In addition, the European Commission has concluded a first contract with one of its suppliers, Pfizer, before 2022 and 2023. That's all about very large numbers. As the Netherlands, we could get 17.5 million of Pfizer per year for 2022 and 2023. That's a lot. In addition, we probably have about 24 million vaccines left when the entire vaccination campaign is ready. We still have a right to that. A number of vaccines that are uncertain have not even been taken into account. In short, we have a lot of vaccines. We will donate a large part of that through COVAX anyway, but we will also prepare ourselves for an annual vaccination programme. It is our commitment to this in advance, because we do not know it yet, to assume that we will have to put two more shots in front of the whole population, so we will have to do a full vaccination. We assume that this will be from the age of 12 to make the calculation as large as possible; fully vaccinate from the age of 12, annually. We're gonna bet on that in the purchase we're doing right now. Besides, I want us not just to rely on one provider, on one vaccine developer. Mrs Kuik made a fair point about this. This concerns multiple vaccine developers and preferably multiple technologies, so really not just mRNA. Several technologies must therefore be part of the vaccination portfolio for the coming years. I think we will not know until the autumn whether we will actually need it. Then you can say much more about, for example, the extent to which the antibodies remain or decrease. Actually, we don't know until later. We're assuming we have to go to an annual program. But we do not know whether that will be for the whole population or for some of the population, and whether that is a booster or a full vaccination. Another requirement in the contracting of vaccine developers for the coming period is that they can adapt to the latest developments as regards mutations. That's actually similar to the flu vaccination. We also determine at some point which virus mutations should be part of the vaccine. So you also want to buy the product, the technique, in particular, but at a later stage you can determine which type of mutations that vaccine should protect against. In any case, you want to make sure that the vaccines are always adapted to the latest mutations. That's the stake in the buy-in. The European Commission does so on behalf of all 27 Member States. The first contract for this was concluded. But again, we already have a lot of vaccines. Because we've already contracted so many vaccine developers for quite a few vaccines in the last quarter of this year and the first quarter of next year, I'm not worried about 2022 anyway. This also applies to 2023. What choice? We'll see about that later. Perhaps it is good to say that the letter I have sent is, in fact, about the budget right of the Chamber. It is a confidential letter that I have added, because it also states the amount that we will have to pay. There's an opt-out for that, and if you don't want to pay for it, you have to let me know in time. That is why I have informed you confidentially. The supplementary budget, in which we are officially going to regulate this with the Chamber and in which the Chamber can actually enforce its budget rights, will come later. It will not be broken down by vaccine either, otherwise I will not be able to meet the contractual conditions. You see exactly the cost per vaccine and you can't. The PvdA asks whether the EU is going to deal with products other than Pfizer. The answer to that question is yes. Then there are our international obligations. I very much agree with everyone who says that we have a very important international obligation. If you look at the vaccination rate in the Netherlands and at all in Europe, the UK, Israel and the United States and then at the rest of the world, you can only say: what a blessing that you were born in this part of the world and that you are allowed to live in such a rich country. This is not a merit of our own and therefore we have a huge responsibility towards the rest of the world to ensure that vaccines are supplied to the rest of the world as soon as possible. If you don't do it out of solidarity, then you have to do it out of self-interest, but I think it is also primarily about solidarity. We won't be safe with each other until everyone's safe and that means we have to do everything that helps. And many of the speakers have also determined their commitment to this. This often involves, also internationally, the release of patents and patent law. The new position of the United States is new. It has, of course, been discussed more often, for example in the WTO context. I believe that Mr Paternotte really had a point when he said that, in the light of recent months, he cannot quite place people now calling on the US as the forerunner of international solidarity. Indeed, no raw material from American soil has gone to the rest of the world. But it is of course good that America is now also jointly responsible for providing the rest of the world with vaccines. Whether this is going to be the cure, I do not know, but I do think that we should give every means a chance to actually be discussed. We cannot do this without making the point that the Netherlands and the European Union have already made on a number of occasions. That remark raises the question as to whether this is currently the obstacle. You have to be honest about that, and I think the answer to that question is no. The second is this. If you suspended the patents now, does that mean that all that confidential knowledge will be shared immediately? No, because it's just about the patents. Is it now the case that there are all kinds of vaccine factories waiting in deep dark Africa that are just waiting for the patent to turn? No, I wish! That's not the case. All vaccine producers, who can produce, are really involved, because all vaccine suppliers, of course, want to deliver faster and more to all those countries that are waiting. There's a boundless market, you might say, and all those suppliers want to deliver as soon as possible. They have contracted as many producers as possible. In short, I do wonder if this is the method to speed up, but that is without prejudice to the need to examine it. That was also the reaction of Mr Kaag. She said: we welcome the new understanding of the United States. By this she also meant: it is very good that the government there too, because there is a lot of private initiative that sees that it has a responsibility for the rest of the world. This also means that we will indeed start that discussion at the WTO level and that we will also start that discussion at the EU level. I understand that the United States wants to make a proposal to this effect. That's what we're waiting for, and we welcome it. So I have to be honest with you, and I am sticking to this type of discussion, and I am therefore saying that I do not know if this is going to be Columbus' egg. I wonder very much. I also think that there could be disadvantages in the longer term, for example for the willingness to invest in new technologies. You have to be honest about that, too, but we simply cannot afford to put aside any idea at once in this crisis. That's how I see your enthusiasm. But it does mean that I will have to respond to the motions in a more involuntary manner than I would really like. Because they just write for "suspension of patents" or "suspension of patents." Well, that may be the outcome of a discussion, but that is not the focus of the discussion so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u317	What motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u318	I'm gonna go get 'em. There's some of them. A pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u319	I'd love to. Maybe it's good to give the appreciation of those motions first. Then Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u320	That's good. I'll get them. I think I've seen them in three versions. It was a motion from Mr Paternotte... My excellent administration is holding for now... Yes. It's about the motion in part No. 1184 by Mr Paternotte. I very much agree with the first operative part: putting pressure on all countries to resolve all export bans. I very much agree with that, because it will never work with nationalism; you really must want to organise this as internationally as possible. So we have to get rid of export bans anyway. "Asks the government to speak out for the release of patents": I think that is too early. That may be the outcome of a discussion if there is a very good proposal, but that is not our commitment at the moment. The willingness to talk about it is what the cabinet said. So if the motion remains with this wording, and I couldn't explain it to her roomically, I have to advise against this motion. Then I have the motion in part no. 1194 by Mr Kwint. It also calls for the suspension of property rights. Once again, that may be the outcome, but that is not the commitment for the moment, because we think that there are a number of comments that are really worth discussing. Then we have the motion in part no. 1199 van Westerveld, Chicken and Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u321	But you also mentioned the motion in part No. 1194.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u322	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u323	It's being dissuaded. And the motion in part No. 1184 is also not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u324	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u325	And the motion in part No. 1199.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u326	Actually, all for the same reason,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u327	The motion in part No. 1199 is also not recommended. Clear. There is a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u328	I cannot, of course, speak for the other proposers, but I suspect they will share some of my surprise. The Minister starts with a run-up to the importance of the subject and underlines that he can go along with a whole section. Eventually, he's gonna say, "But we're gonna have a conversation first." No one, no motion that has been tabled, says: do not discuss this. But a conversation you enter into with a certain approach. As far as we are concerned, this approach must indeed be: support the proposal of, from my mind, India and another country, which is part of the World Trade Organisation; we have an interest in getting the vaccine more publicly available, and we believe that the temporary suspension of intellectual property rights can be an important step in this. In my view, that is what my motion calls for: the proposal to do so publicly and to obtain more support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u329	You're asking me to be excited about a cure. But my enthusiasm is at the goal you support, namely to ensure that we, the rich Western world, take co-responsibility and feel a great responsibility to ensure that the whole world is vaccinated as quickly as possible. The question is what means will bring that goal closer as soon as possible. There is no limit, I say in the direction of Mr Kwint, on the financial part. You agree with these budgets, so you know how much we have released for vaccines. You are also aware of the numbers of vaccines that we can claim under contract. Those are astronomical numbers, a lot more than we have Dutch upper arms at all. In short, we have a lot of vaccines. We can redistribute those vaccines through COVAX. We are committed to international cooperation on vaccinations. We are committed to international cooperation at CEPI on everything that has to do with research into medication and vaccination. There's the patent pool, there's C-TAP. The Netherlands is at least part of all international initiatives and often also a pioneer. So we want to do anything that helps. The point is, would this help? You must really want to have that conversation first. And you actually want us to start that conversation with all the conclusion: yes, it's a good idea. Then I think that you do not leave enough room for the outcome of the conversation that it may not be the very best idea at all, because it does not help and because there are a number of disadvantages, for example a reduced willingness of investors to innovate in pharmacy. If you know that might be a possible consequence... Patents, patents, working with patents: this has an innovation-enhancing effect. Otherwise we shouldn't do it at all, but we do; we do it for a reason. If it could be counterproductive when it is not the solution to the problem at the moment, then I think you should be able to say openly that the outcome of that discussion might well be that we are not going to do so. That does not quite relate to the operative part of your motion, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u330	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister to respond a little bit less. I think we can have a very general discussion here on medicines, international...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u331	I think we should do that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u332	Maybe we should do that at some point, because I see that a few questions come back every time. Mr Kwint, then Mrs Van Esch and then Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u333	We understand that this is not some kind of miracle cure that will get us out of the pandemic within a week. But according to the SP, there are two things we do achieve. First of all, you also do something about the possibility of developing alternatives, which ultimately means that you also pay a lower price for the vaccines yourself. The profit margins have been pretty good this year. There have been worse years to be a shareholder of a pharmaceutical company, rarely very bad years. The other thing is that this is indeed related to knowledge exchange and to production capacity........................................................................................................................................................... This could make an incredible contribution to that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u334	How? We already have a contract with Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Janssen. With all these companies, we have a contract, so I don't see how we can do it better, cheaper or whatever. The essence of the question here is: how do we scale up production further? We have taken many initiatives, in the Netherlands with our own task force led by Hans Schikan, our own special envoy. By the way, all countries have a similar initiative. In Europe, for example, HERA is running. In addition, there are numerous cooperation arrangements between pharmaceuticals to further increase production facilities. In the Netherlands, we try to make the match between developers and production facilities that could easily be adapted to the needs of a new developer. So, yes, we have to put a lot of effort into scaling up production, but none of that has anything to do with patents. The idea is: if we just drive those patents on the verge, then suddenly all kinds of factories are gonna come out of the ground. It just isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u335	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Esch, then to Mrs Gündoğan and then to Mrs Westerveld. I understand that there will be a general consultation on medicines before the summer. Perhaps it is a good thing to make real use of that AO as well, otherwise it will be a very broad debate. I would like to give you the opportunity to make one interruption on this subject, and I would ask the Minister to give us a shorter response. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u336	It's about exactly those factories that would still have to be built. That is not the case in India. India simply states: "We have the opportunity. The production capacity is there. We just need freedom and those patents." I think it is true that it could not work immediately in African countries. But in India, they say, "We are in an acute emergency here. We have the production capacity. We can also help neighbouring countries with this. Exactly that exemption is built in to deal with acute emergencies." If India makes that request and states "we can arrange that production ourselves," if India is asking acutely now, then we can't wait to see if we might have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u337	I can't place that. That is why I believe that this requires further analysis. India has the largest vaccine producer in the world, the Serum Institute. They do have a lot of production facilities, but they also have a very good vaccine, namely a vaccine with an identical composition as AstraZeneca. If they have that production facility, I wouldn't know why they can't just put gas on the shelf. I don't know what a patent could do to help. That is why it is good to continue this analysis. That is why the cabinet also says: we are open to that conversation and we are very curious about what the United States is coming up with. If one says 'we're going to make a constructive proposal on how to deal with the temporary suspension of patents and how that might help', that's fine. Only I think we should keep an eye on the ball, and that is scaling up the production facility. Anything that helps with that, we have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u338	"Everything that helps." Bangladesh claims to be able to produce 800 million more vaccines this year. They just have those factories standing there. Last Sunday, Amrish Baidjoe was at Buitenhof. It indicated that many countries are able to produce generic vaccines. Many of the arguments you cite from the Big Pharma have, of course, been seen in recent years. For example, I'm calling Leadiant, which makes a medicine 500 times more expensive, Novartis, which makes a chemo 6 times more expensive, and Lupin, which makes a medicine 100 times more expensive. The whole myth that the pharmaceutical invests so much in innovation is not true. Just see how they make more profit in the S&P 500 than other major multinationals. It is time to break their power in this pandemic, so that it can be vaccinated globally. That's the goal of the ball: to vaccinate globally. Not looking at the ball of the Big Pharma myth, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u339	That's very sloganical this way. A few things. The eye on the ball is indeed global vaccination, as soon as possible. For this, the production facility needs to be further raised. There's a lot of production going on. It is very special that we stand where we stand, that so much has been produced in such a short time. Those vaccine developers did. All on your own and all on your own investment? Well, no. We ourselves, for example as the European Union, have made advanced purchase agreements to participate in the pre-investments needed to scale up the production facility. Normally you buy a vaccine off the shelf and at the moment we have of course invested in scaling up production capacity. The United States may have done more than the European Union. The UK too has done so. That's how we managed to scale up that production facility so far. Is there anything uncomfortable in the way the pharmaceutical is structured, including in terms of funding? Absolutely. Very large profits are made, often over the back of patients, insurers or countries that actually have no choice but to buy a particular vaccine. In short, there is no normal balance in supply and demand. It's a product that's made there, that you need incredibly and you can't live without. In short, there are great difficulties in the way we have structured pharmacy. In your first-term contribution, I also heard that the pharmacy often uses fundamental research, for example, that we have publicly funded, but in the end the revenu really private countries. Is that fair? No, that's not entirely fair. Can you do better? Yeah, that's gotta be better. But about that... oh, look, colleague Van Ark ran away. I really think you should have the general discussion with Mr Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u340	Yeah, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u341	But I would like to stress that we have no choice in the middle of this pandemic. We need those vaccines, all of us. And yes, it makes money. It is not my biggest problem right now that money is being made. Because if you look at how much money it costs us to spend a week longer in lockdown, a week longer to pay for all the support packages: it costs us 700, 800 million a week right now. So the business case is never negative. We are indeed prepared to pay a lot of money. At the moment, the profit margin of pharmacy is not my biggest problem. My biggest problem right now is global vaccination. Getting us to scale up production facilities is our biggest problem right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u342	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Gündoğan and then Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u343	I think we agree on that point. Let me be clear about that. First things first. That profit margins and the structure of the Big Pharma is for a later order. Hopefully we're going to wash that piggy in this Chamber and internationally, hopefully. But we really need to look more broadly and dare to look at those American studies that say that Canada, Bangladesh and South Korea can now really contribute to the scaling up of that production. So we really need to take that to heart. We must also support this at European level so that we are stronger at the WTO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u344	Absolutely. I very much agree with that. I also hope that the American proposal will contribute to this. I also hope that the European Union will take this as an effort. Where production facility is or can be prepared with a small adjustment or rapid adjustment: always do. Anything that helps: do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u345	I do not quite follow this argument. Because, to put it very sharply, 0.3% of the available vaccines go to developing countries. The vaccination rate is 25 times lower. That is not just a very big problem in those countries. That is also a problem for all of us, because there can be different mutations that can also come to the Netherlands. So there are several reasons for doing something about that. The minister says we're on it, we're gonna investigate it even further, we're gonna have a conversation. But this idea of temporarily suspending those patents is already a year old. Nothing's been done for a year. This applies not only to the Netherlands, but this Minister has a very strong negotiating position at European level in order to impose much stricter requirements on those pharmaceuticals. My question is why the Minister does not say to us here: I am going to work at EU level; they cannot put the EU out of play and they cannot go around us, so we are going to deal with these big pharmaceutical companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u346	I do not think that we should be under any illusion at the moment about the negotiating position of individual governments towards pharmaceuticals. I don't believe that. Vaccine developers can deliver to the whole world, to anyone. Everyone wants to be in line at the front. If you have all kinds of views from your moral high horse about how vaccine developers should do their job, I think you're just gonna be a little further in the back of the line. In short, I do not think our negotiating position is brilliant. But that is without prejudice to the fact that we simply have a responsibility with each other, as joint governments. The Netherlands wants to take the lead. The Netherlands must be at the forefront of this. That's the moral obligation we have. This also applies to vaccine developers. We have always addressed the vaccine developers, including in our European negotiations, to their moral responsibility. For example, we have agreed that without having to ask the vaccine developer himself, we may redistribute vaccines that we have left over. We will continue to use this instrument in the commitment to next year's contracts, because that makes it possible for us, for example, to contribute to COVAX. COVAX is the distribution system to poorer countries from the UN. We want to contribute to this to our heart's content. We ordered 84.5 million vaccines for our first vaccination campaign. Of course there are far too many, but we did not know what would and would not succeed, and who would come sooner and later. We've bet on all possible winning horses. We've contracted them all. If we get them all, if it's all delivered, we won't be needing them anymore pretty soon. In the summer we are already at the end of our own vaccination campaign. That means we have a lot of vaccines to give away, and we are going to. That's a quick way to help poor countries. Helping to raise the production facility internationally is a quick way. The international contribution to research is also a quick way to help, even though it may be slower. We'll do anything, anything, anything that helps. Imagine that the United States would say: we really have a very brilliant proposal with only benefits and no disadvantages, and that does indeed help to speed up production. Then that's why we're here. My point with regard to the motions is that the outcome of the debate is dictated and we are not yet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u347	That's what you said. Perhaps I should ask the Minister... I thought Mr Rutte's approach was useful, to see if a number of questions could be answered by means of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u348	Of course, he's been doing it for a couple of years. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u349	It's 11.30 p.m. I'd like to ask you to go through it a little faster. You're very complete. That's to be appreciated...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u350	I hear a "but" coming, Mr. Chairman. Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u351	It's nice if we can get a little bit more to the core, based on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u352	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u353	Mrs. Westerveld. Again, there will be a general consultation on medicines for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u354	Yes, but this is the debate on corona. Of course, we are talking very specifically about the COOVID-19 patents. I hear from the Minister a very comprehensive explanation. Only, I still can't follow his point of non-binding. Two weeks ago, we were here, too. Then I had a discussion with him and we also talked about C-TAP. We know that no pharmaceutical has yet shared knowledge of this. I guess that non-committality doesn't work. Nor do I have the illusion that the Netherlands alone has a very strong negotiating position. That is why we say: agree to this and use our position in the European Union. I understand that a deal has just been made with Pfizer for 1.8 billion vaccines and that Pfizer made 3.5 billion dollars in profits in the first quarter. So we don't have to feel sorry for them. But as a Europe, you have a very strong negotiating position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u355	And your question is? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u356	My question is this: we are also asking in this motion why we do not use this negotiating position in Europe to impose tough demands on this type of large pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u357	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u358	Because the Netherlands may put you aside, but Europe may not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u359	There's all kinds of uncomfortable in the pharmaceutical financing structure. I just said something about that. But that's not the first game we have to play. The fact that companies make profits is fine, because otherwise companies will not exist very soon. So companies have to make a profit. They can invest in innovation again, and that helps. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are all kinds of uncomfortable issues in this financing structure. What we need to do now is scale up production to provide as many countries as possible with vaccines. That's the game we have to play. We agree on that goal. The question is: what means is helping to get that goal closer? We have always taken the view that the suspension of patents and patents is not the fastest way to success at the moment. But at the same time, if the United States makes a proposal for this because it thinks it can help, and India says it wants to talk about it in the WTO, it doesn't say in advance that we don't want it. So we are going to talk about it, but I do not rule out that we should go on a different route to the same goal. So I don't want to commit to the outcome of that conversation in advance either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u360	Thank you. No more interruptions. We're really going to the other motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u361	Then, very quickly, of course, Giro555. That's a beauty of an action. Apart from all the other things that we support and pay for, of course, we also support this Giro555 action, but that is really the private collection of money. What we are doing is investing through CEPI, Gavi and COVAX and all other international initiatives that we are right to make a lot of money into. Then Suriname. I think we're going to have a lot of vaccines left, and I can see that we're going to distribute them through COVAX. So we will be happy to contribute to COVAX and we will also call on our fellow Member States in the European Union to do so. But I do think there are a number of countries we have a special relationship with. Suriname is certainly one of these countries. I would therefore like to take a very kind look at the request made by Suriname. I also think it is right that they bang on our door, and I think we should open up and start talking about where we could help. It just depends on what I just mentioned, namely the interval between the first and second shots. I cannot quite see when we can clear which parts of the vaccines, but I would very much like to help and I think that we have a great responsibility towards Suriname.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u362	This was a question from Mr Kuzu earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u363	Excuse me, that's true, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u364	I would appreciate it if the Minister could forward the progress to the Chamber in another progress letter, or in a letter afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u365	Yeah, sure, absolutely. I'd love to say so. I addressed Mr Paternotte, but it was certainly also Mr Kuzu who made a firm plea for this. Then, Mr President, the questions about the epidemiological picture, but actually also about the open plan and beyond, so the longer term. Mr Rutte has just discussed the second step and I would like to focus on the longer term. But we start at Queen's Day, because there was another question about the epidemiological image: what about Amsterdam? At the moment, we know the following. From the GGD in Amsterdam we understand that sixteen large clusters have been found, with at least 69 infections, which are very likely to have occurred during Queen's Day. It was just about how exciting we find step 2. Of course we're excited. But even more exciting than the step we are taking in the measures is how we are going to stick to those measures. Because if we relax, so take a step in the relaxation, then it obviously works in psychology so that people think: oh, apparently something can happen again! Then one feels a little more bolder in dealing with the rules, and that is exactly not the intention. We are taking these steps very carefully and our behaviour must therefore also be very careful in the coming period. We do not yet have an exact picture of the epidemiological consequences, but because of these large clusters it is, of course, likely that the rate of infection in the case of Amsterdam, but perhaps also in a number of large cities elsewhere, is simply falling more slowly. And if the rate of infection decreases more slowly, it is likely that the number of hospitalisations resulting from it will also decrease more slowly than in the rest of the Netherlands. And that's just not necessary. It's not necessary at all. If we hold back a little bit, we can all just contribute to the fact that in the summer we can really do a lot again and are welcome again everywhere when we go on vacation. That is why we ask people once in a while to keep up with these rules. Then the contamination via aerosols. Mr Wilders and Mr Kuzu spoke about this. I would like to emphasise that it is not the case that this has never been recognised or so. The RIVM has in part always recognised the aerosol distribution and is simply part of the professional guidelines. I believe that this is something I have often said in the various debates, and I think that we should not politicise the state of science. We should simply allow scientists to do their work among themselves and draw conclusions on that basis. They are also long drawn by the international scientific community and therefore also by the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u366	There is a question from Mrs Hermans about King's Day, I think. Yeah, I felt good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u367	Yeah, sure. What the Minister is sketching is an analysis I share. When you're soothing, you do it to give a little space. At the same time, however, we must stick to all these basic measures. It is precisely for this reason that we are concerned that in Amsterdam and possibly in other major cities you will see infection sites. My question was not so much about the analysis, about what it means for complying with the measures. I wonder what we know about the infection sites. Where did they come from? In what age group? If we know more about this, I think that can also help us in the future, for example, for days when there may be good weather or days when there are celebrations or holidays, although there may be a little less in the coming period than in the previous period. I'm looking for what we're learning from it so we don't run into it as much as possible throughout the open plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u368	What we know and have learned is that, if we take a step towards relaxation, even though we still do so as carefully as people read and hear it as: ha, there can be anything again! That makes us say very precisely all the time: boys, we are taking very carefully steps and you must do so, because in this way we keep the rate of infection as low as possible with each other. At least we know that. That is a lesson that we have drawn, even in a number of other settings, for example, around the summer of last year. What we know here is that it's probably related to King's Day. You can understand that. There was hosted in a square, while at that time there were 180,000 infectiouss. More than one in 100 people was contagious. We also know that a large proportion of people do not stay at home for complaints. Some people don't even feel complaints. That makes hosting in a square not without risk. In fact, that's very risky. That's why we don't usually do that, and that's why we shouldn't do that on King's Day. What do you learn from that? Behave yourself, even on King's Day! Fortunately, it will be a while before the next opportunity arises. However, in all these types of events, we must continue to remind people of the maintenance and instruction of the basic measures. I think that's the lesson we need to learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u369	I agree. It may also be that you need to communicate much more focusedly to certain groups. That's what I'm talking about, and that's why I'm asking if we know what age group these people are in. Do we know which groups and what backgrounds these people have? Are they students, old people or young people? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u370	I'm not familiar with that. Of course, we know that the group of 18 to 24-year-olds has the highest level of contagion. If you saw the footage of the hoss on that square, you'd see a single 18- to 24-year-old standing in between. So you can honestly assume that that group was quite represented. But let's not do the cluster analysis of the GGD Amsterdam here. I think they should. We cannot yet see to what extent this has led to additional hospitalisations. However, it is one of the reasons why we have said that this break button next Monday is not an unnecessary luxury. It's still falling nicely now, but in the end our behavior really determines how fast it's going to go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u371	Agreed. I couldn't agree more. But my point is this. If we continue to say that in general, but that has no effect on certain groups, then that also requires something from us, from all of us in the arrangement of communication to reach those groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u372	I get it. Let me make a deal with you this way. Of course, we're gonna do the analysis right. In any case, the GGD Amsterdam is going to do that analysis well. So we will ask the RIVM and perhaps also the behavior unit of the RIVM what to learn from it for the communication of the coming time. Because the combination of relaxation and still keeping to the basic measures will only become more difficult in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u373	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister to make the motions now and to take any questions that may arise immediately. It would be nice if that could be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u374	In the motion in part No. 1200 asks Van Haga to investigate whether there is a relationship between anxiety and stress on the one hand and immunity on the other. I'm deceiving that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u375	The motion in part No. 1,200 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u376	Mr Eerdmans advocated a local approach with a reference to Mayor Depla. Of course we've had that. Only at a low level of contamination this is the issue, but certainly not now. It only leads to more ambiguity and more questions to please communicate more clearly. We don't have very good experiences with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u377	Is that the motion in part No. 1212?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u378	It was actually just a question from Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u379	A question about outdoor sports. It's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u380	He's with...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u381	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u382	Of course, we'll pass on your suggestion. Then Mr Stoffer of the SGP, who asks for more room for visitors at weddings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u383	There is some confusion with Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u384	It wasn't about the motion in part No. 1212, but which motion was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u385	It's not a motion, it's a question. I didn't realize that until later. I'm sorry for the confusion. The motion in part No. 1212 will soon be commented on by the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u386	It was a question. Every now and then a question is asked in the debate. Mr Stoffer of the SGP asked when more room would be given for visitors to weddings. We're now giving a room of max. 30 and we do so on purpose, because it is one of the few situations in which we make it possible to get together in groups at all. Then it's always called the relationship with funerals. Then why are 100 people allowed to go there? Well, a wedding is a little better planned than a funeral. From the weddings to the hugs. Usually the order is the other way around, but we can do it now. When can we hug again, Mr Paternotte asked while he looked at Mr Wilders. I liked that. This is, of course, about letting go of that 1.5 meter. There are a number of health care institutions where this can actually be done again. If both partners have been vaccinated, if the care workers and the clients have been vaccinated, then that can happen again and then it happens. Step by step one offers more space there. That's one. Two. In the open plan that we discussed last week, there are a number of times when we are going to make more things possible with access tests. There is a similar possibility for vaccinees to those tested. Everything you will see on the open plan in the access tests in step 4 and step 5, you can think all the time: but for vaccinees who can show that they have been vaccinated, the same space and possibilities apply. Then there is a third point, namely the question we will ask the Health Council and the OMT about what is again possible for people who have been vaccinated in their own domain. We will have to add this to the open plan and the government will decide on this at the beginning of June on the basis of an opinion from both the Health Council and the OMT. In addition, for the time being, we would like to keep the rules in public space equal for everyone. Otherwise, it's out of control and it's undermining everything. If we can stop doing that, I cannot say now, because that depends on how long we will have to handle the 1.5 meters. On the motion in part No. 1186, in which the government is invited, together with the RIVM and in accordance with CDC and ECDC, to draw up the opinions for vaccinees, I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u387	The motion in part No. 1186, the hug motion, gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u388	Yeah, the hug move. Then we'll go to the Bikker test. You asked why the present extension decision did not indicate why the Bikker test should be extended for each component. I couldn't do that, as I explained the other day. Your request and my commitment to you and the extension request have crossed paths. On the next renewal request, I would like to do this. That'll be in about three months. Then the motion to part No. 1208, which asks if I want to do so on a monthly basis. That doesn't appeal to me, because that's a lot of writing. Probably the copy-paste of the same texts. I would like to give a motivation for each extension request. I would, however, like to assure you that we will at least do it once for the current legal provisions. So we can orient ourselves on that next extension. Then we can hold a policy debate on what part of that Twm is important in its provisions to continue and whatever part you might be able to say goodbye to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u389	Is that motion in part No. 1207 or in part No. 1208?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u390	No, that was the motion in part No. 1208. I'd advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u391	So the motion in part No. 1208 betrays you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u392	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment. I've just missed out on whether it's coming or not before the extension starts. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u393	In any case, I would like to do what you ask for, namely, for each section why we still need it. That's on the next extension. Before the summer, I would like to have a debate with you on how we look at the need for these provisions in the longer term. I refer that to the question that you raised in the motion for a resolution. 1207. How do we even look at the longer term and its legal form? I want to reconcile that with each other. I think we're gonna have to have that conversation around the summer about how we look at the longer term. We are now in the phase of getting that epidemic phase under control. Everyone needs to be vaccinated as soon as possible. That's what we're in right now. But of course we're going to a new phase, an endemic phase. This brings with it many questions, about the vaccination programme, about the measures still needed, about the legal toolbox that goes with it. We will have to answer those questions in conjunction, somewhere around the summer. I would like to say that, even before the next extension, I would like to check those legal provisions from the Twm in order to determine what we should continue with for a longer period of time. I would like to do that in conjunction with a look at the Corona approach for the longer term at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u394	You also mentioned the motion in part No. 1207. What appreciation does it get?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u395	He then gets judgment Chamber, that is the motion Bikker/Kikker in part No. 1207.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u396	I'm glad I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u397	That's how we progress in the lineup. I want the motion in part no. Hold 1208.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u398	At the request of Mrs Bikker, I propose her motion (25295, No. 1208). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u399	Thank you, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u400	The Labour Party asked for an in-depth evaluation to be carried out by the summer and tabled a motion on this, that is the motion in part No. 1196. Mrs Kuiken referred to the WTO's guidance. I'm asking Mrs. Kuik if she'd like to make that motion. Around the summer I want to look at how the follow-up to our approach should take place, given the fact that we are moving towards an endemic situation of corona, we need to focus on the vaccination programme and we need to focus on the legal design of our approach. In addition, of course, you have to evaluate. You need to do the evaluation on how it goes. It will not be a full evaluation, because it will be done by the OVV. Of course, you should also look back and be in conversation with many parties. I do not know enough about the provisions of this WTO directive to say that it is practical to use them. I ask Mrs Kuik if she wishes to hold the motion. And can I describe to you in the next progress letter how we are going to make the long-term plan, when we are going to make it and how we could then use this method of evaluation? I can't judge it so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u401	I'll take a look at Mrs. Chicken if she's willing to make the motion in part no. 1196 and she nods that she is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u402	I appreciate that. Especially the way, with whom and at what time. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u403	At Mrs Kuik's request, I propose her motion (25295, No. 1196). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u404	Thank you. Then we're gonna do some more questions about testing. Mrs Westerveld points out that young people can spend a lot of money on commercial testing if they want to travel. We have talked about this a number of times, at all, about the costs of testing and to what extent it is justified to apply the principle of profit. The vaccine is not offered for any reason. We do so as soon as possible and we hope to have vaccinated as many people as possible as soon as possible. A large proportion of people will be vaccinated before the summer, before they go on summer holidays. Not everyone, but they can't. Then you can't travel with that. If that Digital Green Certificate is actually going to become a travel pass, you can also get it via a negative test certificate. I don't think we should necessarily offer that either. That's part of the cost you can make when you go on vacation. It goes for everyone that you have to make a holiday budget and this could be part of it. So I do not think that we should then have these costs on the taxpayer's account. Mr Van Haga asks if I have seen that different sectors would not want to participate in the access tests. Yeah, I saw that, and that's fine. No one has to feel obligated. No entrepreneur, no institution should feel obliged to participate in access tests. But let us not say for that reason that the other should not either. I think that's a little crazy. On the contrary, let us give the opportunity to those institutions that want to make access tests possible sooner or more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u405	There is another question about the previous point. That was a question from Mrs Westerveld, but there is also a question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u406	Mrs Westerveld mentioned young people. Let me try something else: the cornerstone of society. The family wants to go on holiday to France and Italy. Two more kids, $600 for those PCR tests and on the way back again. That can be a reason for many people to say: that holiday is not in this year. Now we have an excess capacity test at the GGD of 100,000 a week, if I'm correct. I understand that if the capacity this summer isn't enough to offer people a free test, you shouldn't. But would the Minister perhaps be prepared to look in June to see if there is so much overcapacity in the summer that we could allow everyone to get that PCR test there once this summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u407	What I do want to do is to set out the pros and cons of that. But I don't think we're going to have to use the GD capacity for that. I think we need the GGD capacity in a different way. I don't think I should ask that question to the G.D.D. It's not a public health question either. That's why you don't ask the GGD for access tests. This is a form of access testing anyway. I think it makes sense to ask people to bear the cost of their holidays themselves. €600 is of course an astronomical amount. You don't just put that on the table. That's a big bite from the holiday budget, so to speak. But €600 is also a very astronomical amount. Why would these amounts be so high for a commercial test, knowing that there are so many providers that could help in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u408	But you're willing to put the pros and cons together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u409	Yeah, the pros and cons. So that's not... I'm gonna find out if I'm gonna do it. I will set out the pros and cons of that. Then the SP and the PvdA refer to a statement from last night. I'm glad they're asking that question. I have seen that it has gone wrong in a number of places and I would very much like to explain what I meant by it. That is the statement that we see culture as a non-essential activity. I have just said: that is not a good understanding. How do we get that understanding? It comes from an opinion of the Health Council, in which the Health Council has advised on where you could and could not work with access tests. In any case, not in the essential sectors. You could work in the non-essential sectors with access tests. No one likes to be called nonessential. So I have just said: it is not pleasant to be called that. I understand that very well. I would like to emphasise that we are doing access tests to give culture makers more audience for their beautiful work, to give theatres the opportunity to get their exploitation done, to enjoy everything that makes life so beautiful again. We are doing it for, among other things, the people in the cultural sector, for entrepreneurs who can do more earlier. It is not a restriction on opportunities or freedoms, but rather the regaining of freedoms. That's what the whole access test is about. I would like to emphasise this, especially in the direction of the people in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u410	There is another question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u411	You said that you had received those signals, but that could not be a reason not to. The point is that cafes, restaurants, cinemas and museums do not make sense at all, because it is useless and costly and does not lead to profitable business operations. The signal is that they don't want that whole test society you want to implement at all. You can put it together nicely, but it does not lead to profitable business operations. It's nice that you've received the signals and that you're saying you're going to continue, but there's no point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u412	If you only read the letters you receive confirming your own position and not the letters you receive asking you to do so because it helps you to be able to do things sooner, you will indeed come to this conclusion. I'm sorry to see it that way. You often say that the cabinet wants to implement the test society, but I have said a hundred thousand times that the cabinet does not want that at all. What we want to do is to enjoy those things that make life so beautiful and that we have been missing for far too long, namely beautiful artistic and cultural expressions that you could enjoy with more people. Why would you want to deny that to others? You don't have to be a part of it! You don't have to. But why would you want to deny it to others? Why wouldn't we want to make it possible for people to go to a festival again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u413	Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u414	The moment you don't participate, you don't get that extension. And if you do, you'll get that extension. That's what you're saying. But the people and companies in question... maybe we should stop by together sometime, because I know enough entrepreneurs who really think it's total bullshit and say that there is no viable business operation possible. If you're not in, you're not gonna get that extension. We're not gonna agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u415	I don't think we're gonna agree either, which is a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u416	It is very sad that something unbelievable is being rigged, which has enormous costs, but which the business community says it does not want. You say you get letters from people who do. I'll leave it at that. I didn't get a single letter from an entrepreneur who wants this. I'm an entrepreneur myself. I can pass it on. It's the biggest piece of shit possible. Go ahead, we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u417	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u418	I did not intend to repeat the whole test debate. We took about 14 hours last week. However, it was not just that remark about whether or not essential, which shot a lot of people in the cultural sector in the wrong throat. It is also the remark that you might want to spend a day without art and culture. That might be true for visiting an art or culture institution. It is of course about that such a remark for a group of people who have been at home for almost a year and a half can make nothing and wait for a way to get back to work to make beautiful things and show us beautiful things again, gives us a certain feeling. They say: wait, one day; does the cabinet have any idea what incredibly complicated period we are going through?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u419	Yeah, absolutely. That is why I am pleased that you are asking that question. Then I can explain why I made that statement. That was to explain how that distinction between essential and non-essential was made, and I said to myself that I do not like the label at all. I know that people can take that in an annoying way. It's actually a distinction that you make between facilities that you can't do without and facilities that you could do without for a day without, without a qualification. 'Cause why are we doing that access test? To make sure that those culture makers can show their beautiful work to the people and that we can enjoy it with more people again earlier. That is why we ourselves attach great importance to the testing of access. We did not agree on this. That's possible. You do. But we are doing it precisely to offer culture makers more opportunities and more freedoms, and to give people who want to enjoy culture more opportunities to do so with a group. If you're back at a festival in the summer that's more your scene with a band, you hope to enjoy it with as many people as possible. To make that possible safely, we do that access test. Earlier, making more possible, more freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u420	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister to give an appreciation to the final motions. Then we'll go to the Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u421	I haven't seen any motions about traveling. There was still a single question from the Party for Animals. He asked why the cabinet is now letting the reins be celebrated. It's not that bad. On the contrary, we are very reluctant to take the step we are taking. We only switch from a generic to a country-specific travel advice. I think that is very helpful, because things will become possible for the countries where it is safe. It has not yet been made possible for those countries where it has not yet. So that's very specific for each country. In addition, we have of course introduced the quarantine law in order to impose a number of additional restrictions on high-risk countries. Actually, that's it, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u422	There is another question from Mrs Van Esch about that last answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u423	I asked about the flight bans. They run until May 15th, I understand. I am curious when the decision on a possible extension will be taken and what we will or will not have to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u424	Sure. The OMT has advised that a regime of testing and mandatory quarantine is equivalent to a complete flight ban. We also see, of course, that these bans lead to poignant cases. If the bill on quarantine duty is adopted, the cabinet will reconsider the flight bans. Your Chamber adopted a motion on Tuesday in which you call on me to ask for an OMT opinion on this first and to consult with neighbouring countries. I will, of course, respond to that and inform you about it before flight bans are lifted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u425	So they will be extended after May 15, because then the law has not yet been dealt with in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u426	Hold me for a while; I have no second term to return to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u427	There's no second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u428	No, exactly, so I don't have a second term to come back to. I don't know if that's gonna apply to all situations. There's no quarantine yet. For those countries where there is still a very high risk, we will indeed have to extend the flight ban. I think it would be good if Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen kept informing your Chamber about this. So you'll just hear how we deal with the flight bans. In any case, we are carrying out your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u429	I just want to make sure that we are not going to lift them by 15 May, until we have made different agreements. That's the answer I'd like to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u430	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u431	Thank you. Just before the review: the motion in part No. 1189 by Mr Wilders was dissuaded? You wouldn't have appreciated that. That was about AstraZeneca.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u432	I didn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u433	You didn't advise him. Okay. Yes, you would have explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u434	We have had a debate on this. I take it you're dissuading the motion because it says, "from next week." I can make that clear, bearing in mind our little interrupting debate: 'as soon as possible'. You said you'd be back on it in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u435	However, I'm going to dissuade the motion. That's why I don't want people to anticipate and not take the AstraZeneca vaccine now, because there's an alternative coming up pretty soon. That's what I don't want. I want them to take advantage of the offer that's there right now. When that's done, then... et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u436	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the VWS Minister for his reply and his appreciation of the motions. But I see that there is still a question from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u437	Yes, Chairman, yet another one, although I know it's late. I got an answer from the minister about the weddings. In itself, he made a good effort. He answered about now. I get that. But I actually asked if there would be more perspective in the next step, so if we were to take the next step, at the next enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u438	I don't think in the next step, but in the next step. In the next step we go back to groups of 30 at all, unless we make the exception for access tests; in that case more can be done. But in principle we start with groups of 30. So I think a sequel with a larger group will only be in step 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u439	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u440	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister once again. We're gonna go clean up now. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u441	I would ask Members to take their place again. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There were questions in three areas, and motions. I'll start with care and catching up. Next, I come to the questions about the labour market and the people working in healthcare. There were also a number of questions in the field of sport. Then I'll handle the motions. I'll start with the situation in care. We saw a positive press conference on Tuesday. The number of hospital and ic recordings by covid is falling and there is more freedom in the air. That's nice. But I think and know that the people who work in covid care also know the other side. They still fight through those overcrowded days and sometimes literally stand on falling over by the constant crowds. In this respect, we are increasingly living in separate worlds in the Netherlands. Just today I had "today" on my paper, but it's actually yesterday it's the day of nursing. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for paying such great attention. Just today and yesterday, we are asking each other for attention to be paid to this situation in the care sector. This is not only about hospitals, but also about general practitioners, in disability care, in ggz, in home care. Throughout that chain, the hustle and bustle continues by covid. Step 2 of the relaxations can be put in place if the reduction in the number of hospital admissions continues sufficiently, but it does mean something for the care. Unfortunately, it doesn't mean that people can finally take a day off. People in healthcare must continue to work on three fronts at the same time. First of all, they continue to work very hard to capture the large stream of covid patients in this third wave. In addition, they will do everything in their power to continue to provide care to other patients as much as possible at the same time. Thirdly, they are working on plans to catch up with all these delayed operations and treatments after the third wave. It is very important to prevent health damage in waiting patients. But there must also be room for themselves, to rest, to recover from an incredibly difficult period. In my reply, I would first like to address the current situation in the care sector. Then I will explain what actions we have taken together with the care to ensure that this covid care and the regular care are as far as possible. After that, I will also deal with the plans for catching up with care and the recovery of the care staff. We have seen today's figures and have also been recalled in the debate. Today we have the biggest drop in hospital occupancy since January. But I'm careful, 'cause they're day rates. They are still wobbly and we know a relatively high variation, but also a lot of regional differences. Because that third wave takes so long, the pressure on hospitals is long and constant. It suits me to give everyone who works in the care a huge compliment for the way they work, but especially for the way they work together to cope with that pressure. I am thinking of the ROAZ presidents, the hospitals, the National Network of Acute Care, and they are keeping a close eye on this situation: the domes, the NZa, the IGJ, the nurses. The IGJ indicates that there have been times, particularly during the week of 26 April, when the situation was very acute. I've been getting a lot of signals about that myself. I think they've reached the Chamber, too. It is thanks to this joint effort of the parties that we have saved this. The IGJ also points out that it is impressed by this cooperation and solidarity. The major bottleneck remains the availability of sufficient nurses. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has also indicated: to take care of all those patients, it is unfortunately also necessary to scale down some of the regular care. That's incredibly bad for the people involved. I'm gonna peel that off a little bit, because there's a lot of questions about it and there's a lot to say about it. I hope you'll allow me. I want to start with the care in the hospitals that continues according to schedule: the outpatient treatments, the diagnostics, the controls and the semi-acute care. The care that is being scaled down concerns treatments for which people have to stay in hospital for more than one day that can be postponed. The decision whether or not to postpone that care is taken in accordance with the agreements made by the Federation of Medical Specialists for that purpose. They aim to reduce the risk of permanent health damage by delay. In recent months we have seen treatments from classes 4 and 5 from the framework of the Federation of Medical Specialists. It's about non-critical planning care. But we have seen in that third wave, because it was so long and so intense, that an increasing number of hospitals have also had to scale down treatments from class 3, the critical planned care. That is the crucial concern that your Chamber has also called for a great deal of attention today. That's the care that needs to be delivered within six weeks, because it's about health damage. Then it's cancer patients' surgery or even transplants. On May 10th we were in the situation that the NZa reported that 45% of hospitals could still provide critical scheduled care fully. I am also pleased to note that in no hospital has all critical planned care been scaled down. That's lucky, because we have to avoid it as much as possible. The fact that this care has to be delivered within six weeks gives us the responsibility to make up for it in good time. That catching up shouldn't take too long. That is why it is so important that the number of covid patients in hospitals continues to decrease.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u443	This is making me really despondent. The Minister of Medical Care has been reading texts for a year. That's what you're doing: just reading civil servants texts. You look up from time to time from your cathedral and then you look up at the chairman, then you wave your hands once in a while. But you're just reading texts, and we've been asking you to do something about it for a year. And you're not doing anything. On 4 February, the Chamber adopted a motion from me asking for a short-term approach to regular care and its overtaking. That was three months ago, almost four months ago. We haven't seen anything yet. If you are already here, you come here every time you read a story of "yes president, and three weeks, and six weeks." There are just people who have their care, cancer... I am not going to repeat all these examples. They're people with serious problems, and it's about heavy surgeries. The Chamber has been asking you for a year, every time: come up with a plan and do something about it. And you come up with nothing, nothing at all. Where's the plan? When do we get your plan? I asked the Prime Minister last time: can you tell me when people can get their delayed operations? The Prime Minister says: yes, there will be a plan, I don't remember, but I'm going to look at it in second term. In second term, he came back to it. Sorry to take you so long, Madam President. Then he said: yes, the minister is not here now, but she will soon come up with a plan. Where's the plan? It wasn't in the mail again last night. Where's your plan? Stop reading stories. Come with that plan!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u444	I followed the debate last time, even though I could not be there myself. That is why this week in the letter from page 71 to page 76 I say that that was in small font was already taken an extensive advance on that plan. Since there have been a lot of questions asked about it, I would like to say it here as well. That takes a lot of time and I want to do it carefully, precisely because I know that many of your Members of Parliament, including Mr Wilders, keep asking questions about this. I'm gonna come to the end with how I'm gonna do it. For this it is not only important that you take the direction, but also that there is support. There are several layers in that plan. I want to be careful to do the same. I can do that in a few sentences now, but with that I do not do justice to the subject. I do not do justice to the questions from the Chamber. I certainly do not do justice to the efforts of the Ministry. I would therefore like to say to Mr Wilders: you are being served, I come to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u445	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Echt werkelijk geen sprake van.]] You think I'm crazy? No way. I have adopted a motion for a resolution, and I am simply asking the question that I have already asked three debates in a row, even when you were not there: when is that plan coming? People want to know when that plan is coming. I don't want to hear six pages of fine print and now "sit down and you'll hear." When's that plan coming up? You can tell me when that plan is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u446	Then I'll finish with the conclusion, but I'm going to tell the whole story anyway, because a lot of questions have been asked about it. But in the end, it's a four-layer plan. One layer is the critical planable care, for the short term, that we are talking about now. The second is the recovery of the people in the care, because they have it heavily. I'm gonna tell you why later. The third is the catching-up care, because that is why we have been asked from the Chamber, that question comes from the field and that is what we want ourselves to do. The fourth layer, also much desired by the Chamber, is the long-term view. How do you handle the spare capacity of the nurses on the ICU? I am committed to having support for this plan, so that people in health care, when it comes, will say, "This is mine." That is why I would have liked and could have sent it for this debate, but I will send it every week after Pentecost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u447	I'm getting an answer now. If only you'd put in the letter that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u448	It's in the letter, on pages 71 to 76.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u449	...you bring it in the week after Pentecost, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u450	The second week of May. That's what the letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u451	So you're coming with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u452	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u453	Not next week, but the next week you come up with a plan to do what you promised after the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u454	Yeah, the week after Pentecost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u455	I would now like to give the Minister the opportunity to unfold the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u456	These are elements of the plan, Mr President. This is the run-up to the plan. I really want to share it with your Chamber in this way, also because a lot of questions have been asked about it. Perhaps it is also good to look back at the beginning of the pandemic, because there is also the germ of what we are going to do now. The first wave was actually the hardest, because we got mugged by it. It was really all hands on deck and that is why we said at the time: we want to avoid that at another wave. That is where the LNAZ action plan to scale up comes from. That's what happened. Staff has been trained. The National Coordination Centre Patient Spread has been set up to take away as much pressure as possible. But in those plans we assumed what we thought we knew at the time, namely that covid would come with peaks and valleys. During such a peak, you should scale down some of the regular care to make up for that once the peak is over. But that second wave and that third wave really didn't work out that way. There we have seen no peaks and valleys, but a constantly too high plateau. That is why I note that the agreements with health care for scaling up and spreading have been respected and even more so. But the pandemic also went differently than we expected and the pressure on people is now immense for a long time. We came in October with the temporary policy framework acute care for the care that could go on. That meant more cooperation and all these agreements are still the basis for our work. The most important thing is that there is no arbitrariness. Wherever you live in the Netherlands, you need to be helped in the same way as someone who lives in a very different place. The Chamber also noted today that the postponement of regular care cannot go on indefinitely. It's about care that needs to be delivered within six weeks. In any case, it makes me very happy to see in the figures that the influx of covid patients starts to decline, because then there will also be room for catching up with care and the oh necessary scaling up of regular care. It means that people in care can go to rest and recover. The latter is at least as important as the first, and we are trying to support it as much as possible by controlling the pressure on care and care workers and by creating more financial space for educating people. But we also do so with social initiatives for training temporary support staff and health promotion initiatives. That is why I am very pleased that we have been able to vaccinate the people in care with priority. As I said in the interrupting debate with Mr Wilders, it is very important that you do this together with the field parties. Our health care is designed by the people who work there. I find their ideas and their lessons incredibly important. The NZa is currently working with the field parties on arrangements for that catch-up care. How are you going to do that in a good and predictable way for people? In other words, how are you gonna get people to know what they're up to? We want people who are faced with delay to be helped quickly again, and here too we want to do so without excessive regional disparities. One of the possibilities we are looking at for this is the spread of patients that we are now using at the heart of the crisis, so that we can provide infrastructure for catching up later. I am also saying this towards Mrs Hermans. Another important point is that we are working on the recovery of the people who work in the care sector. We have asked the Federation of Medical Specialists and V&VN to take the lead, because they know their supporters best. As I have just said, this is the story that I want to send to the Chamber in two weeks' time. The Chamber can then count on a coherent story about the critically planned care, the recovery of care, the catching-up care, but also the longer-term perspective. It will also be a separate letter, because I realize the problem very well when I record 5 pages of even 5 pages in a letter of almost 90 sides that often comes at night. So we're going to make it a separate letter, which is also aligned with the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u457	That's nice. It is also good that you mentioned a specific deadline, because I know that Mr Wilders asked for it several times in the previous debate. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u458	I would like to ask the Minister the following. Of course it is interesting if you write down how you are going to do it; we will also think about it. But there's only one question that matters. When will all those whose surgery, hospital visits or visits to the specialist have been postponed receive their care again or when will they be told when they will receive their care again? That could be about knee surgery, about heart surgery, about what kind of surgeries. But very concretely people are just curious when they will get the care that has been cancelled earlier. They understand it's been canceled. That's annoying. No matter how many pages it is, I hope the people at home can understand and hear when they have insight into getting their surgery or appointment. Would you also like to try to make that as concrete as possible so that people know where they stand when they read that letter? Is your letter going this far? Because that's what this motion was meant for. That's what people want to know at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u459	It's my touchstone. When we look at how the virus is going, we see that if we move as we move now, we can say in June that we are getting the critically planned care that we are now delaying. Then you can start catching up. So the critically planned care is June. Then what I want in the plan. I want us to look at how many people we're talking about. Can we say it's until December or until February? Eventually, it's also communication from the doctor and the patient. Are there any options in this? For example, can you go to a hospital down the road sooner? Or do you want to go somewhere? That's the kind of thing that's gonna be in there. But for me it is the touchstone of whether it is concrete for the people who work in care and for the people who receive care. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u460	That would be a good answer. Because of course it's about the people whose care has been postponed, seeing that as a kind of guide in which they can look up. You can't do all that when their care is delivered again. That's the question. Quite specifically, it's about sitting at home waiting for a kidney transplant or a new hip, or whatever, and then following your letter knows: I can do this with my doctor or in a hospital, or I can choose from it. So it's as concrete as possible for the people. That's actually what it's meant for. I hope that'll be in the plan, because that's what we're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u461	That, I say to Mr Wilders, is also why it may take a little longer than I would have liked your Chamber to have wanted or Mr Wilders to have wanted. I just need the field here to make it so concrete. Mr. Chairman. A few more... no, just a little more specific. Eventually, a patient in the office will know exactly what applies to him or her. But you can say with this plan: okay, this is the expectation, how does it apply to me? Then there are a few other questions in the area of care. Mr Kuzu had a question about long covid, long covid. I have already indicated to your Chamber what action we are taking on this issue: the support of C support, but also the multidisciplinary integrated directive, in which the Federation of Medical Specialists, GPs and the Long Alliance Netherlands are working on a directive on aftercare. We would also like to keep that up to date. And we paid for the paramedical care in the basic package. I recently informed the Chamber of the implementation of Mrs Marijnissen's motion asking for two changes to the paramedical arrangements. I'll inform the Chamber about that before the summer. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Berg asked about the anticipation of the advent of new infectious diseases. I think she raises a very important point. As a result of a Segers motion, we have outlined the future. We will also further shape this aspect in one of the forthcoming letters. I think it is very important that we work with the other countries in the European Union, but certainly also with the Netherlands itself, on those, as it is called, pandemic preparation. You can see that if we also have to scale up through new variants, we still need the lessons again to come up with an appropriate approach. I have to say that we are, of course, in full control of this wave right now, but it certainly has the attention. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga asked about the negative effects of ivermectin: do we put them against the negative consequences of not treating corona? In his direction, I should like to say that I shall be doing so in the same way as Mr Kuzu, who said that the use of medicines, as well as the drafting of treatment guidelines, is to medical experts. That's not up to the government or me as minister. At the moment, the advice of the medical experts to use ivermectin only in a study context is because there is not enough clarity about the effect on corona. This is also the view of the Foundation Working Group on Antibiotics Policy and the European Medicines Agency. What we do do do is make funding available for innovative treatments. There are also several investigations in progress. If there are studies with study proposals, they can report to ZonMw. Mr. Chairman. I come to another point: developments in the labour market. Several Members of Parliament referred to the ESC report which was issued today and which we all asked for. I'm really glad it's there. I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the committee in the ESC which has looked at these issues, in addition to what we had already put into effect as a cabinet. These are subjects that are also addressed in the formation. So we asked: can we get this SER report so that we can get it involved in the formation? I made an appointment next week with the chairman of the committee, who wrote the report, because I want to walk right through it and take it all the way to me. I, too, have not succeeded in doing so today, but as far as I am concerned, it is a very valuable report with an enormous breadth of subjects: from salary to autonomy and also control. I think and hope that the purpose of this report to contribute to the creation of a new cabinet will also find its place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u462	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u463	I just have a little procedural question. The Minister responded positively that it is indeed necessary to look at pandemic developments, new infectious diseases and so on. Does that mean a judgment room for my motion in part No. 1192? You went to the labour market, so I just had that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u464	I had the motions at the end, because then I could refer to the debate and give a judgment. I have a rather different organization than the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u465	In any case, that still offers prospects for a positive pre-opinion on my motion. The minister says we're gonna read it. I think that's a good idea. We're not gonna vote until Tuesday. But one of the things that this ESC report says, apart from the fact that there is undoubtedly money to be paid for the salaries in the care, is: don't wait, we can't wait. I don't know what your day looked like. I was able to get something from today's debate with an oblique eye. There's an above average risk that it's gonna be a while. On the other hand, there is a majority in the Chamber who has said: we want those salaries to go up. There is now an ESC report that says: we want these salaries to go up. Then this is supposed to be the time, isn't it? You have cover in the Chamber, so to speak, to work out those proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u466	I do not want to limit the ESC's report to the question of "more salary or not," because there is a lot in that report. The report indicates that working conditions need to be worked on. I asked for the advice myself. The Chamber asked for the opinion. So it's an advice that I'm going to take very much to heart. I have been able to read a little bit in it, but I do not think it is fair to give a whole reflection on it now. The report does not mention amounts, but indicates directions. It says, and I agree with Mr Kwint, and I think that we should adopt that opinion and not all of us should do other studies. Mr Kwint says that the report says that we do not have to wait. The report says don't do all kinds of other investigations. That is, in my view, a slightly different starting point. We asked for the report just before the formation period, because if you're going to do something extra, you're going to have to get it from somewhere else. That is also why I must tell you that, unfortunately, the motion tabled by Mr Kwint is not going to give the judgment. As far as I am concerned, it is something we have said that we are involving it in the formation. But the choice for the one also means a choice somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u467	Mr Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u468	Now the cabinet pretends that at this time the Chamber could not be able to think along with that. The Chamber has thought about this and the Chamber has said: come forward with proposals. Then, if these proposals are here, we can see what we can find, whether we can find another cover or pay with something else. The simple question in the original motion was to come up with plans before the summer. That's not too much to ask, is it? Certainly not with this report in hand and certainly not when you see the urgency of the ever-increasing staff shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u469	We have already exchanged this in the Chamber several times. I have also always indicated that we, still in missionary status, had taken a number of decisions in the budgetary procedure. That we could make the ovals available, that we could draw an extra 130 million for a number of things that are very pressing and to which the ESC report also touches. That we could also do nothing structuralally, but could do the bonus for 2020 and 2021, and that for the more structural story, starting from 2022, we said: that's up to the formation. I did my homework. That's where the report is now. That is the responsibility I have as the outgoing minister. In the end, the Chamber also has its own responsibility. There are motions from the Chamber that I have said: I cannot implement them in missionary status, because it is not possible to make the structural investment that this requires. But I do think it would be a good idea for a new cabinet to look into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u470	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u471	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint also asked about people who unfortunately left the care because of aggression. In the Covid letter of 13 April, we indicated a number of things about this. The next step in this process is to really get to work with the representatives of employers and employees. We have also put in place a subsidy for this. This will enable the organisations to start working on things that are really important for the employees, as the research has shown. I am thinking, for example, of additional information or training, or of applying clear standards and rules in the workplace. In addition, I am looking with the Minister of Justice and Security at how we can use the research results to increase the willingness to report and report in the sector. Mr Kuzu asked about the FFP2 masks in the care. He called in motion to order the RIVM to do so. We have also had a number of exchanges of views on this subject in the Chamber. I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, good protection is really top priority. I have also had consultations with interested parties to underline with each other the conclusion that there should be no obstacles for people who think it is necessary to use an FFP2 mask. It is the OMT and the RIVM that create basic principles for how you use them. An important task that lies with us is: do we have enough in stock and is it affordable? We have also done the stress test on the stock for that. There's plenty of supplies. When it comes to purchasing costs, there are multiple cost schemes for covid that employers can rely on. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Berg asked about the use of status holders to get to work. I recently looked at this with the Minister of SZW, when there was an amendment and a motion, I thought of D66, but I don't remember anymore to support the assessment procedure for highly trained foreign healthcare professionals and to use a buddy system. We have started a process, and we are also talking about it with a number of parties, such as the Commission's foreign health graduates and the Association of Foreign Doctors. I'll come to the motion later on. Appreciation. Mrs Van der Plas read an e-mail about the BIG register: the demands made on nurses. She said that they would be weighted by 1 January, making it harder for people to return to care. I can report that the nurses' admission requirement has not been increased. We have modified the training programme for re-enterers as of 1 January 2021, but we have not increased it. Why did we change it? In 2019 there was a broadcast of Nieuwsuur. It called into question the quality of the programme that was there. There were a lot of complaints about the old training programme. There was then a collaboration from the profession: the nurses and caregivers, the employers, the MBO Council and the non-feesy education. Together they renewed that training programme. They have said: it has to fit with the target group and the point is that you test the participants against the final competences of someone who has just graduated as a nurse. Perhaps it is good to include that the purpose of the BIG Act is the safety of patients. It is precisely in order to maximise the scope for people who have been out of care that we have said: we are suspending the re-registration obligation for nurses. Since March 2020, nurses no longer need to re-register. That saves a lot of administrative work. And more specifically: in March 2020 it was also made possible for former nurses with expired BIG registration from 1 January 2016 to be self-employed in healthcare. Let me say the following in the direction of Mrs Van der Plas. It has mentioned a number of individual situations. That makes it very difficult for me to go into that from here, but if she is willing to do so and those people are okay with it, I would suggest that she send that mail so that we can give them individual advice. Mr. Chairman. I still have a number of questions to ask in the field of sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u472	Mrs Van der Plas would like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u473	I understand that this would discourage the motion and that you would like to contact these individual cases yourself. But I've been getting more messages from people with this. I don't think it's true what they're writing. So there are people who have problems with that permission. Three examples have already been mentioned in the e-mail. My concern lies most in lowering the pressure on care. So to talk to people individually about this... It seems to me that it just needs to be relaxed so that people can get back into that register as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u474	It was about not being able to assess an individual situation from here on. The picket posts when it comes to the registration of people who work in care... you want it to be safe for the patients. So you just need a certain registration. This also means that training must meet requirements. Of course, it also looked at what the profession considers important and what you can offer training. There are minimum requirements. In addition, just now, at the heart of the crisis, we have said that it is really a shame if people who have recently left care should not do it anymore. So we changed that re-registration. But in the end, you also have to keep an eye on the balance. People who work with patients also need to know how to do certain actions. How that works out in an individual situation, it's hard to estimate from here. Mrs van der Plas mentioned the example of someone who had been a soldier, and of a lady who might already have some basic skills. But we might be able to explain to people why things are going a certain way. Or we find out that in a particular situation there has been wrongdoing, and that is always easier when it is viewed with such a person himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u475	Mrs. Van der Plas, is this enough? Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u476	Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions in the field of sport. In the debates with Mr De Jonge and the Prime Minister, too, the question is often "why can't there be any more?" Came by. Certainly in the field of sport, I have to admit that I have sometimes asked some questions myself in a consultation. There is a certain thought behind the step we are taking now, namely that you make things possible outside of it. It is precisely from the point of view of the Dijkhoff motion that we are going to look at indoor sports and indoor culture, under restrictions in as many sectors as possible. Those restrictions are the 1.5 meters and a maximum number of people. That's the ratio behind it. You can put equations next to that, but there's been a lot of changes about that, so I won't do that. Let us hope that we will get to that next step as soon as possible. Mrs Hermans asked: what exactly is on the table? Well, at least there's the trade-off on the table to tackle the group size. It has not been said that it will actually happen, because that depends on the epidemiological situation and on the comparison with other sectors. This also applies to possible outdoor training. Mr Eerdmans rightly pointed out that it is quite difficult to play a soccer game if you have to keep a distance of 1.5 meters above the age of 27 years. I've seen those messages, too. The other side is: it's allowed again; you can be on that training field again. At least that is a step in the right direction. Would we have wanted more together? Yeah, but at least that's on the table in the next step. Mrs Westerveld referred to the situation in many associations and also at gyms that people quit. That is very annoying, especially given the social objective of sport. We have a lot of contact about this and we also have a number of specific arrangements for sport. The Mulier Institute also conducts continuous research for us into the impact of corona on the sector. This is certainly a subject I would like to include. I really liked the fact that Mrs Westerveld also paid particular attention to disability sports. This is an issue that we are also paying particular attention to, for example, through the additional resources from the support package. These funds then go to the Disabled Sport Fund, to MEE NL and also to Special Olympics Netherlands. Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint asked about Movement, the new normal. Mr Kwint also referred to Mrs Marijnissen's motion on this subject. It is clear that we consider this issue to be extremely important. Sport is indeed part of the solution, so I am very happy that at least there can be a little more now. The interdepartmental letter about moving as the new normal is almost done. I expect to be able to send it to your Chamber for the next Corona debate. Mr. Chairman. Then, referring to the debate, I am going to give an appreciation of the motions. The motion in part No. 1191, by Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Bikker, I give judgment to the Chamber. I do have a question with that. I hope I can read the motion as follows. I understand that you would like to have an insight into the ongoing initiatives. That's what we're doing right now. At the procedural meeting, Mr Paternotte asked for a response to the NOS article that mentioned this. I'm gonna respond to that. If I may read the motion in such a way that I shall respond to the motion in such a way as to permit me to state it in this way? Then I can give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u477	I'll take a look at Mrs. Van den Berg. Can she agree with this interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u478	I am very curious about what is and is not going to happen in that response, because we are, of course, asking explicitly for obstacles to be removed. We're gonna stick together. I'm fully pregnant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u479	The point is the plan of action. I'm also trying to be a little practical. I have also heard in the debate that it is about the obstacles, the obstacles and how you can use people's capacities more quickly. A response was also requested at the procedural meeting. I can respond to that and then we will see if that is indeed sufficient. I mean like this, towards Mrs Van den Berg. I'm not taking it off with a scribble. I'll give you a good response. The motion in part No. 1192 by Mrs Van den Berg talks about scenarios about the pressure on health care. I intend to carry out a stress test with the field parties on catching-up care in the summer. We'll just see if it holds, if you come under extreme circumstances. I would like to ask Mrs van den Berg whether that is what she means by those scenarios, because if that is the case, I can certainly give this motion a ruling on Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u480	I don't care what word is used, whether it's "scenarios" or not. But it is also important that we can get a heavy flu wave and a new corona variant and catch-up care. I want the various options that exist to be examined, I would just like to mention that all of them have been examined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u481	Yeah, I'll give her judgment room. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1193 by Mr Kwint, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I advise against this, referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 1195 by Mrs Kuik is what we are already doing, but I want to be able to specify that further. The way in which the catching-up care and critical planned care are handled is further mapped out. That's something we're already doing. This motion I give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1198 by Mrs Westerveld, on specific agreements with unions, is referred to the debate of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. Mr Van Haga's 1202 is about labeling. That is subject to strict conditions. The medical specialists currently advise against it outside of study. That doesn't allow it, so I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1209 by Mrs Bikker and Mrs Van den Berg on the inclusion of telemonitoring patients by the LCPS. I think that is a nice appeal, but it is going to result in an incredible amount of red tape, because the LCPS is getting the data from the hospitals. So that's a whole different administration than that you really have to get all kinds of things together through general practitioners. So I'm not suggesting this motion. Then the motion asks in part No. 1215 to see gyms. I have indicated what I hope we will be able to see on the next step, so this motion is giving judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1216 Mr Kuzu says: give the RIVM the order. But science itself determines whether it adapts guidelines. So I'm gonna advise against that motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1217 by Mr Kuzu. With reference to a letter I wrote on 12 February this year about the people with debt and health insurance, also specifically about supplementary insurance, I advise against that motion. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u482	Before my administration: the motion in part No. 1212 by Mr Eerdmans on outdoor sports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u483	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u484	Then I would like to thank the Minister and suspend the meeting until... Oh, let's see. 1219. That's right. That's the motion on the BIG increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u485	Yes. I would advise against this motion, referring to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u486	Yeah, dissuade it. Mrs. Van der Plas, it's about your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u487	After some consultation, I would like to put that motion to the vote on Tuesday, so it can now be removed from the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u488	The motion in part No. 1219 goes off the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u489	Maybe I missed it, but the motion in part No. 1210?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u490	I'm judging them, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u491	That's looking at the gyms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u492	No, the sex workers, the Tozo and the TONK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u493	That motion was given real judgment, Chamber. The Prime Minister has indicated that. Are we completely complete? Is everyone's records accurate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u494	I suggest we suspend for ten minutes, until 1:00. Then we'll vote on nine motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u495	I may be old-fashioned, but I sincerely wonder if all the motions that have been tabled are really in a hurry for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u496	No, we're going to vote on nine motions that are, like, in a hurry. We're going to vote on the rest of the motions on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u497	I wonder if those nine motions all meet that criterion. Mrs van der Plas has already said: I have looked at it again; it can be done Tuesday. Maybe we can do that with more motions. Again, I am sitting here and I will vote anyway, but this calls for a little discipline. Maybe there are more motions that can lose weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-9.u498	It's a call. We have made that appeal, and on that basis there are nine motions left. If there are any other motions for Tuesday, please let us know. Thank you, Mrs. Chicken.
