ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is a debate on the Amendment of the Animal Law in connection with the implementation of revised European animal health legislation, Section No. 35398. Before I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party, a preliminary announcement. There are no less than three Members today who make their maiden speech, if that is all right; we will start with Mrs Vestering, then Mr Van Campen and then Mr Boswijk. So this is going to be a joyous gathering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u2	I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the Amendment of the Animal Law in connection with the implementation of the revised European animal health legislation. In animal health, you also think of animal diseases. That theme is more relevant than ever, because this year we have been dealing with African swine fever, the avian influenza, the African swine fever is still not under control in many parts of Europe, and we are obviously dealing with COVID-19. During the past year, the impact of animal disease on humans and human beings may have been considerable, and it appears to be extremely contagious. That's something scientists have been warning about for years. Over the past year we have also seen the effects of virus mutations and how mutations can jump from human to human, from animal to human, from animal to animal and back. At corona we now see the British variant, the Brazilian variant and the South African variant. In those variants there are also many variations. So we really need to realise that an animal disease can lead to this in extreme cases. Unfortunately, covid is not the only animal disease that can jump over humans. 75% of the new infectious diseases come from animals. The new European animal health legislation pays more attention to prevention than before, says the Minister. But real commitment to prevention means more than bio-safety measures and good monitoring. This week it is six months since the Minister imposed a ban on the whole of the Netherlands because of the finding of nodules with avian flu. Since then, 700,000 chickens, ducks and turkeys have been killed due to contamination or proximity to an infected holding. Six months ago the avian flu virus probably came from Russia to the Netherlands via birds. While it was known that Russia could not control the avian flu virus, the Dutch breeding companies continued to export hundreds of millions of hatching eggs to Russia in recent years. Cynically speaking, Dutch poultry farmers jumped into the hole that arose because Russian breeding companies were affected by bird flu. The Minister is also involved in this. Because when Russia refused our hatching eggs because of the Dutch avian flu, it deployed the NVWA and its ministry to remove these trade restrictions as soon as possible. For example, the Netherlands is actively cooperating to further strengthen the cattle industry in Russia. This also increases the risk of animal diseases. But now back to the Netherlands and back to prevention. Even though all chickens, ducks and turkeys throughout the Netherlands are locked up their whole lives, that doesn't rule out bird flu outbreaks. Last year we saw again that the avian flu virus also simply penetrates into hermetically closed stables. That's what we've seen in almost all the previous avian flu outbreaks since 2014. I believe that in two cases it was stables where chickens could go out. So if you want to talk about real prevention, we need to stop dragging animals around the world and building the livestock industry in such countries. Then we must stop keeping so many animals on such small areas, so close to people. It is therefore significant that identification and registration are given great importance, but that chickens and pigs are kept in such large numbers that registration at individual level is considered too costly, as the Minister writes in the note following the report on this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr Wassenberg says we should stop dragging animals, but at the same time he concludes in his plea that a lot of bird flu outbreaks are caused by birds moving here from Russia. Then how do you intend to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u5	You can't stop that bird migration. What you can prevent is that animals in the Netherlands are also so sensitive. It turns out that the house is so huge, because all the animals here show hardly any genetic variation. If an animal gets sick, that means that most animals will get sick because there is no variation. That also means that these animals are in very unnatural conditions, on top of each other. I'm a biologist. I know about how the immune system of humans and animals works. I also know that these stressful conditions generally do not contribute to a well-established immune system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u6	I would like to make a comment on this. I live in the beautiful Kockengen, where we have been struggling for years with geese that look anything but stressful and quite relaxed. But they all died two years ago, and no one did anything about it. I would like to put that in the context that many other animals are also affected by the flu. Surely that puts your story in a different context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u7	No, look. Avian flu is found in nature. Then indeed birds die; that could be hundreds. What you see when a Dutch stable gets infected is that all animals have to be killed, that all animals are killed. You're talking about what I just said, 700,000 animals in the last period. The moment you continue with that tremendously intensive livestock farming you will also see that in such a case you have to kill huge numbers of animals. That's what we want to get rid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr Wassenberg shouldn't tell one part of the story, because he's now getting it all the way to intensive livestock farming, where animals are kept in stables. In bird flu it is very often the case that the chickens that are infected are the free-range chickens and the organic chickens; a system that according to the Party very much welcomes the Animals, and that is also fine. Every consumer has the choice. But why only say here that they are the stuffed animals and do not stick to the facts and say that the chickens that are walking outside are the first to be infected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u9	Let me just get back to the facts. I should also like to refer to the answers given to our written questions by Minister Schouten, who is here. Between 2014 and 2018 all avian influenza outbreaks were on closed farms, all of them. After 2018 it also occurred at two companies that were not closed. That means that since 2014, in the last seven years, all except two were closed companies. That's where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u10	Research by Wageningen has shown that free-range chickens and organically kept chickens are 11 times more likely to become infected with avian flu. What matters to me is that that piece of the story is always kept out. We just have to acknowledge that avian flu infection is caused by wild and water birds. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u11	If we're going to talk about the facts, I'm just gonna base myself on the Minister's answers. Then you're talking about the facts that we can all control. It is then clear that in two cases it has not been closed down in the last seven years and in all other cases it has been closed down. And what was the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u12	My second question is now missing. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u13	That it also occurs in nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u14	It's about the wild birds and the waterbirds. What bothers me about the story of the Party for Animals always, is that they always frame one group of farmers, as if it all came from there. In the past, spill-over farms or organic farms have also been affected. That's what you have to tell in your story. The Animal Party is a party that shows to society: we want to get rid of those livestock farmers, because we don't want to have to store animals, because that results in animal diseases. You even link corona to the Dutch pig and livestock industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u15	A little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u16	Sorry, I get emotional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u17	You're on your way!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u18	Well, it's all about me... you know, tell the whole story. I would like to discuss this with the Animal Party, but on the basis of all the facts, including its facts. I'm honest with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u19	I think I just talked about the facts. Let's talk about the wild birds. Bird flu is indeed found in nature. That's when birds die. In general, birds have a very large genetic variation, so there are also birds that are resistant to it. That's not something you see in Dutch livestock farming. There are indeed birds dying, but there are also many birds surviving. There will also be birds that do not notice or hardly notice. As far as the sidewalk is concerned, you explicitly say that we want to get rid of those cattle farmers: no, we do not want to get rid of those cattle farmers, we want to get rid of a lot of animals. That is a little out of the order of this debate, but we are trying to ensure that farmers have a earning model where they can earn a fair living with fewer animals. So no, we don't want less farmers, we want fewer animals, and that's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u20	That is indeed a different discussion. We'll feed it at another time. I'm sticking to my plea. Just grab everything. Then we can have that discussion fairly. Then you may also criticize me, really, not a problem at all, but: the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u21	I think I told the whole story, Mr. Chairman. I've been sticking to the facts, too. I also mentioned where I got those facts from. In this case, that is the Minister's answer to our questions. So if anyone's sticking to the facts, it's me. I'm going to go back to intensive livestock farming, with your permission, Mr. Chairman. Because as long as we do not tackle this intensive livestock farming, we will not change our relationship with animals and nature on a large scale and we will have to deal with new outbreaks of disease, with new zoonoses and possibly even with new pandemics. And with large amounts of animals being killed. Mr. Chairman. About these diseases and about the spread of diseases: pigs are already known in scientific circles as the "mixing vessels" for viruses. I'll translate that myself as "benders." A pig can be infected by a swine flu virus, by a human flu virus, by a bird flu virus. The moment one pig's cell is infected with three types of viruses, those viruses are going to exchange information. You're getting some kind of recombination of all that genetic information. That way, these three types of viruses can create a new supervirus. That is really the last thing we want: the birth of new virus types with potentially very, very undesirable consequences. In the words of Arjen Lubach: it is not the question whether we are ever going to have a new pandemic, but whether the Netherlands can organise it. The Minister states in the explanatory memorandum to this amendment that the new European animal health rules recognise that animal health and animal welfare are inextricably linked. Of course, the Party for Animals fully supports that. But there is still much to be done to improve animal welfare and the legal framework that should guarantee animal welfare. That is why we will shortly come forward with a number of proposals to take steps in this respect. I will begin with the ban on killing animals. Mr. Chairman. In the Animal Law, it is only prohibited for individuals to kill dogs, cats and geese. This leads to indigestible situations in dealing with extreme forms of animal cruelty. When you see animals being killed by private individuals, your stomach turns around. Mr. Chairman. I studied private internet groups for "animal lovers" a few years ago. Tips are exchanged on how to get rid of excess hamsters or guinea pigs as a hobby frog. What I read there really makes me sick and sick. There are discussions about what is more effective: hitting with a brick, hammer or curb. There are discussions about which mixtures of aspirin and painkillers you can use to inject animals to kill them, because a veterinarian is too expensive or refuses, if it is a good veterinarian, to finish perfectly healthy animals just because it suits the owner better. So the owners do it themselves. What you don't read on the forum but what you hear from other breeders is why some hobby breeders want to get rid of their excess animals. That's because they're the wrong color, so they don't yield enough if they're sold, because they're the wrong sex or because they're a few weeks too old. People want to buy young animals. Then the hobby frog picks up a brick or half a pavement and solves the problem in that way. Does the Minister agree with me that this is really a horrible way of dealing with animals and that we really need to combat this? If someone wants to get rid of a nest of puppies or kittens, put them in a gym bag, weighs the bag with a number of stones and throws them in the ditch, then he is completely punishable. But if that same person puts a nest of young guinea pigs in a gym bag, weighs up the bag of stones and throws them in the ditch, then he goes free unless the police can prove that the animals have suffered. In practice, this is very difficult, almost impossible. That means the police won't investigate. For it is not the killing of guinea pigs that is punishable, but the suffering of animals. So that means the unsub always walks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u22	I do not think the last thing Mr Wassenberg said is entirely correct. He's been informed of our veterinary forensic team led by Dr. From the Gutter and the first veterinarian competent in this matter. They even have a tracking dog that can track dead animals. They're coming to the scene. They even got a bus now. They're working with the animal police. They can demonstrate whether an animal has suffered and whether an animal drowned alive or drowned dead. That has also been demonstrated a few times. Someone said, "I dumped my dog because he was dead but I couldn't afford the cremation." But afterwards it turned out that that animal suffered, that he even scratched the jute bag and that he had water in his lungs. It was thus shown that the animal was thrown alive into the water. So that story doesn't quite add up; we can show if an animal has suffered, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u23	That's right. Mr. Graus is talking about a dog. Killing a dog is a criminal offence anyway, so is a cat. But you see that every once in a while in local magazines I have newspaper articles from the past few years that a sports bag has been found with a number of guinea pigs. It can be demonstrated, but then you lose hundreds of euros. That money just isn't always there. Because the suffering and not the killing of these animals have to be demonstrated, there is no trace at all. Why should you if it's not criminal unless it's really proven very clearly? In this respect, it is a cost-benefit analysis, which often falls to the disadvantage of the animal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mr. Graus, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u25	I will be brief, Madam President. The veterinary forensic team has worked for free for almost a decade. Or, that's just the way it is. Both the veterinarian and Dr. Van de Goot has actually done so in their spare time, but by now there are money flows from the police. Maybe we could stick together to make sure that structural money flows into that veterinary forensic team. That is a good thing for the budgetary procedure later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u26	Sure. Mr Graus also knows that I fully agree with him on this point and that we are fighting together to combat this extreme form of animal suffering and, by the way, less extreme forms of animal suffering. This is what I'm talking about. My plea, which I hope Mr Graus and his party will support, is to criminalise the killing of animals alongside dogs, cats and geese. So it gets a lot easier for the police to get the perpetrators prosecuted, and you don't get that complicated evidence in the sense that you have to prove that they suffered when you know someone drowned animals, which is hard enough to investigate. That makes it a lot easier for the police. I know the work of Mr Van de Goot. That is indeed very important work, but it is actually too crazy for words that it needs to be examined. If animals have been killed, you must first see if they have suffered or not. We don't need that intermediate step at all. The moment an animal executioner drowns an animal or kills an animal with a curb, such an animal must be punishable. I hope that Mr Graus agrees with me. Mr. Chairman. I'm really getting to the last sentences of my speech. The Animal Party believes that we cannot really let it happen in our country that someone drowns or smashes animals with a brick and that the police cannot do anything, because it is practically impossible or too costly to prove to what extent those animals have suffered. That is why I am tabling an amendment to fix this loophole in the law. Mr. Chairman. With more than a minute and a half left on the counter, I would like to give the floor to my colleague Mr Vestering for what her maiden speech will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you for announcing her maiden speech. Mrs Vestering, you have the floor. I believe that you have already tabled a lot of motions and have been here quite a lot in recent days, but now is the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u28	Sure, and on a very important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u29	Exactly. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr. Chairman. You and I grew up with it. It was for centuries where what our parents taught us in our earliest childhood: all ducks swim in the water. But when we're all not paying attention, everything's changed. Every year over 8 million ducks in the Dutch livestock sector have no bathing water, so they cannot swim, but also cannot wash their feathers. Without bathing water, their whole weight is constantly resting on their flippers. That's what their paws are for, and that's not what their body's built for. Young chicks fall over, lie down and die. They can't fly either. In duck farming, an industry that cannot tolerate daylight, hundreds of thousands of chicks die every year in dense and dark stables. The animals that survive feel water in the slaughterhouse for the first time, when they are pulled upside down on hooks under water in an electrocution bath. The ducks, or rather, the chicks are seven weeks old. Mr. Chairman. We could choose to teach our children a new children's song about the ducks, about how the animals are really kept in Dutch duck farming. But I'd rather stick to the original, so all the ducks can swim in the water. According to law, animals in the Netherlands should not be harmed or harmed. That is a good starting point, you might think, but the law adds something to it: you should not harm or harm an animal or harm animal health or welfare, unless it serves a reasonable purpose. Is torturing animals in unsuitable systems, where they spend life in the dark without their first need for life, a reasonable goal? I don't think so. Could the legislator have meant it that way? Maintaining is tricky. That is the conclusion of several evaluations and analyses. After all, the Animal Law has so many open and unclear standards that it cannot be controlled. Legal protection is so broad that there is no real protection. This creates uncertainty, discussion and the impossibility of effective enforcement. That is a major and structural problem, of which the animals are literally the victims. This has been known for years by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister also considers open standards undesirable. The Animal Law recognizes the intrinsic value of animals, their own value independent of their usefulness to humans, but yet animals in Dutch livestock farming are used as disposable machines. They are being bred to increase production, even with physical adjustments. Duck chicks are bred with extra breast meat, unnaturally many pigs are born per throw and sows are reared with extra teats. Cows are literally milked, sometimes up to 11,000 litres of milk per year, but their calf gets nothing and cannot stay with his mother. And when the animal runs out, it goes to the slaughterhouse. That's the fate of about 640 million animals a year in our country. Nowhere in the world are as many animals kept on such a small surface as in our country. The organised suffering caused by these hundreds of millions of animals per year is subject to minimal legal protection. The legislation that should protect animals allows a great deal in its exceptions. Practical interests serve as legitimate grounds for doing everything with animals that is prohibited in principle according to the principles of the law. Mr. Chairman. There's gotta be another way. We can take care of that here and now. The Party for Animals isn't the only one who wants us to deal with animals differently. For more than twenty years now, the cabinet after cabinet has indicated and concluded that the way in which livestock farming has been set up needs to be changed. It was the Wijffels Committee who, exactly twenty years ago, returned the Dutch livestock sector to the drawing board. I quote: 'In the highly developed urban society we now have, the historically grown current livestock farming no longer fits. Economicization and scaling up have even led to amorous phenomena. In addition to animal welfare, current intensive livestock farming also causes environmental problems. Intensive livestock farming, as it is now operating, will not be possible anymore." Beautiful words followed, written in a series of notes on agriculture, food and animal welfare, with the aim of allowing animals in livestock farming to exhibit their own natural behavior in 2012, but by 2022 at the latest. There will be more promises. Former Minister Brinkhorst promised on behalf of the second purple cabinet that there would be a ban on the transport of live animals over long distances by, again, 2022 and that there would be a ban on the keeping of rabbits and laying hens in cages. Physical interventions would be prohibited, such as castration of piglets, dehorning of calves and burning of the rear toes of cocks. There were further plans of approach, discussions with the sector, more promises and fine words. Likewise from former Minister Verburg, who promised on behalf of the Balkenende IV cabinet that by 2022 the animal's perspective would be leading the establishment of stables and the management of the farm. Animals should be able to show their natural behavior, they should be given daylight and sufficient space to move well. And there would be an end to physical interventions to adapt animals to the way they are kept. These promises came from all parties in the present outgoing cabinet, still a majority in the new Chamber. We still have eight months to live up to these fine promises and good intentions. If we do not, we will make politics completely unbelievable. Mr. Chairman. As a Green Member of Parliament, I would like to believe that we can count on the political promises of the House of Representatives. When I look at the election programmes and all the animal-friendly words during the election campaign, I am hopeful. For example, a majority of the House of Representatives wants to strengthen the legal status of animals, to tackle animal abuse, to protect animals from barn fires and to put an end to cage housing. Let us not waste another 20 years with new plans of action, opportunities for the sector and more false promises. Animals in livestock farming depend on people for their well-being and health. This requires clear and enforceable regulation. Let us keep the promises made by our predecessors to the animals and to the parliament. I am therefore tabling several amendments to that effect. In order to provide animals in stockfarming with legal protection against organized animal suffering, such as keeping ducks in stables without bathing water and carrying out interventions without medical need, I am proposing an amendment that adapts an animal to the manner of housing, is not a reasonable aim to cause pain or injury to an animal. As former Minister Verburg said: "The perspective of the animal must be guiding the establishment of stables and the management of the animal." It is also unacceptable to keep animals in cages. Animals can hardly still show their natural behavior. It is unacceptable that animals still have to live in cages in the meat and egg industries in 2021. It is time to put an end to this and to keep the promise of former Minister Brinkhorst. I am therefore tabling an amendment to this effect. Mr. Chairman. As many rulers have promised before, there must be an end to the stressful transport of animals over long distances. Think of the thousands of cows that the Netherlands transports annually by sea to countries in the Middle East. This is a recipe for great dramas and serious animal suffering. We recently saw the 20 ships with animals trapped by the blockade of the Suez Canal. And last month, a drama ended with two ships with thousands of cattle, which were floating around the Mediterranean for almost three months, killing all living animals. We also need to look at the circumstances in the country of arrival. Last summer Eyes on Animals made images of slaughterhouses in Libya and Lebanon, where Dutch cattle also end up. The animals were horribly treated and slaughtered there. Now let's put an end to this unnecessary animal suffering. That is why I am tabling an amendment to ban the transport of animals by sea to countries outside the EU. Mr. Chairman. Two more urgent amendments are needed to the Animal Law. I'd like to present it to the Chamber today. Animals in livestock farming are entirely dependent on people, on us, when it comes to their safety. Yet an average of 143,000 animals die a horrible death every year during barn fires. They burn alive or suffocate in smoke. In the recent report, the Security Research Council concluded that money was the key to the cabinet's efforts not to better protect animals from barn fires. Government plans to reduce the number of barn fires have not worked. Fire safety has even deteriorated in recent years, including through technological laps, such as air scrubbers, and through low-emission floors. However, hundreds of millions of euros are still allocated to this. The Ministries of BZK and LNV have indicated in interviews with the Research Council that they have so far found no reason to lay down additional rules to improve barn fire safety. I hope this isn't meant to be. I'm asking for a response from the Minister. The Safety Research Council makes the following recommendation, and I quote: "Ensure adequate regulation and supervision to substantially reduce the number of animal victims of barn fires. This in any case relates to the creation of a basis in the Animal Protection Act for Farm Animals against the dangers of barn fires. The law requires fire safety to have a full position vis-à-vis other values and interests." On behalf of the SP, BET1, GroenLinks and D66 I am tabling an amendment to create this legal basis for the protection of animals from the dangers of barn fires. Finally, Mr President. In a country where 640 million animals are bred, used and slaughtered every year, and where many animals are born daily and other animals are rushed through the slaughterhouse at a murderous pace, a civilised parliament can no longer look away from the consequences of bulk production on exports. Animals are exploited at a maximum cost. Intensification and scaling were paramount. Stables have become factories, and the whole system is so focused on efficiency that it has to keep going. If there is a kink in the process from breeding to slaughter for any reason, there are immediate problems. We saw that when exports fell silent because of the corona measures and direct surpluses of veal and duck meat, for example. Poultry abattoirs called for fewer animals to be raised, but the central direction was lacking. Overcrowded stables threatened when fewer animals could be slaughtered due to the breakdown of staff and supervisors and the temporary closure of a number of slaughterhouses. Animals had to stay longer in the stables, which threatened to become even fuller. But the Minister did not have the legal capacity to introduce breeding restrictions to prevent the crowded stalls from flowing with young animals and preventing serious animal suffering. Nor does she have that possibility when it comes to restricting the breeding of dairy cows, since we may not have a new derogation in 2022. That is the exception in the European manure policy, which allows the Netherlands to produce more manure and therefore to keep more animals than is justified. This means that in nine months' time we will have more manure and therefore more animals than we can keep in Europe, which means that newborn calves and pregnant cows will have to be transported directly to slaughter, as happened in 2017, when the phosphate ceiling is exceeded. By being able to introduce restrictions on breeding in time, the Minister can prevent such a new drama. The Animal Party wants the Minister to have the legal opportunity to intervene in such situations in order to prevent serious animal welfare problems or even destruction of animals. I am therefore tabling this amendment in order to give the Minister the legal opportunity to introduce breeding restrictions and prevent animal suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mrs. Vestering, congratulations on this wonderful and important moment. I don't think you could have chosen a more important topic than this. I'm suspending for a few moments, so we can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u32	Let's move on. Mr. De Groot of D66, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this country has been plagued by zoonoses for over a year. That makes today's topic very topical. Corona is a zoonoses, as you know. That is an animal disease that can be transmitted from animals to humans. The World Health Organisation, the WHO, has long warned that dealing with animals, and the way we keep them, is problematic. That was also the reason why D66 wrote a zoonosis note in the previous period. We really want to go to a way of keeping animals and a way of farming that is in balance with nature and that is robust, unlike the current system that is vulnerable in many areas, but especially in the field of animal health. We have also said that we must combat wildlife trafficking, including a source of zoonoses, as well as the loss of habitat. That is why it is a good thing that this legislative amendment is in place today. The European Union will focus on harmonisation and vaccination, and more on precaution. I'm going back to the past year. We saw at the minks actually that there was a very long wait until that animal disease could eventually be dealt with. D66 said: first, take the most far-reaching measure, the preventive clearance, to see from there exactly what is going on in that mink farming. That was actually the lesson of the animal diseases that we had in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Those were the swine fever, the FMD and the avian flu. We said, "Take the most far-reaching measure first, and then remove it." But the Minister said that I do not have the powers to do so. At some point the OMT-Z gave the advice to clear up. Then the minister said, "I don't have the capacity." But the number of mink is clear, if you compare it to, for example, the 100 million chickens we have. So I'm asking the Minister what's going on with this clearance capacity in the case of an animal disease. Under the current legislation, does the Minister have the powers to take preventive action if necessary? I'll get back to the goats. The number of goats tripled after the Q-fever epidemic. That epidemic killed about a hundred people and caused countless victims. How does the Minister see this from the precautionary principle formulated at European level? Europe is committed to bio-safety. In the system we have now, you actually have no choice but to make sure you keep the stables clean and that you don't drag any animal diseases. The moment it goes wrong, the intensity and the way we keep the animals are such that it can go very fast. That's why D66 said: look at more space for the animals per farm and make sure you have varieties that are perhaps less bred on productivity, but that are more robust and healthier. This is not a guarantee against the occurrence of animal diseases, but it is a way of making the fragile system we now have more robust. What is the Minister's view of circular farming against broadening livestock farming and livestock farming when it comes to the objectives that you want to have with it? Then the vaccination. It is a good thing that Europe now, after all the experience we have had... Those who have seen the documentary De Boer Republic will also know how deep it intervenes in the companies and the people who are involved, the farmers, if it is not properly understood why this is happening. This has to do with the European non-vaccination policy, which we were actually in favour of. Until 1990 we even anticipated its introduction, but in 2000 we said: that is not the way to do it, because in the case of animal disease we must be able to vaccinate in order to contain it in this way. But an important condition is that you have to put the products of the vaccinated animals on the shelves, otherwise it is simply delayed killing and that is not very helpful. What has the government done in those nearly 20 years to market the products of vaccinated animals? Have agreements been made with retailers, for example in Germany? Have agreements been made in the context of world trade to ensure that the products of vaccinated animals can at least be placed on the shelves? Because we have a marker vaccine these days, which means you can distinguish it from antibodies against the actual virus. How does the Minister see the preventive vaccination? I shall come back to this later, because until now it has only been about the application of vaccination in the fight against an animal disease. Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about the Wadden Sea and the avian flu that's in place right now. Dozens, hundreds of animals are lying there now. I'd say they fall out of the sky by bushes. For the volunteers they're gonna pick up, it's really hard right now. 'Cause what's gonna happen? The volunteers call the county and they say, no, you have to be with the NVWA. And then they call the NVWA and they say, no, you have to be in the county. Minister, do you want to be clear about who is responsible now and who the people who care about those animals can address? Would you like to direct that too? D66 asked earlier to come up with a protocol to clean up live animals, semi-living animals, or to take care of them if necessary. The Minister replied that there is a protocol for dead animals. That is true, but the question was: let me repeat this: whether there is a protocol for still living animals. Mr. Chairman. I come to antibiotics; a sign that the system we have now is vulnerable. We import 800,000 calves. Although improvements have been achieved in reducing the use of antibiotics in calf farming, this remains a time tree on which we live. The MKZ also came out of calf farming twenty years ago. It is still necessary to administer an antibiotic to half the calves. In fact, 90% of the remaining samples of antibiotics containing resistant bacteria are found. You can really question, for both human health and animal health, whether we should maintain calf farming in its present form. I'm very curious how the Minister looks at that. Then the use of antibiotics in pigs. Improvements have also been achieved there, but the use of colistin has increased by 50% in recent years. Colistin is an antibiotic that is actually intended for humans. It also has to do with the farming system. The pigs stay very close to the sow, which makes them sick if they need to be weaned. There are farmers that they keep longer. That is an example of a way to make the system a bit healthier. How does the Minister see that? Does she also have the concerns that D66 has about the use of antibiotics that are important to people? Then the positive list. This Chamber has accepted a motion to establish a positive list for amphibians, birds and reptiles. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? Mr President, I will conclude. This legislation is in itself a good step towards a robust, improved animal health. Unfortunately, she is still very focused on farming as we know it. I have argued that it is extremely vulnerable. I made a few proposals to see if we can't make them more robust, so that the way we keep animals in the Netherlands becomes safer for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you, Madam President. This concerns the amendment of the Animal Law in relation to the implementation of the revised European animal health legislation. That always worries me, because we lead the way. I always think: if we have to adapt something for the European Union, it usually means a step back, or at least a stop because we have to wait. Those are things that I always think about immediately, because you cannot deny that we, however you turn or turn, are ahead of you, even though it is often an insufficient level of animal welfare here. I am working with my group on something quite different, in cooperation with Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party. Hopefully Mr. De Groot will join us. At least he'd think about it. We are writing an initiative law to anchor the rights of animals in the Constitution. That's a long-cherished wish, actually one of the reasons I went into politics. I used to call that in my own animal program and when I used to be on the road as an animal ambassador myself. Back then, I was always talking about animal police, about what was 113 at the time, and it has now become a suicide line, about a veterinary forensic team, about jail time for animal executioners, and you name it all. The rights of animals should also be incorporated into the Constitution. That's what we're gonna come up with as soon as possible. We're gonna work together a lot, I hope with as many parties as possible, to make that happen. Then we will be rid of a lot of misery and we will be able to spare ourselves a lot of debates. In addition, the investigation and enforcement services are better able to do their job. Then we'll be out of a lot of trouble. Animal executioners can therefore be dealt with harder and faster. We cannot stop the introduction of this regulation, but we do want the national animal law to always remain leading, with "ei," I say for the report and stenography service, or stenography and report... what is it? Did I say it right, Madam President? I always say it wrong. In any case, we want the Animal Law to remain guiding and not suffering, so we do not want to have to wait or adapt to a much lower level of animal welfare due to interference from the EU. Of course, we are not opposed to cooperation in the fight against and prevention of animal diseases in the context of animal and public health within the internal European market. We're never against cooperation. Nor are we opposed to economic cooperation. A few points have already been raised by my colleagues, among others by Mr Vestering and my colleague, Mr Wassenberg, from the Party for Animals in Limburg. The PVV has always been against long distance transports from the beginning. We've also arranged for mobile killing units, these MDUs, to arrive. This is now being abused, but that is another debate, Madam President. All this has been done because we want carcass transport and not long-distance transport of live animals. That is all because of the PVV, so we support that. In the matter of the barn fires, I would very much like to participate. I just said that when I congratulated Mrs Vestering. In 2010, a Graus motion was adopted to ensure that a stable fire prevention plan was put in place in cooperation with the insurance companies and the national fire department. Inventors should also report, for example the inventors of the "Stable Safe" system. Animals should be able to escape when a fire breaks out. Animals are choking a lot now. Only sprinklers don't help, because then the animals often choke much faster. You have to make sure that animals, like humans, can escape fire. All this can be done via the pressure relief system that is already in stables. It all happened by the national fire brigade; they have also been here in the States General. If farmers want to test with this, then there must be a test site and then they must get a discount on their expensive insurance premiums. My colleague from Limburg and our chamber biologist, Mr Wassenberg, is pleased that he is still here, when I had already sat down and asked me if I am against the killing of animals by private individuals. I have tabled motions on this too; we have even worked together on it. Of course, the PVV is against the killing of animals by private individuals. Actually, it's illegal to kill an animal. Euthanasia should only be performed by a veterinarian after finding that there is a medical problem or a welfare problem. Often an animal is very old and the owner dies in a car accident. Then a 16 or 17-year-old animal is no longer placed in an asylum or elsewhere, but then let's leave it that way. That's for a vet to decide. We don't want that to happen on our own. Perhaps I can reassure you with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u36	Chamber biologist Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u37	Yeah, our chamber biologist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u38	I would like to ask Mr Graus the following. We just had an interrupting debate when I said it would take the police a handful of work to prove or prove that an animal has suffered. Then Mr. Graus said, "You can do that." With my amendment, I want to make it much easier for the police and the investigation services, because they do not have to carry out the burden of proof. If you just say "someone killed an animal," it doesn't matter whether the animal suffered or to what extent the animal suffered. It's just criminalizing, that's all. Does Mr Graus agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u39	Sure, sure. In the past, we have always worked nicely on this, including Mrs Ouwehand and Mrs Thieme, whom I have also experienced. We are, of course, all in favour of this. I have to look at the amendments at once, but there are often considerations or observations in the text, which is in the case of motions for resolutions which we cannot support. I hope it is formulated in such a way that we can support it, because in principle we agree. But sometimes there are strange things in amendments or motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u40	Mr. Wassenberg, are there any weird things in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u41	I can reassure Mr Graus. Anything in the amendment can blindly support Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u42	Okay. Then you didn't have to come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u43	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u44	It's unnecessary interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u45	I'm grateful, though. There can never be enough attention. I thank him for that. Madam President. I want to say something about the barn fires. Rat populations are very underestimated when it comes to the spread of viruses. They're really evolution champions, like Dr. Weijman, a rat expert, a pest expert, it says. They're very intelligent and hypertensive animals. For barn fires and the spread of viruses, we need a special rodentorium. I've asked for it before. The Minister may wish to start this process in her missionary period. I'd like to propose Dr. Weijman. That is the only real expert I know when it comes to this. He's retired a long time ago; I think he's in his 70s. He may be able to help with this in his spare time. Then we'll get him out of behind the geraniums. That would be very nice. I can, of course, mention him here. He advises us and all parties. Besides, he's not our party. I'll just add that, otherwise he won't be getting a job anymore. I want to conclude with the animal diseases, because I've run out of time, I see. Outbreak was a movie I saw when I was young. Then I always thought that was a far-from-my-bed show, but it's all gotten really close. It probably always has been, but by measuring and knowing and knowing we can better detect and name all viruses and diseases, especially in recent centuries and certainly in recent decades. I would like to conclude with the following. Whether you believe in the theory of evolution or in the story of creation, the animals were there before humans. I often say that to the Christian parties. They must be sensitive to the story of creation. There too, the animals were there before the humans. We're allowed to live with the animals. Let's treat them more respectfully. I would also like to welcome all of the new Members of Parliament; I have not been able to get to know anyone by being able to work together on this covidge as much as I have in the past 15 years. I have worked with MPs from the CDA, from the VVD, from all parties, because I always want to be binding when it comes to this kind of good business. Blessed evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Graus. There's a colleague of ours in the back left. He makes a report of this debate and is of the Service Report and Editorial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u47	Well, I guess I said it one time. Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u48	I now give the floor to Mr Van Campen of the VVD. It's his maiden speech for him, too. He is therefore not being interrupted by Mr Graus. That's quiet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Last week I said goodbye to the city council of my hometown Zwolle. In addition, I received a beautiful photo book as a gift. Farmers' farms are called it. On the back you can read: "Almost everyone in the Netherlands has a connection with farm life. A lot of parents or great-grandparents come from the farm. Not as crazy as the fact that 750,000 people worked in agriculture 50 years ago." I feel that connection, too. You should know that I've really hesitated for a long time whether I'm going to be the umpteenth MP who is going to look for a lost family member to get involved in his debut speech. But also my family had three generations ago a farm in the Achterhoek. I hesitated because, of course, I apologize to my colleague Mr van der Plas about my own personal farming experience. I never knew my great-grandparents. Grandpa didn't take over the farm after the war and I don't know what it's like to have to stand up for day and dew to milk the cows in the stable. Mr. Chairman. Yet I mention it today, because as with many people my family history is hidden in that sense in that beautiful photo book from Zwolle: almost everyone in the Netherlands has a connection with that peasant life. Sometimes we should think about that more often and be proud of it. We are talking about all those farmers, peasants and their families who make sure that we can pour ourselves a cold glass of milk in the morning, which ultimately get the potatoes from the field into the pointy bag of fries and that in the evening there is just a nice piece of meat in the pan. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes an image is sketched as if all the problems of this time were the fault of the farmer. Of course there are challenges, but most farmers do not close their eyes to that either, and do not oppose that change. Farmers want to co-operate and participate in the solutions to these challenges. It's a trade, farmers. Their craftsmanship is indispensable in the search for necessary solutions. Mr. Chairman. I think it is a great, great privilege, hopefully, to make my modest contribution from this Parliament. I am determined to work together in this beautiful portfolio over the next few years on decisions, on choices that work for, as we sometimes say, farmers and citizens. Today I start with this amendment of the Animal Law. Even though this legislative amendment seems to be a European must in the first place, it is certainly about something. We are talking today about the prevention of infectious animal diseases, the fight against these diseases if it has gone wrong and the protection of public health. Colleagues have already mentioned that we have seen and noticed painfully enough over the past year that diseases do not concern themselves at all with national borders. That is why it is crucial that we agree on this at European level, in other words with all the Member States. The VVD is pleased that these agreements are in place and are officially entered into today. In the Netherlands, we have a reputation to uphold when it comes to animal health rules. Risks and consequences of animal diseases can be immense, not only for animals, but also for the economy and for human health. For example, look at the corona outbreaks at mink farms or the outbreak of avian flu. The VVD would like the other European Member States to take over this good reputation of the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to be proactive in this regard at European level? This is important not only for the Dutch competitiveness in Europe, but above all for the health of all of us. We're considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. We read that the European regulation we are talking about today is going to replace no less than 50 basic directives and regulations, which are going to replace 400 directives, regulations and decisions. Of course, we all love that. But how does the Minister ensure that Dutch animal farmers actually notice this simplification? For the time being, the VVD sees an administrative increase in particular for hobby holders. They will soon have to comply with all registration and administration obligations, whereas, as we read, this does not directly contribute to increasing animal health. As far as our group is concerned, this also applies to the new obligation for holders of professional animals to have sufficient knowledge of animal health. Mr. Chairman. If it doesn't benefit animal health, why do we do it? Is this really necessary? Does the Minister intend to raise this issue in Europe, the exception to the identification and registration requirements? And, of course, the VVD does not want to give in to combating the risks of animal diseases. But just as very flattened: what does this mean for the animal farm with six chickens and two goats, the pet store with 35 fish and five rabbits or the care farm with four ponies in a meadow and a few goats? How do we prevent them from being burdened with a heavy regulatory burden? The Minister indicated that measures on top of European rules would later be developed in lower laws and regulations. Until the moment of my contribution, I was just trying to figure out what we have already been sent and what we still have to expect. Can the Minister clarify that? We are concerned about the regulatory burden. Is she willing to talk to the Chamber about what's still coming to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. In the new rules on animal health, we read that vaccination, Mr De Groot, was also mentioned there, and that it was given a full place to prevent these diseases from being caused by miserable animal diseases. Especially in these times this sounds so logical to me, a relative newcomer to this dossier. I think that most of us have already been referred to this issue, which has seen a major episode of the FMD crisis, De Boer Republic. Farmers' families, active and sometimes no longer active, describe in an incredibly compelling way the impact this crisis has had on them and in some cases still has on them. Then why does this vaccination still seem to be such a problem, such a taboo? In the documents of the cabinet, we read that the legislative and regulatory framework cannot be the obstacle here. The cabinet also states that there is in fact no study that states that vaccinated meat should be excluded for sale. Can the Minister state exactly what the problem is here? What exactly is the situation in other countries? Can we break this taboo? And what's it gonna take? Mr President, I will conclude. I started my contribution with my family story. A story that, given the rich agricultural history of the Netherlands, probably applies to a lot of Dutch people. At the site of De Stokhorst, my great-grandparents' farm, a residential area was built in the eighties. The farm is gone. Yet, whether you are a farmer or a citizen, from the city or from the countryside, a lot of Dutch people feel connected to farming. Growing up and living in the East of the Netherlands, I feel connected to that peasant life. Let us use the knowledge, experience and craftsmanship of all these farmers in this Chamber to find the solutions to the challenges ahead. That cooperation is more necessary today than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you so much for your passionate story. Congratulations on this maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mrs van der Plas has the floor. She was already ready. We've seen her before with "the book." Maybe that'll make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u52	I hear someone asking about it now, but no, I'm saving my maiden speech for another moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u53	There will be another subject that is even closer to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u54	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u55	Okay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u56	I had prepared something, a bit along the lines of the motions that are about to come, but I have now written something else, also in response to what is being said and shared here. We are talking about animal health and we are talking about animal diseases. Suggested: Any living being can become ill. That's true of humans, that's true of animals. So I actually want to take these two issues apart: you have animal health and you have animal diseases. As far as I am concerned, these are two different issues. Speaking of animal diseases, I can see that there is a certain frame coming up, as if the Netherlands is a barrel full of animal diseases and zoonoses, a ticking time bomb that could explode at any moment. But when we talk about swine fever, for example, there has been no swine fever in the Netherlands for 25 years. There has also been no FMD in the Netherlands for twenty years. Why aren't those diseases around anymore? Because the Netherlands learned very hard lessons at the time. The Netherlands has made arrangements for this, for example the whole I&R system, the identification and registration system, so that in the Netherlands the government of each animal in the livestock sector knows exactly where it is located. When a disease breaks out, we also know exactly where to find the fireplace and we can take action. In addition, hygiene protocols have also become increasingly strict. More and more people have learned that from the farm to the cattle market run with cows with all kinds of diseases, with absolutely no control over them, as it happened decades ago, a time when some people are still longing back, the "Ot and Sien" time is no longer possible, because the hygiene protocols have become increasingly strict. There are also farmers who take additional measures on top of the measures in force. Look at parties like the Animal Party, but also other parties. Measures are being taken to keep the animals healthy and what do you read in the newspaper the next day? Then suddenly it's called laboratory stables. Another frame. Like farmers are just doing crazy "Jekyll and Hyde" stuff. But because of this hygiene, because of this I&R, because of all the measures, because of the good cooperation between the Ministry and the sectors, we can just manage these animal diseases very well here. Our universities, veterinarians and scientists are the most educated people in the world. Even renowned people, for example Arjan Stegeman, say that Dutch livestock farming cannot be linked to a pandemic as a covid. What can be linked to a zoonoses, to a widespread disease, are signs, for example, Lyme disease. 25,000 people in the Netherlands get sick of a tick bite every year and get Lyme disease. Are we going to say we have to halve nature? Of course not. We must work together to ensure that humans and animals remain healthy. I would like to say specifically that, apart from excesses, because of course there are farmers, there are farmers who are not so close to the law, but there are such people in all sectors of agriculture who prefer to work with healthy animals in the Netherlands. Not with sick animals. Why would they want to work with sick animals? It is said: yes, that is logical, because that is economically good and then they make money from it; they just want to fill their pockets and then they have to stay healthy. That is not true; a farmer wants to work with healthy animals because it gives job joy. Because it gives pleasure to work. I want to end with: you can't keep animals if you don't like animals. Let that be the starting point here. I really hope so. I hope, for the next four years, that that will be the starting point and that we will at least agree on that. I'd like to stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u57	I have heard a lot of things I do not agree with, but let me stick to the facts. Mrs van der Plas says that there have been no major zoonoses in the last twenty years. Now I hope Mrs Van der Plas has ever heard of Q fever; I assume that. Of these, 100,000 people have become infected and more than 10,000 have become ill, of which more than 1,000 are chronic. More than 100 people died from it. That's a disease that's been transmitted from animal to human. Has Mrs. Van der Plas forgotten that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u58	No, definitely not. I did not say at all that there were no major animal diseases; you will be able to see the images. I said there's no more FMD and there's no more swine fever. I didn't say there were any bigger animal diseases. By the way, Q fever is a bacterium and not a virus, so we have to distinguish that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u59	Of course, but it is still a zoonoses, namely a disease that passes from animal to human. It doesn't matter if it's a bacteria, a virus or a fungus. At the time a disease is transmitted from animal to human, it is a zoonoses. 75% of the infectious diseases of the last ten years have been zoonoses. They come from animals. That is not what the Animal Party says, but what the World Health Organisation says. So it's just really a big problem after all? You can't trivialize the Q fever, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u60	But I'm not doing that at all. You haven't heard me talk about Q fever at all. You bring it up yourself and then you come to the conclusion that I'm playing it down. Definitely not. That's terrible. In fact, I'll tell you that my brother has had Q fever himself. In our family, that has intervened very deeply. So I'm not playing that game at all. We learned a lot of lessons from that Q fever. That Q fever also made us vaccinate. Why is there no more Q fever, at least not as epidemic as it was back then? This is because vaccination is taking place and farmers have become increasingly aware of hygiene measures. But then a lot like yours will frame that again like "look, they're laboratory stalls." Yeah, my gosh! It's not right on the left. It's not good on the right. But that should also be appreciated. And then tell the true story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u61	I'll tell the true story of those lab stables. Those are from those hermetically sealed stables. Those are the same stables where the avian flu has appeared over the last seven years, except for two cases. All but two cases have occurred in those hermetically sealed stables, those laboratory stables. So it's just not the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u62	But that disease doesn't develop in those stables. It's a setup. Then there are hygiene protocols, probably you have to take a shower, but then there has been something or someone inside who has not complied with those protocols. That's how it gets in. But the avian flu doesn't come from that stable. At least that's not the information I have. Maybe you do; I'd like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u63	Were you at the end of what you wrote down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u64	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u65	Okay. Thank you. We now come to the third maiden speech during this debate, by Mr Boswijk of the CDA. You have the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "And it came to pass in those days, that a commandment came out of the Emperor Augustus, that the whole world would be described." Now you're all thinking, that's the Christmas gospel. Very good! Mr. Chairman. With these words begins the gospel about the birth of Jesus, two thousand years ago. When this census of Emperor Augustus took place, about 200 million people lived on our Earth. Because of hunger, war and disease, that number rose very slowly. Sometimes it even decreased, as when there was a plague epidemic in Europe in 1346 and 1351, which later spread over the rest of the world and 75 million people would die. As a result, the world population would only count around 1800 1 billion people. The industrial revolution, in which machines took over the muscle of people, and the increase in medical science eventually allowed us to welcome the 3 billionth world citizen in 1960. Mr. Chairman. Increasing life expectancy means that by 2025 we are expected to live with 8 billion people on this earth. Do you think for a moment about this breathtaking truth: that diseases, wars and famines have less and less control over our lives? In his book Sapiens, Yuval Noah Harari even predicts that some people could be immortal by 2050. Anyway, this book is for corona. In the meantime, the world turned out to be a little less creative. He didn't know. Yet, never in world history has our country been spared so long from wars and famines. "Never again war, never again hunger" was the creed of Sicco Mansholt, who after the war was Minister of Agriculture on behalf of the PvdA. He himself had found out how hungry and war are. In the meantime, however, we are silently saying goodbye to a generation that has been directly exposed to hunger and war, and is also slowly dying out of the realization that the peace in which we now live is not self-evident. Famine and war, two issues on which I, as spokesman for Defence and Agriculture, am concerned. Because it's not the first time we've been naive. In his book Die Welt von Gestern, the famous Austrian writer Stefan Zweig described his life before World War I as a quiet time. He further writes: "The Boer War, the Japanese-Russian war, even the Balkan war didn't penetrate a centimeter deep into my parents' existence. They turned all war reports in the newspaper as indifferently as the sports coverage." Mr. Chairman. I am concerned about the almost fatalistic attitude of our Dutch. Where, in the 1980s, 3.7 million signatures were collected against cruise missiles, two years ago, President Trump was deafeningly silent when he suspended the INF treaty with Russia. One isn't even a pacifist anymore. No, they don't care anymore. The development of the SSC-8, a Russian cruise missile with a range of 2,500 kilometers, worries me less than the lukewarm response to the distress call of four operational commanders about the state of our armed forces earlier this month. Yesterday we had a committee meeting on the European Defence Council. Only four of the 17 parties were present. Freedom isn't self-evident. And then there's the other big subject: famine. Produce as much as possible for as little money as possible. It is still called the Mansholt doctrine, and it has worked very well for a very long time. Our food became more diverse, better, cheaper and we have an agricultural sector that none, but no country can match. Farmers and fishermen make sure that we have healthy food every day with hard work. And yet it wrings. Because no crisis, not even the nitrogen crisis, will benefit from one-liners such as 'half the livestock' or 'there is no nitrogen problem'. Everyone knows, including the farmers, that steps need to be taken. But everyone forgets, except the farmers, that very big steps have already been taken. Around 1984, there were about 2.5 million dairy cows. Now that's only 1.6 million. And while CO emissions from electricity production have increased by 54% since 1990, that of the agricultural sector is much lower, despite the fact that our car ownership is growing faster than our population. We must also remember that every potato, every litre of milk, every package of butter that is not produced here in the Netherlands will always be worse for animals and the environment. For every cow that will disappear from the Netherlands, two to three will have to come back abroad to achieve the same milk production. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the agricultural sector will have to take steps as it has been for centuries, but always in consultation with farmers and their families, because they are entitled to do so. Eventually, farmers are just people like you and me. Don't do anything and let it all go, that's not an option either. 60% of farmers have no successor. I have spoken to farmers who, with tears in their eyes, told me that they have advised their children not to follow their parents. Then why don't these farmers see a perspective? First of all, that's because there's hardly any money being made. While some people still put the farmers away as millionaires, the reality is that most dairy farmers have been writing red figures for years. But also because of the many negative reports about their profession, that all farmers would be animal executioners, for example. Then explain to me why 20 years after FMD some farmers still suffer from PTSD every day. Mr. Chairman. Our words as representatives of the people matter. I'm not asking you to talk to the farmers, but I'm asking you for more empathy. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps my contribution is a bit gloomy, but I am not at all, quite the contrary. I don't believe in the feasibility of our society. I also do not believe that our earth has a large thermostat switch that allows us to reverse the temperature. But I do believe that humanity has never been so capable of influencing the consequences of its own actions. These challenges do not frighten us as a CDA, but challenge us. History is the teacher of life. In 1962, the United States was far behind Russia in the so-called "race for space." At that low point John F. Kennedy made his famous speech picking up the glove with the famous words "We chose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills..." Mr. Chairman. We need a moon-shot programme for the agricultural sector, where we no longer see farmers as the problem, but as an essential part of the challenges we face together: climate change, biodiversity, water, nature. Let us pay the farmer, as the producer of our food, as the manager of our landscape, well for that and then not keep too much away from his work. Then let's start right away with the Amendment of the Animal Law. We are seeing an increasing demand from society from the same farmer for animal welfare, animal health, food safety and environmental aspects such as the environment. Various farmers work on super-statutory requirements through market concepts or quality systems. However, the earning model and the earning capacity of our farmers and farmers are under increasing pressure. How does the Minister view these developments in the light of this proposed Amendment to the Animal Law? We know the so-called SME test. This means that we are testing new laws and regulations with SMEs to help them think about the practical feasibility of new rules. Let us also use this test for the agricultural sector. Then we call it the agricultural practice test. Because there isn't really any sector where so much theory is conceived that has a big impact on practice, which is often very uncomfortable. How does the Minister view this idea? We already have a motion for this as a CDA. Mr. Chairman. In 2001, the FMD crisis broke out. The evictions that led to them have had a major impact on many farmers' families. In the following years, it was agreed in the Netherlands that healthy animals should be vaccinated in the event of an outbreak of an animal disease for which a vaccine is available in order to limit the outbreak. This is what we call vaccinating for life. Now we as CDA are not against that at all. In fact, we think that's a good way. However, one problem is that this also means that products from vaccinated animals can no longer be marketed. These products do not want the consumer, because it is assumed that this meat is of lower quality from vaccinated animals. This then leads to the collapse of prices in the Netherlands. A farmer who realizes this will not cooperate or will not be able to cooperate in vaccination. From one day to the next, his livestock will be worth €0. And what does the Minister say in the written procedure? "The current rules and international standards do not constitute a barrier to the marketing of products from vaccinated animals. Any thresholds that might exist come from choices made by international market players, and the public authorities play only a very modest role in this." We don't see it that way. Because this only leaves the whole responsibility of society with the farmers. The minister leaves it to the market. She says: "So it is also up to market players to find solutions to possible problems of marketing products from animals that have been vaccinated. Despite the modest role for the government in this, I remain committed to better acceptance of these products, both nationally and internationally, wherever possible." We do not see a side role for the government here. We really do have a leading role here. The CDA believes that a solution should be found for this. Because why would farmers still have their cattle vaccinated, if they are signing this before the end of their business? Furthermore, the picture is that the other European countries will be clearing animals in the event of an outbreak of animal disease. In that case, the farmer will receive compensation for his animals. Does the Minister also talk about this with her European colleagues? Has the Minister made scenarios for the situation that livestock farmers refuse to vaccinate? If so, what do they look like? If not, what are the expected problems? Mr. Chairman. It seems obvious to me that animal disease maps are being adapted. In the written input, the CDA Group also pointed this out. The Minister responded that the roadmaps would be kept under review. Does the Minister know what's changing? Mr. Chairman. The Animal Health Regulation lays down the new obligation for holders of professional animals to have sufficient knowledge of animal health. However, I do not read how this knowledge is to be obtained and how, for example, testing is to take concrete form. Can I read the Minister's reply in the written round of this legislation in such a way that nothing changes to the Dutch working method? Mr. Chairman. The CDA is concerned that the development of the Regulation leads to a disproportionate burden for keepers who have just been referred to as "buckets' of only a few poultry or for keepers of animal species which are not yet subject to any requirements, such as bees or bumblebees. Is it already clear which exceptions to the implementing acts can be made? Mr. Chairman. These are all major challenges that we may all face from different interests and ideals, but in the end we need to ensure good governance of this country together. I look forward to that. In fact, I'm really excited about it. I wish you all a great deal of blessing and wisdom, and above all a great deal of pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Boswijk, for your lovely story and congratulations on your maiden speech. I'm going to suspend. I'm going to suspend even longer, until 7:30. Then we can also congratulate you for a longer time. Then we'll listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u68	We're going to listen to the minister for her answer in the first term. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, allow me first to say a few words to the people who have just made their maiden speech, because that is a memorable moment. We've been looking up some information on the relevant MPs to see what they've done in their past and what qualifications they all come with. Mr Van Campen says: enthusiastic, cheerful and heart for East. The words he spoke showed that too, for example how he looks at his family and the whole policy field on which he may now be spokesperson. He is especially someone who knows the way in The Hague, but then it is also good to connect with society. I wish very much to Mr Van Campen that he will continue to do so, just as he tried to make that connection very much in his maiden speech. Then we can move forward in the sometimes somewhat complex and polarized dossier called "agriculture." But he is also about nature and food quality, and we are undoubtedly going to talk about this a lot. Then Mrs. Vestering. She has also had quite a career in the animal domain, to name but a few. It has been well introduced into all kinds of files. That was also clear from her contribution. I belong to her a lot of passion. We often talk about intrinsic value, but I also belong to her as an intrinsic motivation for animal welfare. Maybe you will allow me to mention that she is very well at home in classical music. She's been at the conservatory, so maybe she can surprise us at that point. It would be nice to highlight the beauty of the music here as well. I am curious to see how the discussions in the group are going with the chairman of the Party for Animals, who still has a slightly different taste in music. We're gonna owe you that. Then Mr. Boswijk. He has already introduced himself where his passions lie and what his background is from the Defense Department. I happen to know from another angle that he was also active in the Defense Department himself. I don't know if that'll hold until you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u70	On a low pimple.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u71	He says it's low-pitched. From his deepest motivation, he has indicated why he has accepted parliamentary membership. I think there is also a deep motivation for the areas where he is now a spokesperson. I liked that he said: we have to do it together; we have to find the connection with each other. That is very much in line with my own beliefs. If we want to get on with dossiers, however we can do so, we can always do so with a sharp debate, and that must always be done with respect for the people we are talking about. That came out nicely in his contribution. I would like to welcome you to this committee. I'm not going over it, but at least I know it's a fine commission. Turns out so, I guess. Mr. Chairman. I'll get back to the bill soon. The bill before us reminds Members that it is mainly about animal health. Animal health is not an isolated thing. Of course, it also has to do with public health, with how we want to deal with our animals and with how we give hands and feet to them. Animal diseases, as you have said, are not bound by borders, and that is why European rules are needed, including for the proper functioning of the internal market. This legislative proposal is based on the European regulation. It is a whole package of measures that are now being modernised and integrated into a new regulation. Today it has already become applicable, as strange as that sounds. We still have to deal with the regulation here, but at the same time it has already entered into force. The Regulation contains a list specifying infectious animal diseases subject to European rules. That regulation will be implemented on the basis of the Animal Law. The Animal Law contains a number of articles which are not fully in line with the Regulation. That is why we now have this bill, so that we can have it properly aligned. The required adapted lower national regulation at the level of AMvB and ministerial regulation has already been established on the basis of the Animal Law. The AMvB has also been sent to your Chamber with my letter of 6 April. Mr Van Campen then says that we are right to take animal health requirements very seriously and wonders how other countries actually do that. Are we the only ones who introduce and comply with these provisions so strictly? Am I also prepared to commit ourselves to seeing how we can possibly improve this in other countries? I'm sure I'm willing to do that, and we're willing to do that. The new animal health regulation also contributes precisely to this objective. It is a regulation which applies throughout the Union. It also harmonises more than the old situation, where there were mainly directives that had to be implemented. It also includes new issues that contribute to this, for example the possibility of adopting harmonised measures at European level for new emerging diseases. So this law really contributes to what Mr Van Campen is asking, so that we, as countries in the Union, also have much more coordinated rules. Of course, if necessary and we have the impression that it creates an uneven playing field, I will question this. Mr Van Campen also asks if I would like to pick up an exception to the I&R obligations. How do we prevent us from burdening small businesses with too much regulatory pressure? I heard other members ask what we do with the hobby holders or the one who, so to speak, has one chicken. The petting zoo and the care farm also came here, with some qualifications. As far as administrative obligations are concerned, I also think it is important that these requirements are proportionate, especially in relation to the objective. This concerns in particular certain new registration requirements. The European Commission has yet to come up with detailed rules that allow Member States to grant certain exceptions. We have asked for this a number of times, because we also do not want the one with the one chicken, or the petting zoo or the care farm with very few animals, to be covered by a very heavy regime, with associated administrative duties. So that's what the conversation is about. The Commission has already promised that it will come forward with this, but that is not the case at the moment. We are now in a transitional period, which we have received from the Commission in order to be able to implement things properly. The deadline from Europe was quite tight, and then we wanted to have enough time to implement it properly. I will therefore also use this period to prevent the introduction of all kinds of rules for the single chicken and the single cow, pending what the Commission has come up with in order to give them precise form. Then we formalize that. So I think that this is a practical way of putting into practice a not too heavy control pressure for the small hobby holder or the petting zoo. Mr Boswijk had asked that too, so I think I have already answered that. So we can do this formally by focusing on a derogation from those I&R rules, which are likely to come from Europe. That is what we are doing when we have more clarity about it. Mr Van Campen further asked what else is coming to the Chamber on the basis of this law. I will inform you about the lower European regulations that the European Commission is still developing. We just had an example going on: the hobby holder. In the letter of 6 April, I also informed you more about the ministerial arrangement, as it entered into force today. As usual, I will also inform you about current developments in the field of animal health, such as the development of avian influenza. Of course, together with my colleague from VWS, I will inform the Chamber about the advice of the experts we have asked to look at the approach of zoonoses. We have set up an expert group for this and it will probably come up with an opinion before the summer on how we can proceed with this. If that leads to matters relating to this law again, then of course you can look at it again at that time. By the way, there will also be an amendment to this law very soon. This is because a number of issues are not yet fully covered by this law for reasons of a more technical nature. We just couldn't settle some things that still have to be done quite well in this law. So there will be another change to this bill. I mentioned this in the letter of 6 April. Then I come specifically to the zoonosis policy. We've been talking about that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u72	I've been waiting for the cup of Europe before I made my interruption. I would actually like to ask the Minister about this commitment at European level. What I understand is that this regulation is working directly, including for all Member States, and that it is a uniformation. I think that's what we're cheering for. But if I have understood the law and the regulation correctly, then we, as the Netherlands, are doing something about it, because we have a unique position of animal husbandry in the Netherlands. That is, of course, to be welcomed, but I would also like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to pass on to Europe the enthusiasm and the values we attach to the care of that animal health, so that those high standards that we apply in addition to those European regulations in the Netherlands are also valid and admissible in other Member States. Otherwise, we are the best boy in the class; we want to be, but we also want to be competitive in the Netherlands and we also want our other fellow European Member States to comply with those animal health rules that we consider so important here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u73	It is true that we are adding a number of rules to this law at national level. This is not very common, but in this case we believe that it was necessary, especially in order to ensure, on the one hand, that a number of things that are already practiced are properly guaranteed in the legislation. On the other hand, it sometimes works better to arrange this in such a way. This also has to do with our unique situation surrounding animal husbandry in the Netherlands. We have a lot of animals and that requires you to take care of a number of things very well. This situation also brings with it a great responsibility. It is also often a codification of things that already work in practice. This does not mean that it applies in each country, so that these rules necessarily apply to other Member States. However, when it comes to matters that are really directly related to animal health and can directly affect the control of animal diseases and that kind of thing, and we see that there are still opportunities to improve that in other Member States, we are also discussing this in the pre-existing Gremia. For example, the CSRs also have a dialogue at European level. CVO stands for Chief Veterinary Officer; that is our own Ministry veterinarian. They also discuss matters, for example what was going on around the minks. This was changed in a number of Member States. For example, we want Europe to regard this as an emerging disease, so that we can also apply this approach more harmonised. In practice, therefore, we have discussions of this kind. It is, of course, our own national choice to make these rules, appropriate to our unique situation. But if there is cause for this, we will certainly achieve it in Europe. I'll join the zoonoses. Mr De Groot had a number of questions about this. In particular, he asked whether I now have the power to take preventive action with the new rules. Yes, because the Animal Law, like the old rules, provides a sufficient basis for preventive action. A disease may be designated on the basis of the Animal Law if that disease is contagious and cannot be prevented by normal means, if the disease can present a serious animal health risk and if, in the opinion of the Minister of the United States of America, the disease is related to zoonoses, so that minister in the lead............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The measures provided for in the law may then be taken in respect of animals liable to endanger the spread of the disease or zoonoses. I have just mentioned the example of mink. That is what we did at the time. Moreover, the fact that there is sufficient legal basis for taking precautionary measures to protect public health does not alter the fact that not every measure taken is justified and proportionate. You must therefore continue to support why a measure is necessary and proportionate at that time. There are also a number of legal demands on this. Mr De Groot knows better than I think that a temporary breeding ban was also introduced at the time of swine fever and that it was still disputed by the court whether that measure was proportionate at that time. So even if there is a legal basis, you still have to prove that the measure is sufficiently substantiated and proportionate at the time. Mr De Groot asks how I see the broader vision of livestock farming from the point of view of bio-safety. He also specifically mentioned the circular vision we presented earlier. Certain recycling activities may be related to the risk of introduction of animal diseases, such as outdoor grazing in a small-scale regional recycling initiative or the use of waste streams of feed. There are risks to that. We know that when residual streams are deployed. So that requires us to look very closely at that before we use it in that way. In such cases, therefore, the risks will have to be compensated by appropriate biosecurity measures. Those possibilities are often there, but you have to be alert. At that point, you just need to know what you're up against. We know that. So we're working on that when that happens. Mr De Groot also asks whether there is a protocol that applies not only to dead animals but also to live animals that are found sick. The NVWA indeed has an instruction for cleaning up the dead birds, which can be used by professionals who come into contact with dead wild birds. But this can also be used for dealing with sick, living, wild birds. In addition, Stichting DierenLot and the Stichting Vogelklas Karel Scot, together with the Erasmus Medical Centre, have made an instruction for the staff of the animal enclosures who come into contact with these sick birds. Local authorities and landowners are now responsible for policies regarding the sick, living, wild birds. We are, of course, prepared to think further about this. In the event that a zoonotic avian flu virus would circulate among wild birds, there is a role for the government. RIVM estimates the risk of the zoonotic transmission of avian influenza viruses that are now circulating low. So at that point, we do have a role to play. It is not active now, because RIVM estimates the risk of zoonotic transmission in the avian flu low. Dead wild birds can be reported to the NVWA if they are more than three types of risk. Otherwise they can be reported to the Dutch Wildlife Health Centre. The protocol for the dead birds can therefore also be used for the still living, but still sick, wild birds. Mr Boswijk says that I would keep the roadmaps under review. He also asks if I already know what might be changed. On the main lines, animal disease control policy remains the same. However, we are going to process some changes in the roadmaps. Bluetongue, for example, is no longer subject to control. It has become a disease for which Member States can choose free status, as for Aujeszky's disease in pigs. For low pathogenic avian influenza it is new that it is no longer mandatory to dispose of the animals from an infected holding. It is also possible to allow the animals to experience the infection. I want to make use of this in the long term. In doing so, I will make a distinction between infections in areas with many and few poultry holdings. This still depends on the ongoing review of the international OIE code for avian influenza. Until then, I will continue with the current policy. So I'm just waiting for some information I'm getting on that. In the case of HPAI, the highly pathogenic avian influenza, it is new that a restricted zone should also be established in the case of small-scale keepers. I would prefer that, as in the old rules, there is more room for Member States to consider on a case-by-case basis whether the establishment of a restricted zone of measures is necessary. In my view, this is not always necessary, because these holders do not pose a risk of spreading. However, that measure is included in the delegated Regulation under the Animal Health Regulation. I am still going to consult with the European Commission to see if any adjustment is possible on this point. These are a few examples of changes. It's more about nuances than really big interventions. The roadmaps will be adapted to the new rules in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u74	Thanks for the answer. It may be a silly question, but the schematics have been kept out of my mind for the last time in 2013. Is that gonna happen every year? Or biannually? That is quite a long period. It's developing fast. I understand that there is a need from society to get a little tighter on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u75	We have concrete roadmaps on how to deal with bird flu. Of the cases we do, every time there's been an outbreak, we're looking into whether we have enough options to respond to what's best. I know, for example, that the roadmaps under my ministry have been adapted to that point because we had new insights on how to deal with certain situations better. When there has been an animal disease, we evaluate it and see what it means for the schematics. The specific question was what is changing as a result of this regulation. The biggest one is in bluetongue, but especially in bird flu. We want to be able to do a little more tailor-made than what the regulation is currently giving us room for. But I am still talking about this in Europe. Mr Boswijk had a more general question about what he had read in the written round, namely that nothing really changes in Dutch practice. A number of changes can be incorporated into the Dutch practice, for example if Member States are obliged, as the Netherlands has been doing for years with the basic monitoring, to monitor the animal health situation, with the aim of identifying known and new animal diseases. We all have to do that, and we actually do that already with the basic monitoring. The list of European designated diseases has been partially adapted. Certain diseases, such as swine vesicle disease, are no longer on the list, while BVD and Q fever, for example, have been added again. Some diseases have fallen into a different category. For some animals there are new registration requirements, for example with regard to horses. That was also mentioned in the written reply. The obligation to clean and disinfect the means of transport of animals after unloading is now mandatory, with a few exceptions, for the transport of all animal species. The requirements for movement of certain categories of animals within the EU have been partially adapted. They are some adjustments, but they are not very fundamental, major changes to everything that was already in force in the regulation. Mr Graus specifically asked about the role of rats in the spread of the virus. He specifically asked about a Rodentorium with Mr Weijman and would I like to pick this up? The social problems that can be caused by rodents, not only with regard to barn fires, but also with regard to human and animal health, for example, are acute. That is what we are paying attention to. Together with the Ministry of IenW, the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, I am working on a rodent policy. In the joint letter from those ministries, i.e. from LNV, IenW, VWS and BZK, last October, we communicated our line most recently. The ministries are now working on this further. We also do this with relevant field parties such as LTO and the GGD, but also pest managers and research institutes. I think that we are already taking a lot of steps and that a separate rodentorium does not add a lot of extra's in itself. But that doesn't mean we don't have the problem sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u76	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. The point is that rats are super-, super-intelligent animals. They're evolution champions. They used to ride the ships, adapt to everything and always outsmart us. I want some kind of prevention to be the best biocidal product. I don't want those animals to be let in first and then killed. I also want to include the barn fires. The Minister is now quoting viruses and the health of humans and animals, but rats are also involved in gnaw fires; so I call that not barn fires but gnaw fires. That's because it makes these little animals very attractive to enter. We've had it here with mice in the Chamber. We leave food and treats everywhere and then we let them come in massively. Then we're gonna kill them all. I am very opposed to that. I want prevention as the best biocidal product. That's why we really need a rodentorium. Dr. Weijman really is an old man in the business. I mean, that's really venerable. This man's been an expert on plague and plague for decades. He has a lot of respect for such animals, he kind of loves them, but he's not involved in anything. I don't understand why someone like that is home now, retired. He needs to be involved, also because he wants to do it from his heart. He's trying to stop us from killing those animals. He's trying to prevent the development of barn fires.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u77	Let me make one thing right. Maybe I haven't been clear enough, but barn fires are also involved in this. It is certainly not just about the viruses and the plagues, but also really about the barn fires. As has been said, we are also making real use of the expertise that exists in this area. I do not know Mr Weijman, so I cannot judge him either, but I immediately believe that he is very expert. But there are also other people in the Netherlands who are experts. We really involve them in the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u78	This is very essential, because it's terrible when you see how many thousands of animals go to hell every time because of the barn fires, and also the human suffering behind it. Dr. Weijman has been advising me as a Member of Parliament for a decade. I do not understand why the best man is not consulted when he is so expert on the matter. Many leaders before this minister have promised, but he is never approached. I just don't understand that. He's really an authority in this area, and I don't understand why we don't use it. We have so many good people in our country getting passed. Through your PA service for the people at home: through your personal assistant I will make sure that the number and contact details of that man arrive at you. I think there are several parties... Mr. Wassenberg knows Dr. Weijman as well. We all have a lot of respect for that man. Again, he really isn't from the PVV. That's what I always have to say. Otherwise, it might have something to do with that. He's more from that corner...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u79	Oh, that corner!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u80	That corner over there, across the street!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u81	I just want to be very specific. I don't have it all sharp. Mr Weijman may have been consulted. I'll check it out. It is not for me to say that either one of them should or should not be allowed to think along. On the contrary. I'm just saying more generally that we have a broader group of experts. Allow me to check whether he has actually been consulted. Maybe that's the case and I just don't know that. I've come to the vaccinations. Several parties have asked questions about it. I understand that very well. I think we have all seen the impressive documentary De Boer Republic about the time of the FMD crisis and about the sadness that is still there. The documentary shows how much impact an animal disease has. I would like to add my voice to what Mr Boswijk said: animal farmers are really affected when their animals are being harmed, there are diseases or whatever. Let's take that into consideration, please. It is always about people, families, who stand up for the day and are busy with their business, who do so with a lot of love and passion, and who are affected by it. I would also like to stress that once again. The question is, what did I do? D66, CDA, VVD, actually Kamerbreed was asked what I did to make sure that the marketing of vaccinated products is really possible. We need to avoid the possibility of this happening in the future, but we need to ensure that companies are left with products that they can't deal with very much, with all the consequences of that. In case of infection with classical swine fever or foot-and-mouth disease, the aim is to combat it with, among other things, vaccination for life, as we call it. It turns out for years that we wouldn't have sick animals if we didn't have to. Vaccination makes that possible. Let me say it again: there is nothing wrong with products from healthy vaccinated animals. The aim is that these can simply be dropped off without any depreciation. I can see that this is not always the case. That's actually an irrational reaction from the market. I do not want to say that I want to leave the issue to the market. I shall come back to that in a moment, but we are vaccinating on many more things and we do not see this reaction in the marketing of products. But here, in these situations, it is often. And it's not necessary. I'm just gonna keep emphasising it. They're just good products. And yes, there is also a responsibility for the market. I'll be right back. There is also a responsibility for the market and for the sector parties to see how to make it clear that there is nothing wrong with that. But I also see that it does not naturally lead to a different reaction to that market. I have already agreed with my German colleague to look into this together. Germany is a large market in this respect. I'll talk to her about this soon. I would like to take this subject up with the Chamber, which has actually put me a little on track at a North-West European conference which we are going to organise this autumn. That conference is about making animal production more sustainable. That seems to me to be a broader platform to start talking about this. I would like to do that with sectors involved, because I think it really is a joint responsibility. I can't break open or influence the market on my own. I think there is a clear signal when a number of Member States say together: yes, this is just right. This will also remove a possible fear of vaccination and prevent a possible outbreak of animal diseases. That's what we're all about in the end. I am already going to discuss this issue with my German colleague, but I will also raise it more broadly at that North-West European conference. I really want to take that up with the sectors themselves, because we all need each other here to make sure that we get a little bit of power organized. Mr De Groot specifically asks how I look at preventive vaccination. Contrary to the picture that sometimes exists, it is possible for most infectious diseases in animals to also vaccinate preventively. For example, poultry in the Netherlands have been vaccinated preventively against Newcastle disease and goats and sheep against Q fever for years. The previous vaccination ban applied to a limited specific group of animal diseases subject to control. Partly because of the efforts of the Netherlands, this hard ban has been adapted years ago to the possibility of using that emergency vaccination in the event of outbreaks. The new Animal Health Regulation is based on the principle that vaccination can be used to combat diseases. However, depending on the disease, there are a number of specific conditions that must be met in order to apply that vaccination. Vaccination against diseases which do not occur in the Union, e.g. foot-and-mouth disease and classical swine fever, may be used to contain an outbreak. Member States can use vaccines to become free of diseases that are very common, such as IBR in cattle. This is still a regular disease in a number of Member States. Then vaccination can also be used. The method of vaccination therefore depends on the disease, the availability of vaccines and the veterinary situation, but is therefore possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u82	The question was about preventive vaccination and the answer is about vaccination as a means of combating it. I got that right. Can the Minister still reflect on preventive vaccination, for example against FMD? A statistician, Dijkhuizen, has once calculated that it occurs once every ten years. We can prevent the suffering suffered by FMD by simply using a marker vaccine, in which you can distinguish a vaccine from antibodies, regularly again. In the case of avian flu, it is possible to come out of this situation again with a marker vaccine in which the sector has to lock up twice a year as a result of bird migration. So I would like to ask the question again: how does the Minister look at preventive vaccination and is she prepared to go on the road to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u83	I have just explained the difference between diseases occurring in the Union that you are allowed to vaccinate preventively on and the space that this animal health regulation leaves for emergency vaccination. But this is specifically about diseases that are not currently present in the Union. It doesn't happen. It may also provoke a lot of discussion to start vaccination preventively for that. This is the framework of the animal health regulation that we are dealing with now. I just want to fill in on that. I hope that emergency vaccination will never be necessary, because that would mean that we actually have those animal diseases. But where they do occur in the Union, preventive vaccination can also be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u84	But FMD is still not a theoretical disease. Europe may now be free of this, but it cannot be said that it does not occur. Think of the swine fever, which is now also a bit on the way from the Netherlands. You can vaccinate against that. Think of the avian flu, which is currently endemic to wild animals. You can vaccinate against that. How's the Minister gonna do that? Is the Minister prepared to examine to what extent it could be part of the Dutch animal health policy, where the trade aspects are of course also very important, that you should also regulate this internationally? How does the Minister view this? It is right to prevent us from experiencing another tragedy like 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u85	Sure. Let me be very clear: there is no vaccination for African swine fever. If there had been, we would have saved a lot of trouble. Classical swine fever is not present in the Union. If they occur, you can use emergency vaccination. If only we as a Member State are going to vaccinate preventively, then I will return to the discussion that Mr Boswijk has just started, namely that you will then find yourself in a situation where products will no longer be taken. That's a big risk, too. So I think it is right that this animal health regulation should provide the framework for what can and cannot be done within the Union, for what we have agreed on. Preventive vaccination can be effective. But vaccinate against diseases that are not present in Europe today, in order to prevent it from ever happening, can have very big consequences on the other hand. No one was helped with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u86	The avian flu is currently present in the Netherlands. So I do not understand the Minister's answer, I really do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u87	As far as the avian flu is concerned, it can't be vaccinated, but I need to take a look at that for a second. Now I'm sitting on all kinds of parts of the vaccinations of different diseases. Let me come back to that in the second term, because that is a very specific question, to which I would like to give a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u88	I can hear it. I hear the Minister is prepared to discuss preventive vaccination in the discussions on sustainable animal products, in order to ensure that we can ultimately sell animal products. But isn't it true that we have an even more sustainable solution, which is to keep much less animals, and that we are not going to export anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u89	I know the views of the Animal Party on this point. I shall now come to the amendments and to the questions she has put on this point. I note that there is still demand for agricultural products, including animal products. I understand that Mrs. Vestering is different from many other people. I think that freedom of choice should be there as well. Think about whether or not to eat meat and stuff like that. At a time when this is still legitimate, I believe that we have a responsibility to shape the livestock farms in the best possible way. That doesn't mean you can't export.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u90	I didn't ask so much about the Animal Party's position, because I know that very well. I asked what the Minister thinks is the most sustainable choice. When we talk about sustainable animal products, what is the most sustainable? Are we going to vaccinate animals to eventually export them massively? I'm talking about keeping animals massive for minimal costs. Or is keeping fewer animals the most sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u91	We are now dragging a lot of discussions into this bill. Again, I understand that from the perspective of the Party for Animals. I believe that people themselves have a choice whether or not they want to eat animals, meat. I also believe that if we produce that meat here, we should do so in the best possible way and the rules should be laid down, including in this health regulation. Then it's possible that you're exporting animals. I know that the amount and scale of this is the subject of public debate and also of discussions here in the Chamber. There is no doubt that Mrs Vestering will be speaking about this. But I believe that this legislative proposal provides a good framework under which the conditions are created to shape these matters properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u92	I can repeat my question one more time, but I will probably get our own point of view back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u93	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u94	But I would like to say that I am sorry that I simply do not get an answer from the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u95	Yeah, but that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u96	I'd like to finish. I regret that I do not receive an answer from the Minister to my question as to what is the most sustainable choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u97	I think I've tried three times to give the answer. I just think that Mrs Vestering does not agree with that answer, but that is something else. I say that I think people have the freedom to eat meat and animal products. That's what animals are for. It is our responsibility to do so as best we can. This law provides the framework for this. Mr Van Campen asks how vaccination is going in other countries. How do they look at that? In general, this legislative proposal, or indeed this regulation, provides the framework within which that happens. The other Member States also work within these frameworks, as it were. I do not have exactly how it is handled in other Member States. I can see that there is still a difference in how to deal with certain vaccinations in animal products; the discussion we have just had. So that is also the issue in Europe. I think we need to break the taboo there, to show that these animal products are fine, that there is nothing wrong with them and that you can just consume them normally. So that is also what I am about to pick up, in any case with my German colleague, but also in conjunction with that North-West European conference. That was the point of the vaccinations. Then I get to the point of the positive list. Mr De Groot asked about the implementation of the motion. As Mr De Groot knows, we are still working on the positive list for mammals. I'd like to finish it first. That is a very big job and we have also been flagged back by the judge a number of times, because we had not done it in a good way before. So that's why we had to put that into practice in this way. The scientific assessment of all those mammals is a lot of work. Only then will I make a choice for the continuation of the development of other positive lists. So it's really going in that order. Mrs Vestering specifically asks about the OVV's report on the barn fires. I will come to the amendments in a moment, but she still had the question as to whether there was indeed a need for additional rules. The report by the OVV shows that a better and firmer approach to barn fires is needed, with also greater responsibility for and direction by the government. I would like to underline those conclusions and recommendations made by the OVV and I am already in the process of shaping the recommendations. There are time frames in which I have to do that: within six months of the completion of the OVV report. So we are already working hard on it, but I still need time to shape it. We will work with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to see how the legislation can be adapted. So it is not true that there is a taboo on rules; we just want to look carefully at what is needed to limit those barn fires. Because I think the O.V.V. has shown that more really needs to be done there. I'll take that message. Mr De Groot asks what is going on with the clearance capacity. The NVWA has ensured, by means of contracts with private companies, sufficient clearance capacity for the control of animal diseases in livestock farming. As vaccination is also used for a number of disease diseases subject to control, such as classical swine fever and foot-and-mouth disease, less fattening capacity will be needed if it is to be combated. Vaccined animals will not be disposed of. There is therefore as much room for manoeuvre as possible. This is not all necessarily available at NVWA, but the NVWA does have contracts with companies that can provide for that again when this is needed. In this way, if it is necessary to do so, we can quickly organise people who can help. Mr De Groot also specifically asked about the number of goats. He says: the number of goats has tripled; how does the Minister see that from the precautionary principle formulated at EU level? The precautionary principle means that action can be taken if there are indications of a risk to public health and if this is proportionate. I have just given an example of this; that really needs to be well substantiated. The permit for the new establishment or extension is invested in the provinces. They'll issue the permits. A number of provinces have introduced a moratorium following the results of the VGO investigation. You can also see that, following the establishment of the moratorium, the growth that was in it was flattened. The Cabinet has also indicated that it supports and understands that these provinces have invoked this measure, because the VGO investigations are still ongoing. That VGO study also needs to be completed in order to really show whether and, if so, what is the direct link between goat farming and, for example, lung disease. If you still want to take care of business there, you want to be able to do it properly and in proportion. Just to do that, I'm gonna need those data. Mr De Groot also asked about the use of colistin, which increased by 50%. He asks if I share the concern that this is actually meant for people. Colistine is indeed a last resort, as we call it. That is why I have also called on the pig sector and the poultry sector to reduce the use of colistin in the short term and to take measures to keep it low. Our people have had a lot of discussions about this with the sectors in recent years. As a result, the poultry sector has launched a four-step plan indicating how this is to be reduced. At the initiative of the pig sector and our ministry, research has also been launched into the use of colistin and the potential for zero use. I expect that this research will then provide an opportunity for action, so that we can also reduce colistin use in the pig sector to a real last resort, and not before that. Then I come to the agricultural practice test, the test for the new laws and regulations that Mr Boswijk is advocating. How do I look at that idea? For the agro-domain, the choice has now been made to complete an SME test through regular regular consultation and information of sector stakeholders. So when we legislate, we also have a test of the administrative burden involved. This means that we are already looking specifically at what this means for the business community and very specifically for the agri-domain sector. This does not apply to European laws and regulations, because we simply have to follow what is included in the regulations. But when, for example, national legislation comes up again, we do so, specifically for that particular piece of legislation. I therefore believe that we are already looking at what legislation means for the burden on business. In addition, we have, of course, regular consultations with sector organisations in which we discuss these matters with each other. Mr De Groot specifically asks how I look at antibiotic use in calf farming. The Foundation for Veterinary Medicinal Products indicates that the meat calf farming sector has reduced antibiotic use by 51% since 2009. Progress is being made, but improvements are being made in conjunction with dairy farming. I agree with that, but I also see that the level of antibiotic use is still high. The resistance levels require continued attention and therefore further reduction of this. For example, a business-oriented approach such as coaching has also been explored. This is a permanent point of attention. Of course, it also has to do with another discussion; I am threatening to open a lot of discussions here again, for example with the transport of young animals that are placed together in assembly stations, often at European level. This is where the risks of disease naturally increase, and that is what antibiotic use is about. That is a much more fundamental discussion, including on the long-distance transport of young animals. You know my commitment to that in Europe. We are very much in favour of limiting them precisely, because we also see that this certainly involves animal welfare issues for young animals, but also, for example, a discussion on antibiotic use. Mr. Chairman. I think I have had the questions of all the Members. Then I come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u98	Before you do that, Mr Boswijk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u99	Two questions in the meantime, first about the practical test. What is the difference, according to the Minister, between the test we propose and the SME test we know with SMEs? A lot of legislation on agriculture is, of course, European. That is why, as far as the CDA is concerned, it seems very important that we take that test, because almost all the legislation we get here comes from Brussels. That's point one. Since you said you answered all the questions, I was still curious about the scenarios you have in mind about whether or not to vaccinate. What if people don't want to participate? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u100	The first question. I don't know very well... Mr Boswijk has described what his proposal is for what I would like to call the agro-test. There I did not get the difference so much as to what we are already doing when it comes to national legislation and so we also reflect the burden, the administrative burden, the legal burden and also the financial burden of a legislative proposal. He specifically asks for this also to be done for Brussels laws and regulations or actually regulations. It could be. The only thing is that it gives rise to the suggestion that there is still a choice whether or not you go along with it. Of course, that is not the case. We simply have to relate to European regulations and have to translate them into national laws and regulations. At most you would get an insight into that, but that doesn't mean that we still have a choice as to whether or not we want something. That really only applies to the national rules that we put on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u101	Clear. I understand, of course, that, after such a test, we cannot say: we are not going to do it. I see it more as a kind of fine tune and as an input that you can take back to Brussels: boys, this is from our practice test. With a practical test, I mean not only the legal or financial consequences, but also: how does this work out in practice? I understand that you do not visit 60,000 farmers, but the SME test really looks at some of the practical situations: what does this mean for such a farmyard? I think there is a need for this, especially in agriculture, where the practice is, of course, very unbearable. Would the Minister be open if we now tabled a motion requesting that we at least examine whether it is an option and if it is an option, see how we can introduce it? I know that there is a need from the market and that it can work well, as the SME test has shown. I understand we're not gonna decide here: it's not gonna work for us, so we're not gonna do it anymore. I understand it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u102	I propose that Mr Boswijk table his motion so that I can judge it properly. So that's not even a no. I need to see what he means. Because also in this animal health regulation... I already mentioned the example of, for example, the I&R Horses. We have had quite a lot of discussions about this, including with the horse industry. You don't do that in a formal test or something like that, but of course you do have the conversations with the sectors about it, because hey, it's something new, it has impact, how exactly is it going to be designed, what exactly does it mean? So it is precisely in those pathways that we have very often had discussions with the sectors to get a little sense of whether it is workable, feasible and manageable, and how it works out at the practical level. So I think we are doing a lot of things about that. But if Mr Boswijk shows his motion, we are seriously looking at what is meant by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u103	I think it is a very innovative proposal from Mr Boswijk. I myself took care of that SME test once, through an approved motion. It was indeed about affordability, applicability, workability, but also about feasibility, which was also for farmers, gardeners and fishermen. But of course my colleague has a point, because I did mean it at the time for national legislation and regulations. Since LNV is directed to a large extent, unfortunately, by Brussels, he has a good point. So actually, that agrotest, as he calls it, can have real added value. I would therefore like to give a positive vote to the Chamber, because this is a point that I did not consider at the time, in the case of the SME test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u104	I say to Mr De Groot and Mr Van Campen, who are talking, that they have just missed a free voting opinion from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u105	You can look it back through Debate Missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u106	You can indeed look it back through Debate Missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u107	But that's what I wanted to say. I really want to support this, because this is a very good and sensitive point. I think it will make Mrs van der Plas happy in the back of the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u108	Mrs van der Plas is now almost invited to say something about this, but that will become apparent later, how she thinks about it. I can't remember where we were.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u109	What an enormous collegiality in this committee!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u110	Yeah, it's reach out and touch here on the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u111	I'm facing the motion and I'm gonna take a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u112	I have another question about the scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u113	Repeat that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u114	Then I'm gonna have to go back to digging. That was about which scenarios...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u115	Oh, yeah, if one doesn't want to vaccinate voluntarily. In that scenario, therefore, a company does not want to vaccinate and is willing to run the risk of an animal disease. I'm just gonna take it out of my head for a second. Even at the time an animal disease breaks out on your farm, you normally have the Animal Health Fund that pays for a slaughter. I can imagine, if a company says that it does not want to vaccinate on its own and gets that disease, while the Animal Health Fund is being filled by all the companies in a sector, then there is going to be a discussion whether or not you have to make up for it. So that would be my first hunch, but I don't have a complete picture of all the scenarios around whether or not to vaccinate voluntarily. At the moment when it is agreed with the sectors that we are going to do so, I can imagine that the question arises as to how you deal with companies that do not want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u116	This was exactly what I was afraid of. Well, scared. That sounds a little heavy. But I think it is a good thing that we are looking at these scenarios in advance, because, of course, it is to be expected, especially since it is a European market and our impact as a government is limited, that there are farmers who are not participating. That's a pretty obvious scenario. I think it's a good thing we're already prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u117	But we are talking about the difference between preventive vaccination and emergency vaccination. I think that's exactly the discussion I just had with Mr. De Groot. Preventive vaccination may occur in a number of diseases. I mentioned a number of examples; very specific FMD, because I think this was one of the things about it. That's what you do when a disease is back on the European continent. So then you have a different discussion than if you are going to vaccinate now because it could possibly be on the continent again. That was just the little debate I had with Mr De Groot on the weighting of the consequences of vaccination against, for example, its economic impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u118	Supplementary. In my opinion, voluntary vaccination should always be possible and perhaps without consequences. If the people with corona, covid, decide not to be vaccinated and get sick, then they just get help. Then society simply pays for it. I'm just looking for something; voluntary vaccination should always be possible, shouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u119	This is another situation, namely that someone, even though we have a vaccination programme for an animal disease that is in the country, decides not to participate in it, with the risk of the animal disease coming on the farm and the rest of the companies that have all carried out vaccination have to pay for the disposal of that farm. This is therefore not a fee for vaccination. It's just the other way, the opposite: if you decide not to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u120	However, I have a problem with that, but I will give it to you for a moment. It's a bit of a rub, I get that, but I actually think that volunteering should always stay in it. People may have specific reasons not to want their animals vaccinated, although I also understand that this is not very convenient for animal health status. But we want to keep that voluntary nature in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u121	I know that there have been discussions about this and that we have looked into other measures to reduce this health risk in a different way. So it's not like we're gonna stand right there with the knife on the throat and say, you have to vaccinate! For there may indeed be people who, for their miraculous reasons, object to it. But that does not relieve a company of the obligation to take additional measures to ensure that such an animal disease does not enter the farm or to do a great deal to prevent it. At the moment it does occur, the rest will pay for it. That's the responsibility you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u122	Obviously, but it's still tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u123	I get that. There have been situations in which these issues have played out. At that time we tried to think about how to achieve the highest security status, because you can ask someone to prevent other companies from getting into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u124	The amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u125	Yes, I come to the amendments. Let me get my folder. Let's see if I've got them in the right order. Firstly, there is Mr Wassenberg's amendment on the killing of animals by breeders. He says it's only for dogs, cats and geese now. He also asked me whether I agree that it is horrific when killing methods he described are being used. I can be quite clear about that: that's horrible, yes. I'm not gonna argue about that. But this amendment calls for this also to be introduced for many other categories of animals, not for farm animals but for the... uh... hobby-like animals. I do not know the exact word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u126	The pets!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u127	The pets. Thank you, Mr. Graus. You saved me again. These categories of animals were chosen for legal treatment at the time because dogs and cats were the most kept. In this way, it was most likely to occur. With geese it had to do specifically with some kind of.. well, forgive me.. chanceless game in which your geese suffered a lot. Mr Wassenberg is actually giving a very broad provision, including with regard to other animals. I know it is unusual, but I want to see if I can make a proposal on this amendment, because I cannot fully see what this amendment means for the enforcement and feasibility of services. I do, however, agree with the debate we have had here on the need for legislation to be enforceable and enforceable. So I attach a test of this amendment from the point of view of enforcement. I have already said that on 11 May we will come up with an amendment to the law, because a number of technical matters still need to be settled. I want to see if I can take that test in the meantime, see what this amendment would mean, so that I can take it into account in the opinion and possibly take it into account in the second legislative amendment. Mr Wassenberg may, of course, submit it at any time, but only then will I be able to draw up my opinion on the basis of the facts. I have not been able to do that in the short time I saw the amendment, and I would like to know what our inspections say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u128	First, I'd like to finish the minister's introduction. That popular spectacle was the gossip. That was horrible and that took place in my own congregation, Sittard-Geleen. Fortunately, this has come to an end, thanks, among other things, to the ban on the killing of geese. I cannot, of course, keep an amendment, but I can withdraw it, with the promise that I will take it in mid-May... You said May 11th, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u129	I understand the Court's contribution to the amendment of the law was made on 11 May. I promise that we will really see if we have any more information on this, so that I can include it in the reaction to the Chamber's input on this point. Then you can still consider whether you would like to reopen the amendment so that this amendment can still be tabled. It's a bit of a separate route, but I really want to take a look at the persistence of this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u130	I get that. I shall now withdraw the amendment, as it is called. I'm not gonna keep it, but I'm gonna move it in and I'm gonna be able to re-table it in a couple of weeks, maybe in a slightly different form.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u131	The Wassenberg amendment (Doc. 8) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u132	Knowing it's probably gonna be filed again...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u133	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u134	... but with a more substantiated assessment on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u135	Then we go to the Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u136	That is Mrs Vestering's amendment on keeping animals in a particular system or housing. That is a very open passage. I'm not sure what a "definite system or housing" is. That makes the amendment virtually impossible to implement. What we are doing is much more concrete: laying down certain rules, laying down detailed rules or even banning certain systems. In doing so, you can indicate very precisely what issue it affects. The law already offers room for that. This amendment is very general, leads to a lot of discussion and is not practicable, so I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u137	The amendment in part No. 9 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u138	Then there is the amendment to item No. 10. This is about a ban on keeping animals in cages. This is also a debate we are having at European level. A citizens' initiative has been tabled: End the Cage Age. The European Commission will come forward with a response to that citizens' initiative at the end of June. EFSA is already working on an update of scientific opinions on this subject, for example on the housing of laying hens, pigs and calves. I do not want to anticipate this, so I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u139	The amendment in part No. 10 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u140	For the amendment to item No. I just need a few more words. The amendment lays down a basis for rules on "the breeding of and the use for breeding of animals belonging to species or categories of animals designated by that scheme which relate, inter alia, to a total or partial ban on the breeding or use of animals for breeding, to the extent that, without such a ban, the health or welfare of the animal is seriously affected by exceptional circumstances." These "exceptional circumstances" are crucial. I do not wish to allow this article to be used to stop animal breeding in the first place. In exceptional circumstances, these are things that never actually occur, but which then occur and on which you would have to act. The explanatory memorandum gives examples of this which you can contest or which are exceptional situations. Heat isn't exactly an exceptional situation. Moreover, at the time that heat occurs, a breeding ban also does not make much sense. Because I can't predict nine months in advance how hot it's going to be in a particular summer, when you would have to set up a breeding ban at that point in time in order not to go into it later. So I see in itself grounds for a provision whereby, in exceptional circumstances, other than an animal disease, you could actually use a breeding ban. Because in the case of an animal disease, it is already regulated by the law. Only, on the basis of the explanatory statement, I cannot say that there are exceptional circumstances or that they are matters in which a breeding ban at that time would be helpful. At that time in the summer I really should have foreseen months in advance to be able to take action there, because that does not make much sense at the moment. So that's where my search is a little bit. With this explanatory statement, I cannot actually judge the amendment, but I understand that the Chamber is looking for a title that should allow you to regulate it at the moment when there would be truly exceptional circumstances. The consideration I give back to the Animal Party is whether it intends to make that explanation very sec and clean, with the term "exceptional circumstances', as stated here, simply not an exceptional circumstance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u141	For my understanding, the amendment to item No. 11 will therefore be dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u142	If the amendment is as it is, I must advise against it, but I see the option that you should be able to have such a breeding ban for some circumstances. But that must be done in truly exceptional situations and not in the situations that are being discussed here. Because those are not exceptional situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u143	Mrs van der Plas, I shall first give the floor to Mrs Vestering because she is the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If the Minister sees options, we will certainly see them, and I am absolutely prepared to amend them. Then I am prepared to make clear what these exceptional situations are and to keep them very clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u145	So I would leave that exceptional situation open, because exceptional situations are exceptional, and so you cannot foresee them all in advance. But should it indeed be necessary to say on the basis of animal health considerations that... 'Cause I do have that article. At the moment when it really affects animal health or public health, you can proceed with such a breeding ban. I have just mentioned the example of classical swine fever. We used that article and the issue of proportionality was also raised. So it will always be a provision that you have to insanely well underpin, because otherwise you will not get away with it either. That's why it's exceptional. It just can't be something that happens every year or whatever. So if in that explanatory statement the exceptional is named as such, without you giving it any thought in advance, I cannot give the amendment judgment Chamber. But a general provision in very exceptional circumstances could be an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u146	If I listen to you like that, I think it would be good... The amendment in this form is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u147	With this explanation, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u148	And if you want to change it along the lines suggested by the Minister, you have to table a new amendment and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u149	If that's the procedure, then that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u150	That's exactly how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u151	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u152	Okay. So this amendment is not recommended in this way. Then Mrs. Van der Plas. I'm sorry for the time you had to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u153	Doesn't matter, 'cause I'm here anyway. I still have the question for the Minister as to what such an exceptional situation is. Is that determined at the time of this exceptional situation or is there already a definition of an exceptional situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u154	No, there's no definition of that. But that does not mean that it is therefore an open provision. Because as a legislator, you need to be able to prove that a situation is exceptional. We now have a provision in the law which would make it possible to impose a breeding ban at the time when it would be necessary for me to do so in the context of the animal health programme. Because of animal health, it was then used in classical swine fever, at which time it was disputed whether it was proportionate. So it has to be of an outside category, let me put it this way, before you can call it in and hold it in court. But you may not have such an option and yet need something outside of public health and animal health. Then such a hook in the law could be an option. But once again, it does not relieve the legislator of the duty to prove incredibly well why that would then be proportional at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u155	I understand that it must always be related to animal health status or to any danger to public health, so these are exceptional situations. In my opinion, "an exceptional situation" is a very stretchy concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u156	So it's not that stretchy with the judge. An exceptional situation must be a situation which has not occurred before, or which has occurred so little that you could not have foreseen it, and that is why you still have to deal with risks that are attached to it. So you have to be able to justify that incredibly well. In addition, it is not that you can use it simply because you do not agree with a particular animal category or whatever. I understand what Mrs van der Plas means, but that is not an exceptional situation; that is more of a policy concept and policy views are generally not exceptional situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u157	So it's always under judicial review?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u158	At least you have to make sure it stays with the judge. It is then, of course, up to the parties who touch it, to consider whether they want to go to court. But in order for it to stand by the judge, you must have a very good foundation. We know this from practice, which has also occurred here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u159	The amendment in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u160	Yes, then the amendment to item No. 12. That amendment concerns the ban on the transport of animals at sea. This is really EU legislation. I cannot deviate from this as a Member State, and I cannot therefore impose such an export ban. Prior to an export, the NVWA must also carry out certain controls. These are laid down in EU legislation. Only if these controls give rise to such checks can an export be refused. This is unrelated to the fact that I share the concerns about the risks of this type of transport and the animal welfare involved. I have already mentioned my commitment to long-distance transport. This commitment also applies to long-distance transports at sea. That is why, at EU level, I am also in favour of banning the long transport of animals to non-EU countries, with the exception of the United Kingdom, because there is EU equivalent legislation on animal welfare and animal transport. But I cannot therefore give this amendment a ruling Chamber. I have to discourage it, because it's just not my competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u161	The amendment in part No. 12 is not recommended. Then we go to the Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u162	Then we'll get to the report from the OVV. I have already said that I am seriously working to complete the recommendations contained in that report. In fact, therefore, I find this amendment premature. I have yet to comment on the OVV report and I am not actually given the opportunity to formulate that response. The Chamber is already filling out what needs to be done, when I have already said that I am looking at it very seriously. At the same time I also see what the OVV says, and so I am also really looking into how I can implement that. In fact, I do not think it is appropriate to table this amendment, because of its immeasurableness and also because I do not have the opportunity to respond to an OVV report, which simply stands for legal deadlines. The Chamber is already filling it in, not knowing what my reaction is. But in substance, it is something that I would, if necessary, pass on to. On that basis, therefore, I would give Chamber judgment, but allow me to say at least that I do not think it is fair of the Chamber to start filling out what it should be like if I still have to come up with a response to an OVV report. Anyway, we're gonna have two discussions running through each other. I would like to say: please let us also have the opportunity to simply look at serious recommendations from an OVV report. I see that this is not really a good way to do it, because the Chamber is already going to fill it out. However, having said that, I can give the substance of the amendment to the Chamber's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u163	Does Mrs Vestering still want to respond to that? There's a thumb going up, and I understand that, but frankly, I also understand what the Minister is saying. Anyway, that's not up to me. Now I have provoked you, Mrs Vestering, and that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u164	Look, I think it's especially important that we look at it together. This amendment allows the Minister to use an AMvB later in order to be able to lay down precisely those detailed rules. So we can talk about how we follow up on the report of the OVV. Now at least we have the hook to hang it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u165	Sure, but again, there are also legal deadlines to respond to an OVV report, which I can just stick to. If the Chamber knows exactly how to react, I would almost suggest that the Chamber should write the reaction. But that might be entrapment if I say so now, Mr. Chairman. You heard my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u166	Thank you for your first-term response. Then we'll go to the second term of office. And maybe we'll close this meeting nicely before curfew. First of all, Mrs Vestering has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u167	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank the Minister for the answer and also for the personal note, the musical note even. There has been a whisper: what instrument? I won't sing the songs I'm talking about. It was a horn. I don't play it anymore. I don't have time for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u168	Yeah, I was just asking what instrument it was. That's a cliffhanger from this whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u169	But this is all going from my time, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u170	No, no, no. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u171	Oh, thank God. All right, we have talked extensively today about animal health and new European animal health rules. The new animal health rules also recognise what we emphasised in the first period: that animal health and animal welfare are inextricably linked. It is good to see that most colleagues share our concerns about the welfare of animals in the Dutch livestock sector and about the high risks of animal diseases to humans. We are therefore pleased that some of our amendments have received a Chamber's opinion, or perhaps will come back in May. I have tabled a number of amendments. One of these is the amendment to item No. 9, I've got it right here. That's about a reasonable purpose of keeping animals and allowing them to be injured or hurt. The Animal Party considers that the keeping of animals in a particular system or in a particular accommodation is in any case not included in a reasonable purpose. So you have to think about the situation that there is a totally inappropriate system in which animals are kept and that you do not change the system, but that you are going to physically adjust the animal. That's something the Party for Animals really wants to get rid of. For example, you have to think of dehorning calves or cutting off the toes in cocks. We want to get rid of that. Rather, we see that the systems are being modified, so that those kind of physical interventions are not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u172	I have a question about your amendment. Are you saying that these interventions should stop, or is your amendment intended to prevent the housing system in which the animals are kept from suffering? I still find it a little difficult to understand. What is it now? Is it about preventing interventions or the housing system itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u173	It's connected. At the time when you keep animals in a system that is so unsuitable that you have to physically adapt the animal to it, so that means the dehorning of calves or the breeding of piglets' tails, then we say that it is not possible to keep these animals in it. That means you have to look for another system, instead of looking for a physical adaptation to the animal. So we're gonna change the system and not the animal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u174	Okay. So your definition of suffering in this case is that the animal really needs to be physically adjusted? Is that the definition of suffering?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u175	Yes, without medical necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u176	Then the housing system is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u177	Sure. We have talked about the amendment on the possibility of introducing a breeding ban. We would like to amend the amendment in its entirety. I don't know how that works technically. I think it's all going digital, so that's great. Then we'll just keep the explanatory statement to the last paragraph. The first two paragraphs will then lapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u178	Yes, so you are tabling an amended amendment to replace the one you have now tabled. Mrs. Van der Plas, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u179	I do have a question. What does Mrs Vestering mean by 'adjust', because that too is a stretchy concept. I think it is a good question from Mr De Groot. Was it the intervention? For you say: adapt so that the animal can show its natural behavior. But if it is in an amendment, the consequences can really be enormous, because that adjustment can then apply to all barn systems. What do you think is "adapt"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u180	As an example of this, I can give the breeding of pigtails. We now know that we should not burn down the tails of piglets with such a hot thread or simply cut off to prevent tail bites, because they will no longer have a tail. In fact, it is now so arranged in the law that you must have done everything first to prevent the biting off of the tails in the stable itself. For example, you can do this by giving the animals more space, but before that those tails are already cut off or burned down. That is something we say: we prefer not to see that happen. That is why we want to give the animals more space instead of physically adapting the animal to a system that is not suitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u181	What you're saying doesn't make any sense. Now it's done so that pigs, if you let them walk outside, don't bite their tails. But as you probably know, tail biting is a multifactorial problem. There are all kinds of circumstances that can lead to this. It also happens to pigs that have a lot of space. There are also organic pig farmers who really have to do with tail bites, but they leave the tails to it. Anyway, that's animal suffering too, because those tails are eaten. In your view it is true: the pigs are outside and that is natural, so they can bite each other's tails. Because then they're in their natural environment and so it's not animal suffering. And burning down tails, as you call it, but let's just call it tailcouping, then is... So I don't quite understand that. That's why I'm looking for exactly what you mean by "adapting the system" or "adapting the animal to the system."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u182	I get it, too, because the system itself is quite incomprehensible. We're literally gonna adapt animals. Sorry, coup is a beautiful word, but of course it's literally the burning down, with such a hot wire, of a pigtail's tail, or the cutting off. That's the case. Then what you have to do is stop the situation from happening where animals cannot express themselves because they are kept in such an inappropriate system. So that means you're not gonna change the animal, you're gonna change the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u183	Then I still don't understand. Let us take the example of organic or biologically dynamic pig farming, where pigs do indeed come out. By the way, not all pigs run loose in the meadow, but that aside. Then there's still tail bites. What are you gonna do? The amendment you have now tabled can have really far-reaching consequences. Then I would say: put in an amendment stating that we simply stop slaughtering animals, which means we are rid of everything. Then we are not done with everything either, because then meat comes from abroad. Anyway, I'm not the minister, but I'd say, dissuade the motion. This is so vague and leaves a lot of room for us to start laying down all kinds of rules that actually eliminates the entire livestock system and we only have heck cattle and konik horses, which, by the way, do not have a very pleasant life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u184	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u185	This is actually an excellent example of why we need to change the system of livestock farming in the Netherlands as it is today. I think it's a very good example, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u186	I think you know what I mean, because a lot of farmers go, if this amendment is adopted by the Chamber... Then the livestock business really turns upside down. And I understand that from your party, that's what you want, but you have to understand the consequences of this. And there's no fence around the Netherlands either. If it all stops here, it goes abroad and we have absolutely no idea what's going on there. People just keep eating meat. So let us at least see how the animals in this system can have the best possible life. But I don't think what you're proposing is feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u187	"What Mrs. Vestering proposes, President..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u188	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u189	I'm not a teacher, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u190	Ma'am, you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u191	This is still a good debate, but that's how it goes. What Mrs. Vestering said, you like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u192	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I said... Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u193	Mrs. Vestering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u194	I can repeat it once again and understand that you say that the consequences for farmers may be great. But in the treatment of the Animal Law we now look at the consequences for the animals. The consequences for the animals in the unsuitable systems in which they are kept are enormous. Calfs are dehorned. Toes are cut off from cocks. Piglet tails are burned down or cut off. Those consequences are enormous. That is why we have tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u195	Mrs. Van der Plas, I don't think you're gonna agree. This will be a repeat of arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u196	Mr President, I do not agree with the terminology used by Mrs Vestering. There's vets in there. Dehorning happens under anesthesia. There are even hornless cows being bred, but that is also, I think, curses in the church for the Party for Animals. Anyway, we won't go through with it. All I want is to give the rest of the Chamber something: do not think that this is a very nice motion and that we should do this because we all love animals. No, just think about the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u197	Yes, and it's an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u198	Yes, a very sweet amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u199	A very sweet amendment, yes. But I'm afraid you both have a different idea or a different interpretation of love. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u200	I was just talking about the adjustment for these exceptional circumstances. I may come back later on to the amendment to ban the transport of animals by sea to countries outside the European Union. I understand that amendments can also be modified later. I see more experienced MPs nodding. That's nice. We're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u201	I'm sure you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u202	As far as fire safety is concerned, I am very pleased with the great support in the signing. I heard what the Minister said about it. I have taken several initiatives to discuss this issue. Unfortunately, a plenary debate did not make it. A committee debate didn't make it either. The subject is now on the very long list of thirty-member debates, but I would have liked to have spoken to you in the short term on the substance of this issue. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u203	The Minister states from box K that she wants to respond, but first we do the second term on the side of the Chamber. Otherwise, we're gonna let go of all the rules, and that's not what we're supposed to do. I call Mr Tjeerd de Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. We have talked about whether avian flu is a disease that occurs in Europe. I thought so. It may then be appropriate to also vaccinate against avian influenza in addition to other vaccinations that chickens are already receiving. In this way we come out of the situation that these animals have to be hung year round due to the introduction of sometimes highly pathogenic variants by wild birds. That could be a solution. If you do this with business, you can also look at the trade aspects. Then it might be possible to extend our animal health tools with preventive vaccination. This could perhaps also apply to FMD, precisely because it is not present in Europe now. Wageningen University, Mr Dijkhuizen, has, however, once calculated that it can occur statistically once every ten years. We are now sure that the marketing of products from vaccinated animals is not guaranteed. If vaccination is now used as a control method, it may be easier to clean up, but it is clear because there is no marketing. So it's a delayed clearance, a delayed killing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u205	I have a question for Mr De Groot. Over the past 15 years, I have repeatedly asked whether we should not go to a completely different way of prevention, not in the form of vaccination, but with the use of pre- and probiotics and phytotherapeutics. I myself have had experience of this in veterinary pharmacy with very good results. We have also achieved very good results in double-blind tests. But it actually fell a little bit to death. I was a huge driver of that, but it all fell to death because of that powerful pharmaceutical industry. Would Mr De Groot not like to join me in putting some pressure on the Minister to do more research into oral forms of grafts, although it would no longer be grafting, through pre- and probiotics and phytotherapeutics? We used Resveratrol in animals 20 years ago. And now it's being used in high doses against covid. The wheel's already been invented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u206	I know what Mr Graus said, but I cannot judge it in substance. I'm thinking about yakult right away, but maybe that's not the right association.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u207	Mr. Graus, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u208	Yakult, those are lactic acid bacteria. None of that is a big deal. I am actually talking about soil-based organisms, which we worked with back then in animals, with good results. Let's not go into the depths about that. Here's what's important. You are still part of a coalition party, even though the cabinet is a missionary. We should be able to put some pressure on a ministry by saying, "Hey, why don't you get to work with that oral graft?" Again, you may not officially call it a vaccination, but let's do it for convenience, otherwise people won't understand it anymore. It has to be investigated whether it's all true what I'm saying? So there's got to be an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u209	I will simply direct your question to the Minister and then I will hear it, because I cannot judge it myself. On the preventive vaccination, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that marker vaccines distinguish vaccination from infection;]] [[considers that preventive vaccination can be a valuable part of the animal health toolbox;]] [[noting that trade aspects of vaccination can only be resolved internationally (EU, OIE);]] [[considers that industry should be involved in the debate on preventive vaccination, taking into account trade aspects;]] [[calls on the Government to work with the sector to promote preventive vaccination as part of the animal health toolbox, including its trade aspects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Tjeerd de Groot and Mr Van Campen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35398-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u210	I am using the remaining time to challenge the Minister on the issue of pig farming and the use of antibiotics. It is a good thing that we talk to the sector every time there are problems, but antibiotic resistance is a real problem, also according to the World Health Organisation. With regard to D66, there might also be a somewhat less non-binding approach. It just doesn't have to be used. It's as simple as that. It is intended for humans and not for animals. I found the Minister's answer a little dry on the question of what can still be changed in farming itself. If those piglets just stay with the sow for longer, that's a solution. They'll be a little older and a little healthier. Such matters can also be brought up more actively from the Ministry. The same applies to calf farming. In fact, we have known for years that we are living on a time bomb that brings the introduction of animal diseases to the brink every time. That is where we are very, very vulnerable as Dutch livestock farming and the calf farming manages to stay out of the discussion every time. I think that needs to change. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I await the Minister's judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u211	Thank you. Mr Graus, PVV, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u212	Thank you, Madam President. By the way, I am very pleased with the new colleagues. We are already working together where we can, even within the party lines. I'm very happy about it, because that was different in the past. In this way you can see that renewal of the Chamber often has many advantages, even if some expertise goes away. Often these are just dusty things that disappear. It doesn't just have advantages if someone stays. I'm going to have to leave someday, too. I see the Minister before I become a gray mouse. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and the Chamber for the cooperation. I hope Dr. Weijman, the pest and pest expert, can be involved in what should actually be called the Rodentorium. That is not only a beautiful name, but it would also be desirable, given the transmission of viruses, for example by rats, and the fact that prevention is the best biocidal product. That's not how these little animals get let in and killed. It's also about barn fires and gnaw fires. They are a very big problem, especially in recent years. They seem to be increasing in some way. That's actually terrifying. I know that Fire Weather Netherlands, which I have received here, would also be a great supporter of this. That's what he is from the Stable Safe systems. I still hope that the Minister will set up a pilot stand for this. There are farmers who certainly want to try and perhaps make their farms available to become pilots for the stable safe system, so that the animals can escape as soon as a fire breaks out. For the rest, I hope that my voting advice will be taken over by my group. That is, of course, always done in the group consultation. I wish everyone a blessed evening. I have nothing else to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u213	Thank you. Mr Van Campen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u214	May I say one more thing, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u215	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u216	During an interrupting debate with Mr. De Groot, I was talking about prevention, oral, through pre- and probiotics and phytotherapeutics. Believe me, write it down somewhere, with the date and everything in it, I'm gonna get right about that, but then so many dead animals and so many dead animals later. So why don't we start with that sooner? I would like to stress this to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u217	Thank you. Mr. Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u218	Thank you. Thanks also to the Minister for the answers about this system. I am talking about the European regulation, which again affects Dutch legislation and has a direct impact on all kinds of actors such as the government and the field. I think we had a nice talk about that today. I am also very pleased with the attention the Minister wishes to give to this vaccination. I believe that the motion that I have tabled with Mr De Groot on cooperation with the sectors and their discussion can bring added value. I have two motions, Mr. Chairman. We're happy with it. I already gave it to.... that the Netherlands has a high standard for animal health. We have to keep it that way. This is good and important, not only for animal health, but also for public health. To add the factor of a level playing field for the Dutch trading position, we think it is right that the cabinet, the minister, should make that dimension sound in Europe. Other countries too can and should learn from the high standards we have in the Netherlands. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the Netherlands, in addition to European rules, a number of additional animal health rules are applicable which do not result from European rules, but are an essential part of the Dutch animal health policy;]] [[Whereas this concerns, for example, rules such as the determination of the value of animals, products and objects to be killed or rendered harmless, compensation for those animals, products and objects and the financing of those fees and other costs related to animal disease control;]] [[considers that these additional rules should apply not only to the Dutch animal health policy but also to the other European Member States in the interests of Dutch competitiveness, animal health and public health;]] [[calls on the government in Europe to highlight the added value of the Dutch animal health system in order to promote a wider follow-up of the high Dutch standard in Europe, as well as a level playing field for Dutch livestock farmers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Boswijk and Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35398-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u219	Finally, one motion on the handling of legislation and regulations that is still going to the Chamber. We'd like to stay involved in that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Animal Health Regulation includes, in addition to actualisations, harmonisations and standardisations, obligations which, without an outbreak, have regulatory pressure effects for keepers of animals;]] [[Whereas a new obligation is the fact that holders keeping professional animals are required to have sufficient knowledge of animal health;]] [[Whereas there are also obligations arising from the introduction of identification and registration requirements for more species and changes in the information to be recorded;]] [[Whereas improvements are possible for animal health, for example as regards vaccination;]] [[considers it undesirable that it is not yet sufficiently clear at present whether 1. the control pressure for animal farmers does not fall out of this disproportionate and 2. whether or not the Netherlands is eligible for exemption from those obligations;]] [[calls on the Government to forward to the Chamber, for parliamentary consideration, the further elaboration of further laws and regulations, whether from Brussels or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Tjeerd de Groot and Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35398-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u221	Twenty-one seconds, no less! Then Mrs. Van der Plas. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only have two minutes, so I'm gonna start the motions right away. I've got three. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Animal Health Fund is being filled and managed by livestock farmers (farmers) and public authorities;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy,]] [[noting, for example, that the promised poultry emergency scheme is not included in the Animal Code;]] [[Whereas compliance with and implementation of the Animal Health Fund requires greater transparency and accountability;]] [[Whereas gaps in the current charging system have not yet been resolved and specific definitions and special circumstances have not yet been added to the regulatory framework, despite the Minister's commitment to the Chamber;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to make previously agreed adjustments on an immediate basis and to share with the Chamber, before the autumn recess, each year, all digitised justifications applicable to the new charging rates for the following year, starting with tax year 2022;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that animal diseases and their control lead to a high level of regulation and roadmaps;]] [[noting that the most current animal disease we are currently dealing with, the avian flu, is still working with the Avian Influenza policy roadmap, version 2.0, of September 2013;]] [[Whereas, according to the Animal Law, these roadmaps should be updated annually;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to keep and monitor all policy and implementation plans publicly available as soon as possible on national government.nl and annually, and to provide the Chamber with an overview of all current roadmaps with a final version date for the summer recess;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35398-18]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35398-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u223	The third; I have seven seconds left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that vaccination is a policy tool in this Animal Health Regulation;]] [[Whereas BBB is in favour of vaccination, provided that it is used on a voluntary basis, equivalent to human health;]] [[Whereas animals vaccinated for animal disease control are no longer accepted for export and by the Dutch retail sector, and are therefore practically unsaleable;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to never require vaccination and to include it as such in the Animal Law;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35398-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u224	Thank you. Finally, Mr Boswijk of the CDA has the floor. Mr... The Forest... the Boswijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u225	The Boswijk. The only real one, Mr. Chairman, you've got that right. First of all, I liked being here. I also found it an extremely interesting debate, with, of course, the challenges for the sector that affects people directly and, of course, the animal suffering that is there; we cannot ignore that and we cannot accept that. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for all the answers to the questions. Much has become clear. A number of things follow, we'll wait and see. We will also submit the De Groot/Van Campen motion on preventive vaccination. We can only see it clearly in the light of the fact that the barriers to trade there are with vaccinated meat are being raised at the same time. The Minister has made a number of commitments to put this on the European agenda too, so we really do not see preventive vaccination separately from the solutions that we need to find for the barriers to the market, because it is really very important that that is going to happen. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the other motion, which I had actually announced. Yeah, well, it's kind of my maiden speech anyway, so it'd be nice if the minister would give me a little gift. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that farmers, like SMEs, are entrepreneurs;]] [[noting that increasing regulation by the trees means that farmers no longer see the forest;]] [[believes that farmers are eager to consider the practical feasibility of new rules and laws;]] [[Whereas there is a need for an agricultural practical test, equivalent to the SME test, which is also included in each explanatory memorandum of a new law;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to implement this agricultural test in each new legislative proposal, including European regulations which are transposed into Dutch law, and to inform the Court of Justice of this in autumn 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Campen, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Meijeren and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35398-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u226	Thank you very much for the opinion of my colleague, Mr Graus. We really see this as a fine challenge for the Minister. It is an emphasis on research, so you still have freedom to accentuate it, but I am very confident that you will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u227	A true charm offensive. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'll suspend until 10:05, and then we'll listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u228	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr De Groot owed me a response to his question on vaccination for the avian flu. I checked again. For the avian flu variant that is now circulating in Europe, there is no effective vaccine. As a result, we cannot proceed to vaccination. If there is a vaccine that is suitable for this type of virus, I will, of course, consider how we can use that vaccine to control the avian flu. But that's why we're not being vaccinated right now. Mr Boswijk also had a question after that: what are we doing with livestock farmers who refuse vaccinations? I shall now come to Mrs van der Plas' motion. In case of emergency vaccination, participation is, in principle, mandatory. That really is the baseline, because otherwise we will not be able to combat animal disease. Participation of all livestock farmers in the vaccination area is therefore essential. That is a line that the sectors share. If you don't take that as a baseline, it's gonna get really complicated. Then I really can't go straight to the fight. If there are people who refuse to use a vaccine for magical reasons, then it is possible to look at customization that is then delivered there. But as I said before, in such a case, it will really be surrounded by very heavy demands that you will then have to make, because otherwise you will never really be able to manage an animal disease properly. Mr Graus (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, the VWS Minister once sent a response to this. Mr Graus asked his question earlier and the Minister of VWS was also present at that time. He then looked into it and responded, so I think Mr Graus was informed about the cabinet position at that time. Then the motions, starting with the motion in part no. 14 by Mr De Groot, Mr Van Campen and by now Boswijk, I think. Vaccination is a very effective way of preventing a disease. Preventive vaccination, as it is called, is therefore desirable. It also depends on the disease if we can use the vaccines. Of course, effective vaccines must be available. That is not always the case; I mentioned the case of bird flu. In recent years, we have invested a lot in the development of different vaccines, including those against the avian flu. I am prepared to discuss with the sectors how this preventive vaccination could possibly be designed if effective vaccines are available. The question of the sectors will also be back to me, I think: what is the cost-benefit analysis of this? There are a lot of animal diseases in the world. What animal diseases are you going to vaccinate preventively against? Are they diseases that are most likely to occur on the European continent? Of course, these kinds of things all play a part in deciding whether to do so, plus the question: what consequences does it have for trade relations? That was the point made by Mr Van Campen. I will look with the sectors at the possibilities and the possibilities, and I will inform the Chamber accordingly. I don't know how fast I'm gonna do that. Just give me a minute, for the summer, if that's okay. If I may explain the motion in this way, I can give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u230	Mr De Groot. Your motion gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u231	I would like to thank the Minister for that. I'd still like to ask you to check it out for the avian flu vaccine, because I have other information. I would like that to be included. Is there or isn't there a working vaccine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u232	There are vaccines for the avian flu, in general, but not for the variant that is currently circulating in Europe. That's my information, and I've really asked you three times. I have no reason to lie about that either, because if there are vaccines that we can use and that are effective, then I will certainly not fail to do so. The motion in part No. 16 on the added value of the Dutch system, I can give judgment to Chamber. Some things we do. In Paris, I once told you about the DGF, the Animal Health Fund. The European colleagues are also very interested in this. Our basic monitoring is a good example, but I will also do it wider. So this motion I'm judging Chamber. The motion in part No. 17 I will judge Chamber if I can explain the motion as follows. That I inform the Chamber by letter about policy intentions for future changes to the ministerial regime and inform the Chamber of what further European rules still apply and what the Dutch commitment is. Drafts of European implementing legislation are not sent to the Chamber as such, but I will inform you that they are coming. In the end, it is up to the Chamber to decide whether it wants to treat it, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u233	I see Mr Van Campen nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u234	Then it's judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 18 by Mrs Van der Plas. I had to look, because we have indeed set and published the rates of 2021 in the Official Journal. So the second observation is wrong. They've been published in the Official Journal, so there are. The question now is to make the agreed adjustments immediately and to share with the Chamber every year early on all figures for the autumn recess. That last one, before the autumn recess, I can promise. We can do that, to share the numerical basis with the Chamber. There is also a demand for the agreed adjustments to be made immediately. That's another big step. That is a very tight deadline, because it has to be set and published before 2022. So I can't do it all right now. In any case, I can say that the figures can be used for the autumn recess. As far as the second part is concerned, I can send the draft to the Chamber, but I do not have much room in the process. So that's where the hiccup sits to run it very tight. I just can't do that. If the explanation is that I'm going through it with speed, then I can, but I can at the moment that we've all established it in the route. I'm really trying to do it as fast as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u235	Perhaps I may suggest to Mrs van der Plas that she amends the motion, also because the observation about the publication of the figures is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u236	That's what I'd like to suggest. Then we'll make a change. Then I'd like to know what "temporarily" is. When would it be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u237	We need to establish and publish the case for 2022. That's a step-by-step. We also need to consult and advise the Council of State. I have to go through all these steps. If that's what happened, I can put it through. I just have to take those steps. So I can't immediately, but I'm reading the motion so I have to keep the pace. Let me put it this way. I'm willing to do that. If it is formulated that way, I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u238	Then I'm gonna go and talk to you, but just assume that we...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u239	... file the amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u240	... file the amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u241	And he gets judgment, Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u242	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u243	Good. Then we're going to move to part number one. 19, also by Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u244	Yeah, about the playbook of the Animal Law. I just didn't put it right. I'm gonna have to take that back. I had said that the roadmaps were updated following the evaluation of previous outbreaks. We are working on the basis of the new insights after the evaluation, but not all of them have been implemented in the script; I need to be very strict about this. Mrs Van der Plas asks if I can still update it and put it on the Internet. I do. That's what I want. I could do that without the summer, because the deadlines for this are also a bit tight. But if I can explain the motion in such a way that I inform the Chamber around the summer about what that looks like and that it will be on the Internet, then I can give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u245	Motion in part No. 19 gets judgment Chamber. Motion in part No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u246	Then I come to the point that was also raised when I answered Mr Boswijk's question. It's about vaccination. This motion really goes far. He asked the cabinet never to require vaccination and to include it as such in the Animal Law. If that becomes the baseline, I can't fight a disease properly. I have just explained to Mr Boswijk how to deal with such exceptions, but these should be genuinely justified and justified requests for exceptions, with strict requirements being applied in the other direction. Moreover, the sector does not want it to be voluntary either, because it is in the best interest of each other to take this up properly, especially in the case of emergency vaccinations. Then I just have to do it in order to be able to take control of the fight properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u247	So this motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u248	I understand you can't do it with emergency vaccination. We must then have compulsory vaccination, but now European rules simply lay down the requirement for vaccination. We've already had a discussion on that. We simply want to be able to keep the voluntary in it, apart from the emergency vaccination, which is not possible. But yeah, we'll just file the motion, even though she's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u249	This motion is generally about vaccination. I have just explained that emergency vaccination is a problem if I do not have that possibility. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u250	Okay. Finally, the motion for a resolution by Mr Boswijk and others. in piece No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u251	Mr Boswijk has indeed put his charms well into battle. Haha. Because it was his maiden speech, he asked to take a sympathetic look at it. I'm sensitive to that, so to anyone who still has a maiden speech to make, I say, take it with you in your considerations. This calls for a study on how this practical test could be designed. I'm willing to look into that. I haven't quite figured out what it should look like and what parts it should have. As I said, there are parts that we are already taking with us, but we may be able to add things to that. I'm willing to look into that. With that explanation, I can give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u252	The motion in part No. 21 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u253	Yes. And I can also see that amendment to item No. 15 has been adjusted according to what I had requested. On the basis of this explanatory statement, I can leave the opinion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u254	So Amendment No. 15 to replace that in item No 15 11 gets judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u255	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u256	Thank you to Mrs Vestering for that. Mr De Groot, I see, has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u257	I will come back to the avian influenza vaccines, including the report. I have information that there's a new generation of vaccines that haven't been approved yet. A pilot should now be authorised so that a limited number of companies can use it to look at its effectiveness. There seems to be support for this in the sector and in the veterinarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u258	I wonder where Mr De Groot gets all his information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u259	Utrecht University.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u260	Okay. As far as I know right now, there's no working vaccine. I will return this information to our people. But I don't know now, so I can't go into it either. Mr President, I would like to thank the Chamber very much for dealing with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-21-tweedekamer-11.u261	Thank you for your answer. I thank my colleagues and close the sitting.
