ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we move on to the next two-minute debate, because all the speakers are now present. We will start with this a little earlier than is on the agenda, but that is a good thing, because Mrs Den Haan has other obligations after this. She may be the first speaker in this debate. Welcome aboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Very nice, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Thank you also to the Minister for answering all the questions; there were a lot of them. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there has been a debate on what is a heavy occupation for many years;]] [[Whereas a solution has now been found in the pension agreement to leave it to employers' and employees' organisations, and it is therefore up to them to determine whether an employee can and may retire for the AOW age in a particular occupation;]] [[whereas EUR 1 billion has been made available for this purpose;]] [[noting that mostly only physically heavy occupations are characterised as heavy and not the psychologically heavy professions;]] [[noting that it is unfortunately still the case that older workers find it more difficult to return to work because of their age, even after retraining;]] [[noting the need to focus on sustainable employability and to develop a lifelong approach to preventing the need for workers to flow earlier;]] [[noting that not only the employability of older workers is sufficient, but there are still prejudices among employers;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a plan to ensure that employers' prejudice towards older workers is removed, so that not only employability is promoted but also labour market opportunities, in order to avoid the need for older workers to go with AOW earlier,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a pension agreement was concluded more than two years ago;]] [[Whereas its effects have been considerably delayed and to date there is no clarity on important issues such as a rapid prospect of indexation, a fair transition to the possible new pension system (where in the current system growing imbalances such as capital transfers from old to young are adequately addressed) and increased ownership of pensioners in the run-up to that transition and beyond;]] [[noting that this also increases the discontent among pensioners (but also among those in work) and reduces the level of support for the pension agreement accordingly;]] [[calls on the Government to involve senior citizens' organisations more closely in the consultation on this impact, and to develop, as soon as possible, a clear definition of the above-mentioned issues in the manner referred to above (leading to the prospect of indexation by 2022, a fair transition and increased control),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-563]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-564]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, too. Then it might be good to point out that we are now engaged in the two-minute debate on the impact of the pension agreement and that we have started a little earlier. Then I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for all the answers to our questions. I am also speaking on behalf of Mrs Matoug van GroenLinks. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 1 billion was made available in the pension agreement to stop working earlier;]] [[Whereas people who have been in heavy employment for years and have low income or a small pension cannot afford to stop working earlier;]] [[Whereas the Asscher/Klaver motion adopted (3243), No. 458) calls for individual workers to also be able to use the "preferably stop working" funds;]] [[calls on the Government to make the "pre-retirement" scheme more accessible by examining the financial bottlenecks of employees, low-income or low-pension, and to come forward with proposals to give these people the opportunity to stop working earlier, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many flex workers have little or no pension;]] [[noting that the pension agreement and confirmed by the Labour Foundation states that the waiting period for temporary workers is aligned with that laid down by law for the other sectors;]] [[noting that the change in the law has been linked by the Minister to the new pension contract and that this is slowing down;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber the bill of adaptation of the temporary agency industry so that there is no legal exception for temporary agency workers as soon as possible but by 1 January 2023 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-565]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-566]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Then I have two more concerns, perhaps in line with Mrs Den Haan. We can see that the concerns about the lack of indexing, especially for the current pensioners, are really very great. This applies not only to the coming year, but also to the years that they are now lagging behind. Of course, you can accept this partly in purchasing power, but we also want this new pension contract because it is a better contract for young people and because it also brings closer the prospect of indexation for older people and indeed for all participants. That is why I have an appeal to the Minister and also an appeal to us to make this work as quickly as possible, because it is important that we get there, so that we can overcome this discontent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, too. Then we'll move on to the next speaker. That is Mr Van Kent of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. More and more pensioners and employees want to influence the way their pension money is invested and managed. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pensioners and workers are taking action to increase control over the way pension funds and pension administrators manage their money;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways in which far-reaching forms of control can be given to pensioners and workers and to forward these options to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-567]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then there is the debate on indexing pensions. For more than 12 years, most pensions have not been indexed. A pension agreement has been concluded and in the meantime indexation remains out. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost all pension benefits have not increased for more than 10 years, while prices and rents have increased significantly;]] [[Whereas, after a lifetime of hard work, many pensioners are now struggling to make ends meet and feel forgotten and unappreciated;]] [[calls on the government to reopen negotiations on the pension agreement in order to enable indexing for each generation in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-568]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. Then we come to the last speaker in this debate. That's Mrs. Palland from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his detailed answer to our question in response to his letter on the progress of the implementation of the pension agreement. But I have some follow-up questions to clarify the Minister's answers in the report of our written consultation. We have now had an extensive consultation round and the draft legislative proposal will also be reviewed by the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review and by the Tax Administration on implementation issues. The feasibility test, but also the visibility of what is being done with input from the consultation round, is important for my group. The Minister states that in a separate paragraph in the explanatory memorandum of the bill input is incorporated. However, I would ask the Minister to mention earlier the results of the checks on feasibility and the adjustments made following the consultation round. Perhaps this could be done in a technical briefing, for example, to prevent us from getting everything at once at a later date. Then there is the joint implementation platform, which should contribute to the transition and the transition manual that is drawn up by the Foundation of Labour. When does the construction of this platform start and the writing of the manual? If that does not start until after the law has been dealt with, the question is whether it will be ready in time for 1 January 2023. Can the Minister briefly explain this trajectory? The transition ftk is aimed at achieving a good starting position for switching to the new system, and it may be necessary to improve the financial position of a pension fund. That is what my group supports, but I still want to understand in good time the costs of improving that financial position. Couldn't that also be a free pass for funds to cut short? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally. The Minister claims that the survivor's pension has been investigated. As a result of this study, it is considered how to deal with different situations to which the survivor's pension may apply. Can the Minister indicate when this investigation has been completed? Can he share this investigation with the Chamber? Is an inventory of the most common situations part of this study? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We'll suspend for a few minutes and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for the questions and motions tabled. I know that Mrs Den Haan had to leave, and that is why I ask Mr Van Dijk as co-signator of the motion for a resolution on item No. 563 to hold on to these. Then I'm going to find out what's the latest on the Action Plan 50PlusWorks. The people of support present here today do not know it, and in the short term they will not, so if you wish to continue the motion, I can ensure that you are informed of the latest state of affairs. We have evaluated it, and good and bad measures have emerged from it. We're looking at what's wise in this now. So a friendly request to hold the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	I see colleague Van Dijk nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	At the request of Mrs Den Haan, I propose her motion (3243), No. 563). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	The motion in part No. Mrs Den Haan's 564 requests two things. One. Involvement of senior organizations. We are already doing this very intensively, together with the youth organisations, by the way. I myself have two or three months of consultation with the pensioners' organisations and the trade union youth organisations on the preparation of the pension agreement, so that is well arranged. The second point is about speeding up the process of indexing. That's in the bill: it's the purpose of the bill itself. That's state-of-the-art policy. I already do both, and so I can say "judge chamber." Let me just do that in the context of good relations with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	The motion in part No. 564 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	"Slimeball," I hear Mr Van Dijk say... Then the motion-Gijs van Dijk/Maatoug in part No. 565. There is one point in the recitals on which I do not entirely agree with Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Maatoug, namely that I cannot afford to stop working earlier. I know there was a broadcast last week from Nieuwsuur about that. I've seen it, too. What we are doing now is first of all monitoring the collective agreements in which the FPU arrangements are agreed on early retirement. We have just made available to these sectors the EUR 1 billion grant scheme, the MDIEU scheme, to enable financial compensation, but also to focus on sustainable employability. In the first quarter of 2022 we bring out the first monitor results. An independent agency does that for us. I propose that Mr Van Dijk continue this motion and that we look at those monitoring results. Then we can see if this is indeed the case. Otherwise, I have to discourage the motion now, because then it goes through the whole system of collective agreements, subsidies and the initial results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Van Dijk, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'm really not going along with that. I think it is important that we see in time that it may not be financially possible for people on low incomes or a small pension. That's more my fear. We could also do it in such a way that you do give the motion judgment Chamber. The monitoring will take place, but I am afraid that we will only then find that some people may get into trouble, that we will then have to make another ruling in the Chamber and that the cabinet will then get back to work. I think it is very important for this group, which is in the period when it wants to leave, to make adjustments in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	I agree with that in itself, but then we have to see that there are problems. Casusism is complicated. Last week I saw an example. I was told that there is a great deal of part-time work in the collective agreement. The RVU benefit is also based on the part-time fraction. I understand that it is very complicated to be able to fully resign if you work 40% and therefore get 40% AOW. The question is whether this is a problem with this regulation or whether it is, in essence, a collective agreement. Before you know it, you're solving this kind of problem, while the basic problem is of course on the collective bargaining table. I understand Mr Van Dijk's point. It's my intention to make this work. There should be no misunderstanding about this, because it is an important part of the pension agreement. However, I find it difficult to solve something that I do not even know what the problem is. Mr Van Dijk must understand that too. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that it must be done as quickly as possible. If we have any indications that it's true, then of course we should be able to act. I agree with Mr Van Dijk. But I find it complicated to do this in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	I'm not gonna hold the motion yet, but I'm gonna see if I'm gonna change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	Yes. You know that I always think constructively in this discussion, because I also want it to succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	The motion in part No. 565 is thus dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	I'm afraid I'm gonna have to do some suction again. The motion in part No. 566 by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mrs Maatoug and Mr Van Kent concern the adjustment of the waiting time for temporary work. That's in the bigger bill on the future of pensions. It is part of the whole pension agreement. This makes it part of the overall broad legislation. If that part is taken out now and the whole cycle of tests, advice and that kind of thing is done again, then it will not go any faster than with the current legislative proposal. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that it must have entered into force before 1 January 2023. This also has to do with indexation and with the broader pension system. So pulling it out separately isn't gonna be faster, and it won't solve the problem either. The social partners have made a collective agreement to speed up implementation. I would, however, like to return to the discussion with the social partners about speeding up the impact of the collective agreement. So I'd like to do that, but I advise against treating it separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	This is one of the important elements of the pension agreement. It is not true that everything is tied to the pension contract, because the scheme to quit work earlier is already in place. The AOW delay and the adjustment in the rate of increase have already been adopted. Earlier, we had to wait for social partners. Nothing ever really came out of that. At least it took a long time, when we really saw this as an important point. We need to get these flex forces in position as soon as possible. So I would simply like to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	I have another explanation to avoid misunderstandings. It is true what Mr Gijs van Dijk says. We've done separate parts of the legislation. The point is, it's an amendment to the Pension Act. It's in the larger bill Law Future Pensions. My argument is not that I disagree, but my argument is that getting it out now can't go any faster than what we're doing with the bigger bill. So if you take it out, then it's not done before, given the legislative test, the execution tests and the advice by the Council of State. In fact, then there will be a separate route, when we are already very busy with the big law that we have to do. It is therefore not a substantive argument, but a technical argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	The motion in part No. 566 gets dissuaded in judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	Then the motion to part No. 567 by Mr Van Kent. I would like to put another question to Mr Van Kent. Does his request relate in particular to the investment policies of pension funds, for example, sustainability and that kind of thing, and not to wider control? The broader control and also the strengthened control of the transition are, of course, included in the future pensions bill, but I think the request is about something else. Yes. A few years ago, we had an initiative law. There have also been movements to strengthen that control. I see that we have a great deal of work to do on the future of the pension system. So we also see no capacity to pick this up separately. That is why I would like to discourage this motion at this time. There is a lot going on in this area, by the way. Many pension funds, for example the 100 largest, have committed to corporate social responsibility and corporate social responsibility internationally. In consultation with their participants, they are very busy investing in a more sustainable way. That's what you see in the paper every week. But I'd still advise against doing a separate investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	The motion text says "to be examined." That "let" is in brackets. So if the Minister says that he has no official capacity for that, then that investigation may be invested elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	That means that we have to go along with it and people have to follow it. And if that leads to changes, then we have to start making new legislation again. There's just no capacity for that in the next two years. All the capacity we have, we need for the big bill of future pensions and for the implementation of the new pension system. Nor do I see the urgency, given that all major pension funds are very conscious about this and have signed the Covenant on Corporate Social Responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	I think this is something special. If there is a wish in the Chamber, then the Minister's response is not 'no, I find that undesirable' or 'no, I don't think that is a good idea', but he says 'no, we don't have the capacity'. This would be a question from the Chamber for an investigation, and that could also be done externally. I do not think that the argument and the way in which the Minister advises this motion is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	The Chamber is asking me a question. I say, I don't see the urgency, because we just did this. Secondly, I say that there are all kinds of other routes that also require capacity. If the Chamber adopts the motion, we will of course do so; that is how it works in a parliamentary democracy. But that is without prejudice to the fact that I can "dissuade' a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	That gives the motion in part No. 567 dissuade judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	The motion in part No. 568, also by Mr Van Kent. The government must reopen the negotiations on the pension agreement. Well, I wasn't going to; we've had very long negotiations, like, ten years, to come to that agreement. But the aim of the new law is, of course, to allow faster indexation for each generation. That is why I also call on your Chamber to start the examination of the bill as soon as possible when it is in your Chamber, so that it can also be effective. So I must advise against this motion, but I fully agree with Mr Van Kent on the intention of a quick indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	The motion in part No. 568 dissuaded the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	Then there were four questions from Mrs Palland. Let's see. The order was: first the execution keys. I think I sent what we are doing in writing to your Chamber last week. We're doing a whole set of keys right now. So AFM, DNB, College of Human Rights, the ATR Oh, that's the control pressure review, the Dutch Data Protection Authority, and I'm probably forgetting a few right now. And the IRS. These are the most important execution tests. We receive the results and incorporate them in a final draft legislative proposal. And that goes for advice to the Council of State. When it comes back from the Council of State, of course, we can still see if we still need to adapt it to some of the criticisms of the Council of State. But we are already trying to include the comments from the execution tests in the final legislative proposal that goes to the Council of State. It is not customary for all kinds of elements to come out in the meantime, also because they are not final proposals. Then there may be unrest; even more so, in recent weeks there has been unrest over, for example, the tax treatment of annuities. That was once in a consultation document. The bill itself includes a separate chapter, which explains what has been done not only with the comments from the consultation, but also with the comments from the execution tests. So that is very transparent. Those execution tests are also sent along with the legislative proposal. Mrs Palland also asked whether we would not be able to hold another technical briefing when we are one step further, in order to be able to look at the total, because it is such a big bill. I can imagine. I think this is a legitimate request and we always want to do so. We have done this before the summer, I think, but we can't do this until we're a step further and we know what we can explain. But everything will be available to view when submitting to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	It sounds very good that the willingness for such a technical briefing is, of course, always there, as the Minister says. But we are concerned that it is not at the last moment, when the whole package is there. There are also intermediate steps. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have the time to do so, so that we can be updated in the meantime, without creating any unrest. We have indeed had a technical briefing, also because there are a number of new spokesmen, including myself. But that technical briefing will have to be seen in the implementation dilemmas that might be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u41	I hope that we can pay attention to this in good time. We want to be included as a Chamber and a little less perhaps in the general system and the underlying objectives. We know it and we share it. But it's really on that performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u42	I understand that request. We can see if we can include that in that technical briefing, if that's relevant. I'm just out of my mind wondering if those are the biggest problems. The biggest problems are, of course, in the implementation phase after that, which should take five years. We are going to find out if we can meet Mrs Palland's request in the technical briefing. Mrs Palland's next question was about the implementation of the platform. It will be a joint implementation of the platform to contribute to the transition, but also to support the social partners. Together with the Foundation of Labour, the Pension Federation and the Association of Insurance Companies, we are working on the information platform. This will be available for decentralised parties. The transition manuals from the Labour Foundation are really manuals from employers and employees for decentralised parties, such as collective bargaining parties, employers and employees. Those manuals are an important part of that platform. Its purpose is to give parties practical support through this platform in moving to a new contract on time and in implementing the new system. Given all the preparations that funds and social partners need to make, the platform will be live in the coming months. This is well in time for the entry into force of the law. That has to be because they are really fundamental steps. You have the labour-conditional phase, but also the technical implementation. So for the next few months, we're gonna work on that. Mrs Palland's third question concerned the transition-ftk. That is a very important part of the Future Pensions Act. On the basis of the agreements which make the funds decentralised at the labour-conditional table on the transfer to the new system, they go for a "coverage rate." A coverage rate is a level of coverage needed to ensure a balanced transition from the current system to the new system for all participants. A bit technically formulated is how you can convert the claims in the current system into assets for the new system. This level of cover varies from one fund to another. A young fund needs a different level of cover than a fund with many older participants. In practice, we see that the level of coverage between the funds is very different. There are funds that are just over 100 and there are funds that, so to speak, touch almost 200. I'm not afraid this is gonna be a free pass for shortcuts. In fact, the discussion over the past year has been how we avoid discounts and also how we avoid unnecessary discounts in the spirit of the new pension agreement. The consultation documents have already said that we want to give that space over the next few years, for example by applying a lower limit of 90%, so that funds have some room for a responsible transition to the new system without having to cut short. However, the funds must explain to their participants why they need a certain level of cover in order to be able to switch between young, middle and old in a balanced way. That's kind of the thought of transition ftk. But it's not a free pass to cut! I rather think it is felt and seen the other way around in practice. Finally, Mrs Palland's last question was about the survivor's pension. At the request of SZW, Kantar research firm carried out a qualitative study on the survivor's pension and choices in the benefit rhythm. This research has focused on whether the uniform rate of benefit of the partner pension corresponds to the needs and wishes of the survivors of whom the partner died before the pension date. It's really about before the retirement date, because that's different from after the retirement date. It has been examined whether survivors themselves should be given a choice to determine the rate of benefit. That research can be found on the website of the government. Of course, I can send it to your room if you wish. I see Mrs. Palland nodding, so that's what I'm gonna do. I'm going to send it to your room. The report shows, among other things, that more options for the partner pension are desired by both advisors and survivors, under a number of conditions. These conditions are: a good accompaniment to the choice, sufficient time to make a choice, and a benefit that must have a lifelong component, so that it is not focused on a few years after the partner's death, but is longer. Those are some of the elements of the investigation. I'll send that to the Room. For the people who can't wait for that: national government.nl, Kantar. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-4.u44	That brings us to the next two-minute debate on labour migration.
