ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 34641, Amendment of the Code of Criminal Law in relation to the inclusion of a specific criminal exclusion ground for detectives who have used violence in the legitimate exercise of their duties and a criminalisation of violation of the violent instruction and amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with the inclusion of a basis for criminal investigation into the use of force by detectives, simply the Act of Violence Abuse Investigation Officer. The plenary session of this proposal had already begun and was suspended on 30 March 2021 during the first term of the Chamber. We will continue the debate with the speaker who was next. Mr Recourt is absent due to personal circumstances. During the day he will take part in the debate. Mrs Vos will take part in the debate for the time being in his absence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Law to include a specific grounds for the exclusion of detectives who have used violence in the legitimate exercise of their duties. The task of these investigators is set out in Article 3 of the Police Act. I quote: 'The task of the police is to ensure the effective enforcement of the rule of law and to provide assistance to those who need it in accordance with the law in force'. As my colleague Lilian Helder in the House of Representatives pointed out when dealing with this bill, the word "task" implies that a police officer is obliged to act. According to the same Police Act, he or she is permitted to use force. The violence must, of course, be proportionate to the crime in question and there must not be any other possibility of a stand-up or arrest. It is good to bear in mind that where citizens can take a step backwards in certain situations, the task of a police officer is precisely to move away from a threatening situation, to ensure that it de-escalates and avoids the use of violence. Mr. Chairman. This law aims to settle two important issues: the above-mentioned penalty exclusion grounds for investigators and a fact-finding investigation. For the specific grounds for exclusion, a distinction is made between the use of force within the legitimate exercise of the task and the use of violence outside. The new penalty exclusion grounds to be introduced shall apply only to the use of force exercised in accordance with the instructions for violence. Violation of the violence instruction is punishable. A further distinction is made between cases where there is an infringement of the instruction of violence as a result of a culpable error of judgement or carelessness and cases where an investigative officer intentionally violates the instruction of violence. Mr. Chairman. Practice teaches us that in most cases a policeman or woman has to decide in a split second. A violent use can consist of rolling each other down the street or worse, cases where the service gun must be used. In all cases, the violence used will comply with the definition of acts of violence. One can think of abuse or even manslaughter. What is currently happening in practice is that a police officer who uses violence at first instance is regarded as a suspect, even if after the investigation it appears that this policeman or woman is going free because he or she acted according to the instruction of violence, or that he or she acted out of self-defense. The aim of the legislative proposal before us now is to put an end to this situation in the sense that a police officer is no longer directly regarded as a suspect. A good thing, given the special task of the police. To this end, a separate research framework has been included in the legislative proposal. For example, after the use of force which results in serious physical injury or the use of the firearm, an investigation of the facts carried out by the State's Attorney's Office may be initiated at the request of the Public Prosecutor. It seems clear to me that the truth must be at the forefront of this fact-finding. The outcome of the fact-finding will clarify whether the policeman or woman concerned has used the violence according to the instruction of violence. If this is not the case, a criminal investigation will follow in order to determine whether the new proposed Article 372 Code of Criminal Law has been infringed: violation of the instruction or a service requirement, instead of the investigation focusing on serious abuse or manslaughter. A clear distinction is therefore made between the fact-finding and the regular investigation. The investigation of the facts is aimed at investigating whether the violence has been used according to the instruction of violence, the regular investigation is aimed at whether a criminal offence has been committed. The investigation of the facts therefore always precedes a possible criminal investigation, where in the latter case the policeman or woman concerned is only considered a suspect. Again: a good thing. Mr. Chairman. This law is linked to the instruction of the office, so to speak, the internal disciplinary process. It indicates the lower limit which violence is certainly not proportional. As far as I understand it, in principle, any registration of violence ends up with the head of the sector. The Head of Sector shall deliver an opinion on the professionalism of the use of violence. This opinion and the underlying documents then go to the Commission on Violence, which also gives an opinion. On the basis of these opinions, the police chief decides whether the use of violence was professional or not. It looks at both the legality of Article 7 of the Police Act and the instruction of the office as well as at craftsmanship. If, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, there is reason to do so, he shall inform the Prosecutor as soon as possible. The Public Prosecutor then decides whether an investigation of the facts is to be initiated under Article 511a Criminal Procedure. It seems to me that the procedure is sufficiently secure in this way. The cases discussed above may lead to an incident coming into line with criminal law after the investigation of the facts. But also a citizen's declaration can ensure that the prosecutor decides to investigate the facts. Is it true that this fact-finding will then be carried out by the state police, the VIC or by another department not involved in the incident? If so, what are the criteria for choosing one or the other route? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with three questions to the Minister. Firstly, what happens if an investigative officer uses disproportionate force as a result of a culpable error of assessment by the management echelon? What does this mean for the investigating officer in question, and what are the consequences for the echelon in question? My second question concerns a commitment made to three times by the Minister in the Lower House that the notification form should not serve as evidence in a possible criminal proceedings. How does the Minister intend to honour this commitment? Could the Minister, for example, incorporate the commitment into the instruction? Finally, I would like to know from the Minister whether it is true that investigation of criminal investigations or investigation of facts can be used in the course of instruction. If so, could the Minister specify that? Mr. Chairman. So much for my first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mr Meijer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Let me just say that the VVD Group is in favour of this bill. In our assessment, we have first of all chosen the position of investigators as an angle, because those investigators perform an important role in our society. They can sometimes find themselves in a situation where they are forced to use force, when their task so requires and when there is really no other way. Of course, it is in everyone's interest, both of the investigator himself and of society and of the victim, to investigate the use of force if such use is not proportionate. However, account must be taken of the special responsibility of the investigating officer, for that is why the investigating officer distinguishes himself from others who use violence. Such a careful process is regulated by this bill. Mr. Chairman. I've been under the old police law for years. As a result, I also had powers and responsibilities towards police officers. I remember the impact of a criminal investigation on a cop and his family if that cop had ended up in a situation where, for example, he or she had used the firearm. You can then immediately be identified as a suspect in a violent crime. This bill takes better account of the special and vulnerable position of the investigating officer. It has been said before: this bill introduces a legal framework for the assessment of acts of violence, a fact-finding investigation, without the investigation officer being directly regarded as a suspect, a specific criminal offence and a penalty exclusion ground that is explicitly focused on the task and jurisdiction. In addition, the treatment of all those cases takes place in one court. Mr. Chairman. The treatment in the Lower House had a clear focus, with an important and also accepted amendment proposed by the member Van Dam: a fact that is charged with this new article in the Criminal Code cannot also be charged with referring to another crime. The district attorney is therefore given a clear choice. As far as we are concerned, that was a useful clarification. Moreover, it does not alter the principle of opportunity: the prosecutor himself decides for which crime is being prosecuted. In addition, we welcome the commitment of the Minister in the House of Representatives to evaluate the functioning of this legislative amendment after four years. The practice will be the best touchstone. Mr. Chairman. The examination of the bill in this Chamber has so far had a somewhat broader scope. Questions have been asked about the content of the instruction itself. In the opinion of the VVD Group, this bill can be assessed independently of the precise content of the instruction of the office without prejudice to the value of those questions. Since others have taken note of this in this debate, I should also like to make a few comments. The extension of the instruction is provided by some other speakers with a somewhat negative connotation. From my own administrative experience, I judge that differently. I was mayor of a city where pilots were played with the extended baton, the power surge gun and the bodycam. From this I have learned that it is of great value for an investigative officer to have at his disposal, in threatening situations, a weapon that lies between the stick and the firearm, so that more proportionate violence can be applied. I have also observed how careful and professional the training is for the use of these means of violence, where the concept of "de-escalation" is always central. In my group's view, discussions on, for example, discrimination, racism and ethnic profiling within the police are also separate from the present proposal for a legal framework for assessing the use of violence. Of course, we also see the context. George Floyd's death, which took place in Minneapolis at the end of May last year and which is now more topical than ever, had its impact on the public assessment of this bill, as demonstrated by the many e-mails we have received on this subject. It also affected the question in the more preliminary report and in the debate so far. In the meantime, there are also new cases of police violence in the United States that can be condemned. Let there be no misunderstanding: the VVD Group also condemns the disproportionate use of violence by investigators. If this occurs, this should also be denounced. The same applies to ethnic profiling, by the way, a tough subject. Here too, I experienced the discussion closely, when Typhoon publicly raised this issue in 2016 following an arrest in the municipality where I was mayor at the time. I know the fragile boundary between the so-called patser approach and ethnic profiling. The subject deserves a great deal of attention, but in our opinion this can also be discussed separately from the discussion of this bill. In its contribution today, the VVD Group therefore confines itself to the framework for assessing the use of violence and, where appropriate, its criminal sanctioning. The draft law does not deal with the rules of use itself. As far as we are concerned, the core of the assessment framework is that the prosecutor will have more opportunities to differentiate according to the seriousness of the fact on the basis of the fact-finding. Until now, only a general crime of violence has been prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u6	Actually, I was just waiting, because I didn't know if you were almost finished. Let me return to a subject that you touched on a while ago: the Van Dam amendment from the House of Representatives and the principle of opportunity of the Public Prosecutor. I heard you say 'we support it; it is a clarification', but I would like to tell you the following. At the moment, a prosecutor can charge something primarily and in the alternative. The hearing shall then be examined. Depending on the defendant's answers, it can be said at some point that we are going for the subsidiary. For that, a conviction can take place. The Van Dam amendment separates it, splits it. Suppose that the primary cannot be charged, then there is no alternative, because the officer should have opted for the hearing when preparing the charge. Do you really think this would be an improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u7	In any case, it gives a little more certainty and clarity to the investigating officer himself as to what fact he is going to be prosecuted for and under what title. There can no longer be any change of track. As far as I am concerned, it is an improvement, particularly from the point of view of clarity, but I would like to hear the Minister on this. I thought he had left the judgment to the Chamber at the trial in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u8	But with that, you are actually supporting restricting the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office in drawing up a charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u9	Yeah, I guess, without explicitly considering it in advance. The point is that there will be a clear framework for an investigation officer. I have the impression that this amendment has made the framework clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr Dittrich, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u11	My last interruption, Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group actually regrets that the amendment has been tabled. So we do not support the support given by the VVD Group to it, because we believe that the Public Prosecutor should have the freedom to make full use of the truth at the hearing, and that is no longer possible because the Van Dam amendment says that you have to choose in advance: whether one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u12	That is not really a question anymore, but a conclusion from Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u13	I'm gonna go back a little bit, too. I hear Mr Meijer say that the VVD supports the extension of the contents of the instruction with new applications of violence such as the taser and the police dog. I have a question about democratic control of that. In my first term, I have already said that my group believes that democratic control of the content of the instruction is lacking. Both chambers have nothing to say about that. We would like to see this changed, partly because research shows that enlargement is much more widely supported by the population. How's the VVD looking at that? Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u14	I have no direct objection to that. But you yourself brought it up in the debate, I believe, a little from a negative connotation. I have tried, above all, to point out that, with the extension of the instruction, a wider arsenal of means of violence is available, so that they can be better applied to the situation that requires it. I find it more complicated when other means of violence become available at the ends, especially at the farthest end, above the firearm. It is now almost a nuance within the existing ministry instruction. If there is to be a heavier parliamentary scrutiny, I have no objection to that, but I can also live very well with the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u15	Apart from how you look at politics at the content of that instruction, I hear you say that further democratic control would be conceivable as far as you are concerned and, in a sense, desirable. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u16	I await the Minister's response on that point. At some point it must also be manageable where we are all involved as a parliament. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u17	One last comment. I have previously made the comparison with the Opium Act, where lists I and II are also presented to both Chambers. That is, of course, also manageable. So I understand when you say it must be manageable; I'll give you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u18	I have also said that I await the Minister's response before you draw any conclusions on my position. I think I was in the debate about how we interpret the bill. My penultimate sentence was: Up until now, only a general crime of violence can be prosecuted. If this bill is accepted, the rules governing the use of violence, the instruction of violence, can be assessed. This concerns both the instruction of the office and the relevant articles of the Police Act, which deal with, inter alia, proportionality, subsidiarity, reasonableness and moderation, all in a context aimed at de-escalation. The violation of the instruction of violence by an error of judgment or carelessness can then be prosecuted as a criminal offence. In doing so, account may be taken of the circumstances of the use of violence and the accusation that the investigating officer concerned may be made. For us, that is a clear line. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister once again to state how this works, for example, in cases where the investigating officer deliberately violated the instruction and used force that resulted in physical injury or death. In the new situation, the public prosecutor can still use the existing legislation to prosecute the investigating officer for acts of violence such as assault and manslaughter? We are asking this on the basis of the specific example, because we would like to give the Minister the opportunity to take away the impression, more generally, that some people, especially outside this Chamber, have been legitimised by the proposal before us. We don't have that impression. Mr. Chairman, I'm finishing up. In our view, this bill creates a new criminal law framework that takes into account the special position of the investigating officer in relation to the use of violence. We think that is a good thing. We await with interest the further examination and the Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS attaches great importance to starting by expressing the enormous appreciation for all policemen and women who take care of our security day and night, often under difficult circumstances. Despite overload and staff shortages, they are ready for us. There's no harm in bringing that up in this house again. Violence against citizens is in some cases used in the exercise of their duties. I shall come back to that later on in the instruction of the office, and it is recorded when violence may be used. This bill Violence investigation officer oversees the assessment of the use of force. Police officers will now be given a separate position in this proposal as a cause of personal injury or death by guilt. Agents must comply with the established instruction of violence, but only afterwards can it be established whether the violence applied was proportionate. During the course of the current criminal investigation, the agent is considered to be a suspect, a qualification that is considered to be highly burdensome for the persons concerned. At the same time, the agent is expected to use force if necessary in the performance of his duties. The investigating officer concerned is thus, as it were, in a gap, and this bill must provide for his exceptional position in criminal law. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to the three proposed amendments. Firstly, a specific exclusion ground will be created for investigators who have used violence in the exercise of their duties as police officers and have followed the current instructions on violence. In other words, a police officer who has shot or used violence is not punishable if he has acted both within the duties instruction and the Police Act 2012. Secondly, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that the prosecutor may order an investigation of the facts into the use of force by the investigating officer without being immediately regarded as a suspect of a criminal offence. Only if a decision to prosecute is taken on the basis of this investigation will the investigating officer become a suspect. And in the event of violation of the violent instruction, he is punishable. Thirdly, a new criminal offence article, 372 Criminal Law, is being introduced. This article is specifically aimed at the police officer who has used unlawful violence during the performance of his police duties. For the general offences of violence, such as manslaughter and abuse, are often not focused on the situation in which the police officer acts. This has to be repaired by means of this bill. As has already been said, everyone will recognise that the police have the task of enforcing the rule of law. Sometimes the use of force is inevitable. An investigative officer therefore also has the power to apply violence. But the use of force must only be carried out under strict conditions. Violence can only be used if it is proportionate. Each time a weighting must be carried out which, in the specific case, is the purpose of the use of violence, whether that purpose justifies the use of violence, and whether that objective could not have been achieved in a different, less radical way. That is the case now, and that will also be the case when this bill is adopted. Why is this bill, which, with almost unanimous consent, passed the House of Representatives, now suddenly in this house in the spotlights? Mr. Chairman. My group states this as follows. During the corona pandemic, there is an increasing frequency of demonstrations and outbreaks of riots in the population. We all see images in the media of agents who sometimes use violence to try to enforce the rule of law. Especially with an outsider, those images of police violence often come in hard. Following the death of the American George Floyd, the discussions and demonstrations against racism and police violence were discussed here too, as Mr Meijer mentioned. In the Netherlands, of course, we know the case of Mitch Henriquez, who died in 2015 after an applied neck clamp by agents. This, in part, raises the question as to whether disproportionate violence is being used by the agents involved and whether discriminatory aspects are being taken into account. Are people detained more than average because of their skin colour or other ethnic characteristics? And is any more violence being used against them in such an arrest? For the Minister also acknowledges that the Dutch police force is not free from discrimination and states that this is inadmissible. How do you get rid of ethnic profiling in the internal police organization? What practical measures are needed for this? Can the Minister state what he intends to do about this? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is absolutely in favour of maintaining the rule of law, but that does not mean that my group is critical of the use of force, even if it is applied by agents in the exercise of their duties. Violence against citizens is and continues to be a violation of their fundamental rights. It intervenes deeply in the personal lives of citizens, especially if this breach results in death. The European Court of Human Rights reaffirmed by judgment that an adequate, thorough and expeditious investigation into police violence with a deadly outcome should be carried out every time. In this bill, such a fact-finding is given a separate status. Can the Minister indicate whether this investigation of the facts will differ in substance from the current criminal investigation, subject to the unchanged term "suspected"? Will the final results remain the same at all times? If not, can the Minister indicate what that difference is? Because the image now emerging from a large public in response to this bill is that this fact-finding will take greater account of the status separate from the agent, which may not sufficiently safeguard the independence of the investigation itself. In the media, this bill was even cited as a licence to kill. How does the Minister intend to remove or reduce this social unrest? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Should this fact-finding report show that the investigating officer has made a considerable careless assessment of the use of force, so it is his fault that he violates the instruction of violence with the result that physical injury or death occurs, that agent is punishable and should be prosecuted. In the further reply, the Minister states that Article 372 of the Criminal Code gives the Public Prosecutor the wider possibility to take into account the circumstances of the use of violence and the accusation that the investigating officer concerned is being made in the prosecution decision. Will it not in most cases give the prosecutor a preference to prosecute on the basis of this new Article 372 criminal law rather than prosecution on the basis of the Community crime? My group strongly asks the Minister whether taking the circumstances into account in Article 372 should be read as a kind of mitigating circumstance, because the circumstances of prosecution on the basis of a general crime of violence can be weighed differently and could lead to a different level of punishment. Can the Minister reflect on this? On the one hand, the Minister stresses the need for Article 372, but on the other hand, the further reply shows that this is a small number of cases each year which may lead to prosecution. The Minister mentions the number of 15 to 20 cases. That is why he does not want a shorter period of time with regard to the evaluation, because no conclusion can be drawn from so few cases, according to the Minister. When it comes to so few cases, my group raises the question as to why such a specific adjustment is deemed necessary for this target group, both in criminal law and in criminal proceedings. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The 2019 annual report shows that the police used force during some 14,500 incidents, with a total of more than 27,000 means of violence. This sounds like an impressive figure. It is the first time that all police units have recorded violence in the same way. Keeping up with this every year will create a transparent and objectively measurable picture, which will gain insight or apply more or less violence. Following the answer to the further questions, the Minister indicated that he had asked the police to include the number of deaths by politicians per year in the annual report. My group welcomes this initiative, but would also like to have included an annual report on the cases causing permanent injury. Permanent injury means that the person concerned carries with him the consequences for life. Can the Minister promise that these cases will also be included in the police annual report? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The documents show that the maximum penalty for acts of violence, whether it be Article 372 criminal law or a Community crime, remains the same. However, all proceedings under Article 372 are only brought and dealt with by the Central Netherlands court. 50PLUS wonders whether dealing only with all cases where an agent has exceeded the instructions for violence can or will lead to a certain limitation of the review framework. I mean that the comparison of facts and circumstances with criminal cases, based on the general offences of violence, will almost no longer take place. Does the Minister share the view that the disappearance of this comparison could lead to a tunnel vision? If not, can the Minister explain why this fear is unfounded? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Together with other groups, my group regrets that there is no parliamentary control over the material use of violence itself, laid down in the instructions for office by means of a General Administrative Measure. Like D66 and GroenLinks, 50PLUS would also like to hang a suspension procedure with the AMvB under this bill. Because this bill is linked to the instruction of the office and cannot be separated from it. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. Finally, Mr President. The starting point is that means of violence are not applied to vulnerable groups. But that is not in the instruction, because according to the Minister, it is not always easy to determine whether someone belongs to a vulnerable group. 50PLUS considers that in the vast majority of cases this is indeed visible and therefore calls for these exceptions to be included in the instruction itself. These include children under 12 years of age, older people over 65 and visibly pregnant women. The use of firearms, electric weapons or the use of police dogs against these vulnerable groups should be considered inadmissible. The shocking images during the Zembla broadcast on 11 March of this year showed that control of police dogs leaves much to be desired. They do not always listen to the commands given about the timely release. Both colleagues Recourt and Dittrich pointed to the lack of sound criteria for the employability of the police dog. My group agrees with the questions they have put. Mr. Chairman. Should it appear that, for example, a child under the age of 12 or an older person over 65 has been wrongly used for violence, can this be taken into account in the judgment as an aggravating circumstance? That is, of course, ultimately up to the judge, but I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Mr. Chairman. Since it makes little sense to repeat questions previously asked by other political groups, 50PLUS awaits the answer of the questions in the first period, before making a final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of police violence that concerns people takes place during demonstrations and police action in this area. I am living next to the Concertgebouw and the Museumplein, and have already experienced a lot of things: the climate demonstrations behind the Rijksmuseum, but also the weekly demonstrations against the corona measures. I remember talking to 16-year-old scumbags in front of my door because they threw my daughter's bike on the barricades. But I also remember from the last few weeks that I saw a flower-powering situation in the Museumplein, with all fine ladies with flowers and so on who used their fundamental rights there. Even then, the police acted. That is, of course, a complicated matter. Many of the previous speakers have already mentioned this. Policemen have to make decisions in a split second, often ending up in a split. Sometimes things get out of hand, and then we're dealing with illegal abuse of force. Mr. Chairman. Policemen are ordinary officials, with the exception of carrying a baton, a gun or a police dog. Ordinary people, ordinary civil servants can cross the line. One of my written questions was whether we should deal with these officials so specifically. Because isn't it true that policemen should just accept the risk for that, because they have chosen in their profession that they sometimes violate the standards and that they can be held responsible for that criminally and disciplinaryly? Fortunately, the government agrees, because the Minister's answer was: an official with power of violence is aware of the consequences that his actions may have. That his actions may lead to a disciplinary or criminal investigation is part of this. It is important that his actions are assessed within an appropriate legal framework, in line with his particular position. As far as the criminal route is concerned, the bill provides for this. But my question is addressed to the Minister in particular. Is that the case? 'Cause we're discussing a law here that promises something. I quote from the further reply: "The use of force by the government is deeply affected by the rights of citizens and should therefore be strictly standardised. The new criminalisation will change this." That promise is not being fulfilled. I outline three situations and I wonder how the Minister sees them and whether he will be able to respond to them later. The first situation: in a climate demonstration, a police officer knees down the throat of a 16-year-old student for a long time. She's scared and she's thinking about Floyd's case, which we're all thinking about today. She's already screaming that she can't breathe. The agent goes on for inexplicable reasons, completely disproportionate and thus contrary to the rules applicable to him. Bystanders interfere, and finally the officer is pulled away by a superior of the girl. Thank God she doesn't have any bodily harm, but she's gonna have months of fear. Mr. Chairman. If we adopt this law that the government is presenting to us here, can we say to the bystanders, to the parents of the student and to the girl herself: the penal law protects you from such police violence? The answer is no. Mr. Chairman. I come to another example. In a demonstration against the corona measures, a 75-year-old protester is attacked by a police dog. He's at the front of a group of protesters who haven't followed the order to remove themselves and agreed to behave nonviolently. "Gandhi!" Called the man when the cop with the dog approached him. The dog bit, but fortunately the man wasn't hurt and his pants were only ripped open through the police dog's teeth. The officer had the police dog, in violation of his regulations, carry out an attack on the man. For the same reason, the man had suffered a severe flesh injury. Does the proposed Article 372 of the Criminal Code protect people from such disproportionate and unlawful police violence? The answer is no. Mr. Chairman. I come to a third example. In the event of an arrest in Rotterdam, a police officer sprayed with pepper spray, in a manner not permitted by the regulations from a short distance, to an arrested person who has sat in the back seat of a police car and raging there. We know the footage of the black girl in the United States who was sprayed in a police car by police officers with pepper spray. This can cause serious eye damage, but fortunately that remains out of the Rotterdam case because the arrested person had averted his head at the right time. But it didn't matter much. If these images are on TV in the Netherlands and this minister is asked by a reporter whether such acts in violation of the violence instruction are punishable, what will his answer be? His answer is no. Mr. Chairman. These are three cases of police violence which are clearly contrary to the instruction of violence. But the police officer concerned will not be able to be prosecuted for violating a sentence which the government claims protects against illegal police violence. How can this be explained to society? Although the proposed Article 372 of the Code of Criminal Law is central to the investigation of violence, the agent is only punishable if his actions have a demonstrable physical injury or death. The mere violation of the violence instruction is not punishable. Any person guilty of unlawful abuse of force may proceed with criminal law as long as there is no physical injury. A knee on the throat of a high school student is no problem, as long as you take it off before there are suffocation symptoms. A neck clamp? Same thing. Let that police dog attack, as long as you pull that dog out just in time before he puts his teeth in the flesh. Mr. Chairman. It sounds charged, but that is the criminal law framework provided for by this law. The government considers this to be an improvement, because without the new penalty provision of Article 372 of the Criminal Code, "the legal context specifically applicable to the investigating officer cannot yet be sufficiently taken into account." That context is the violence instruction. That context is that it is not ordinary officials, but officials who are allowed to do a little more than just damage the rights and interests of citizens with government decisions. And that "more" is the use of force. A good law, which is understandable in this context, sets criminal limits to non-compliance with a violent instruction by officials who are allowed to use force, who have been specially trained and appointed for that purpose, and who have accepted the risk of possible prosecution. The violation of the violence instruction always results in injury. The injury consists of having to suffer illegal police violence. Whether or not this also results in physical injury is totally irrelevant. Moreover, where illegal police violence cannot be punished, damage is being done to our society and to the status of the police service, which is responsible for monitoring the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. If officials are out of line, there are three routes for a rule of law that takes it seriously. The first route is that any official who is out of line can face disciplinary punishment if he has failed to do so. The standard provision is: "Failure to perform duties includes both the violation of any rule and the omission or omission of something which a good official should in the same circumstances neglect or do." The disciplinary route is intended to protect the interests of the service. The measures do not protect the citizen, but the prestige of the service. That applies to all officials, whatever their authority. If their absence from duty has also led to damage to the interests of citizens, then the disadvantaged are out of play if they want the official to be dealt with. Discipline measures are an internal matter. The right of declaration and the right of complaint for non-prosecution are only governed by criminal law. I'll get to the other two routes. They're both criminal in nature. The second route is that any official who has crossed the line can also be prosecuted if the unlawful treatment of citizens is covered by a Community offence. We have seen this with officials of the Tax Administration, against whom the Minister suddenly filed a criminal complaint in the supplement case. If an official has used violence against a citizen who suffers injury or even dies, it does not matter whether it is a policeman, a boa or a point of contact, then the ordinary criminal route is followed. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the third route. The third route is the special criminal route for protecting citizens from illegal police violence. Whether or not a Community crime is a crime is irrelevant. Nor is it relevant whether the police officer could also be dealt with under disciplinary civil service law as a result of administrative dysfunction. It is relevant that officials who are in a special position to use violence against civilians should be responsible for violating the rules to be observed in the use of violence, even if there is no physical injury involved. Disadvantaged citizens can then ask for criminal proceedings. If it stays out, they can file a complaint with the court. But that third route, which is required by the rule of law, has not been fully followed by the government here. I come to the end of my speech. In the three examples I have given, the girl with the knee on her neck, the elderly person who was attacked by the police dog and the arrested person who was sprayed up close with pepper spray, are standing at this point without rights. It wasn't criminal and they can't enforce prosecution. Mr. Chairman. I have three questions for the Minister. The government acknowledges that in the three situations I have outlined, the policeman has not acted as a criminal offence. Isn't there a gap in the scheme here? My second question is: what is wrong with considering any action contrary to the instruction of violence as a criminal offence? My third question is: how can it be justified that the victims of the knee on the neck, the police dog and the illegal pepper spray use are denied the right to enforce criminal proceedings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u24	I'd like to come back to those three routes. The first route is a disciplinary investigation. You say that the citizen is not really involved, because that is an internal investigation. Don't you think that, as in the case of lawyers or psychologists or accountants, a formal right of disciplinary action for investigators would be helpful?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u25	I've been thinking about that, too. It is an interesting idea, because it underlines the special position of the policeman or the official with power of violence. It would mean that it would no longer be purely an internal matter, but that citizens who have suffered damage could also present themselves as complaining parties in that procedure. I think that is a route that is certainly passable, but it is not followed in this draft law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u26	You are right, and that is why I had already announced in my term that, depending on the Minister's reply, I might be able to come forward with a motion to see if we can investigate it, so that it can be aligned with those other professions in terms of disciplinary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u27	But then the essential question remains: if you, as the rule of law, think that the violation of the instruction of violence should be punishable, then why, as in this proposal, is this limited only to cases where it can be proven to result in physical injury or death? Why wouldn't you say that breaking the violent instruction at all is supposed to be a criminal offence? In Mr Dittrich's proposal, if I understand correctly, it would no longer be necessary for the violation of the instructions to be punishable by physical injury. If Mr Dittrich says 'no, it will stay that way', then I'll bounce the ball back: but then all violations of the instruction of violence should actually be punishable, regardless of whether there is physical injury.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr Dittrich, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u29	In my term, I have also pointed this out. For example, if a neck clamp is applied, without causing bruising or serious personal injury, it is not covered by the rules in the instruction. In answer to questions from D66 but also from your group, the Minister says: no, it is really only cases where personal injury has been caused. I am sure we can talk about enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you. I call Mr Van Wely on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be brief. Much has already been said about this and the added value is becoming less and less. Mr. Chairman. The current situation does not make a legal distinction between ordinary citizens on the one hand and investigators on the other when it comes to violence. This is, of course, a crooked situation. Agents have a monopoly of violence and must use violence in their activities where appropriate. This bill will put an end to this crooked situation. Investigation officers can be prosecuted in a way other than ordinary citizens if they use force in a way other than permitted by the instruction of violence. In other words, investigators who have used force in the performance of their duties will eventually be given their own place in the Code of Criminal Law. This bill also seeks to prevent the investigating officer from being unduly reluctant to carry out his duties, as he could previously be prosecuted as any other person, despite his extensive task and special role. In addition, lawsuits against investigative officers are placed in a single court, allowing knowledge and experience to be acquired in a centralised manner. This is most likely to benefit legal proceedings. The same applies to the safety of people who rely on police and boas protection. My group therefore believes that this is a good legislative proposal. Pending the Minister's response to the questions of other parties in particular, we are holding a motion in hand in the second term. By the way, that's not a shot in the bow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Wely. Mrs. Veldhoen or Mrs. Baay? Mrs. Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u33	Did I hear Mr Van Wely say that someone was wrongly prosecuted? Did I just hear that there would be unlawful prosecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u34	Well, at least I don't have any of that in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u35	I think I remember you saying that detectives who have used violence are sometimes wrongly prosecuted in community criminal law. That triggered me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u36	I have no memory of that, as is popular to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mrs Baay, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u38	If Mr Van Wely does not remember what he has just said in my opinion, it will stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u39	Perhaps you can read it in the Acts and then perhaps come back to it in the second term, Mrs Baay. Mrs. Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u40	I have a question for Mr Van Wely about the instruction in office. You didn't say much about that. As you said yourself, I'll be brief. I do have a question about that. That instruction extends the use of force that is permitted. Among other things, the taser and the service dog find their place and the vulnerable are no longer excluded. I have a question about democratic control of that instruction. How does your group feel about the fact that neither the Second nor the First Chamber have anything to say about this at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u41	Two things. Firstly, the more we can decide, the more democracy, the better. We are also in favour of the referendum. As far as we are concerned, this can therefore be extended. The second is that we are in favour of proportional violence, whatever that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u42	Good. Thank you. I hear you say that you are also in favour of democratic control of the instruction of the office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u43	It was a little fast. I heard you say at the end: we are holding a motion to change the government's policy. I was not quite clear what this motion is about. Perhaps you could explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you for this question, Mr. Dittrich. We are going to file a motion on bodycams, also in response to your speech indicating that you are in favour of using bodycams by especially enforcers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u45	Interesting. I did say that in my contribution, but I did say something about it. Suppose all those enforcers get a bodycam, good rules must be agreed on how long those images are kept, who has access to them and what they are used for. But if all this is well arranged, the fraction of D66 certainly sees added value in the use of bodycams on a larger scale than is the case today. That's what your motion is about, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u46	Yes. Our group supports your view that privacy is an important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u47	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Mr. Van Wely. I call Mr Rombouts, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. In the village in which I was allowed to grow up, the story was that the already older policeman, who in our small village was pretty much alone, at the time of the report of a fight always went around a block first. After arrival, the fighters had already flown. Later, as mayor of a city with a lively nightlife climate, I am very regularly confronted with the stories of cops who were placed in front of a horde of drunken and drugged-up partyers. Too often cops who didn't step back due to rioting outgoing injuries, sometimes even severe injuries. This is what the bill we are discussing today is about moving forward or backwards from police officers. About identifying a cop who thinks he's done his job as a suspect or as a witness. I can say from my own years of experience, like Mr Meijer, as a corps manager, that it was an alienating experience for motivated, brave agents as a suspect. Cops who didn't look away, stepped back, a block for reason or fled. Such an experience often has an impact on the motivation of the official concerned and his colleagues. And thus for the appeal that we as a society can make to them, to maintain order, to act against injustice and to say no to antisocial or miserable behavior. If a cop does his job well, he must be able to count on the government to support him or her and to support him or her in principle, unless. But Mr. Chairman, this bill is also about the trust of society. Here comes Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u50	Here comes Mr Nicolaï. I can't wait to see what I can imagine. I might have had to go around the block first, I understand. I heard Mr Rombouts say that it affects the motivation of the police officer. I can imagine that, which is why I had asked the government whether there was any data on that. You may have that information, but I've also asked the government. Is there any record of that affecting you? The government's response showed that there is no such data. I have just said in my speech that the government assumes that a police officer is man or woman enough to know that he is running certain risks. That risk also includes the possibility of being considered a suspect. Then what do you have to say to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u51	A lot, but I had also just begun my balanced argument that the importance of the police has just been described. I had now begun the passage on the trust of society in the government and in the police which, of course, should also be involved. Then I said, after my first sentence, "that's where Mr Nicolaï is already coming" and I didn't back down either, Mr Nicolaï, that you're coming. I'm afraid I can't give you the numbers you're looking for. Nor will the Minister be able to give it, because this is about the feelings of police officers they share with their colleagues and with their superiors. There were at least three former police officers in this room this morning and perhaps more. Those people, Mrs Jorritsma, Mr Meijer and I, at least bear witness to the fact that we have seen how much impact it has as a suspect for a policeman who thought he was doing his job; the wrong exceptions you have described really leave it, because I also distance myself from that, the CDA Group has distanced itself from that. But you have to believe us and me and see in my body language that it had a huge impact on those people if they kicked up, were beaten by such a horde, such a drunken and drug-running crowd.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u52	I understand that I have to deal with Mr Rombouts' body language. However, there is no research to show that the motivation of police officers is indeed affected in such a way that, I would say, they could not do their job properly anymore. I note that Mr Rombouts also admits that this has not been proved to be the case either. As a lawyer, Mr Rombouts, we have been talking about disciplinary law. Yeah, that's part of the job. That can turn you upside down, you can also say: that's part of it. But you have other information than me, and I have to do it with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u53	Please continue your argument, Mr. Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. This bill is also about the other side: the confidence of citizens in the government, in the police. The confidence that police officers who deliberately cross the line will be punished. This bill has given rise to great concern for citizens. Nor has the CDA Group escaped. We all who sit here in the Chamber have received a lot of distressed e-mails. My group understands this concern on the part of citizens, especially in view of the reports of abuses, because they are also there, of agents in the recent past. The neck clamp that killed an agent Mitch Henriquez in 2015 in The Hague, the recent footage of police officers on the Malieveld beating a grounded citizen with the baton and having him bite by a police dog at the same time. And more recently, the ethnically profiling apps of Rotterdam agents. Let me be clear, Mr President and Mr Nicolaï: the CDA Group strongly rejects any form of ethnic profiling or discrimination against certain groups of the population and believes that it is necessary to take a firm stand against this. In recent weeks and months, my group would like to hear how the Minister has also addressed this issue to the national police corps leadership. My group has taken note with more than ordinary interest of the Minister's proposal to create a new framework for the use of violence by investigators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u55	Let me return to ethnic profiling, because I have a question on this through the chairman to Mr Rombouts. You say that you are also strongly disassociating or condemning it. Now policy has been formulated by the police, namely 'Policy for All', with a five-step plan, and I have also indicated it in my first contribution. This has also been made known in the intervening period. Now there is also talk, for example by Chief Fred Westerbeke, about setting up a committee to monitor the implementation of that policy. Precisely because policy has had little effect in the past, a committee should now be set up to monitor the roll-out and give advice if this is not enough. What is the CDA's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u56	Of course there must be committees in this country, of course there must be rules. In reply to your question, I would like to say that I believe much more in police campaigns to make people aware of the risks you run in this field. Example behaviour, correction even when needed, more than thinking that with committees, supervision, control, registration things will get better. Above all, people must convince other people that certain things do not belong in our democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u57	But do we have to agree that everything you mention has already happened in the past and that it has not produced much results? You yourself have already talked about ethnic profiling within the police and also about the apps that are, of course, really terrible to read. Should we not then note that there is a need for an additional step, that there is a need to monitor the way in which it is rolled out? Can we just say "we're making policies and we're rolling them out and then we'll see how that works out"? Shouldn't we just have a diverse committee to ensure that it actually gets results now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u58	I share your concern on this point, and I am going to say something about it in a moment, when I am talking about the macho culture that exists within our police organisation and which I believe should be addressed. But what I also want to say is that I do not believe in a society, not even a rule of law, in which everything can be regulated with committees and control systems, because these are systems built on mistrust. I think that now, across the street from this Binnenhof, we need to work on a different administrative culture, based on trust, where the government actively wants to tackle ethnic profile. But not only through systems that have to be managed, but mainly because people continue to convince people, and I mean that police leaders continue to convince police officers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u60	Finally. I fully agree with you that restoring confidence is extremely important, but I would nevertheless like to ask you the following question. Is not the establishment of such a committee for a very large part of our population a sign of restoration of confidence, that it is being seen: it is being strengthened once again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u61	Finally, Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u62	Yeah, and that's what we do in the First Chamber, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u63	I shall continue with the question put by Mr Veldhoen. You said at the beginning that there could not be enough committees. Then you say: a committee for a committee, we should not do that. I have to think about Mr Omtzitz's contribution to the other side of the House about power and counterpower and that the butcher does not approve his own meat. It is precisely on this very sensitive point, which the Minister also takes up well, and it is really not a committee about a committee that it seems to me to be a sign of strength that you have an independent committee or a number of independent persons looking at the implementation of this important policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u64	I have all the time and desire to continue this debate, but I do not think it is about the violence instruction anymore. It is more about ethnic profiling and about committees that have to work on it. I just read half an hour ago the summary of Pieter Omtzigt's book. So I know exactly what he's trying to do. I believe that this is about power and opposition in our democratic rule of law system, and it is not about ethnic profiling or the subject we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u65	I have followed the debate in the Senate and I am replacing my colleague Recourt. This is also about the context in which this bill is discussed. I don't think there's any problem with the bill, but with the environment. People need to respect and trust the police. I heard you as an experienced expert talking about the police side. Society will also have to have a strong feeling or strong conviction that the police are indeed acting unbiasedly. Hence the Minister's proposal to take a good look at that, so that the bill lands in a context that is also good for the police. That is what Mrs Veldhoen's question is about. If we want to do this properly and restore confidence, we need to ensure that independent people can look at the implementation of policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u66	I'm kind of wondering why I'm asking these questions. I have started with the importance that we need to organise this properly for the people who need to protect our freedom: the police. I had just begun my first sentence, that citizens on the other hand should also be able to count on a government and public servants who do their job properly. I think that at the end of this debate we can agree that there has been a proper balance in the regulations that are before us, both the legislative proposal and the instructions for office. Maybe we'll still disagree on whether that ministry instruction should be seen here before she gets out the door. I will say something about this in a moment, but I wish to say, from my experience as a corps manager and even as a growing boy in a village, that what the Minister is presenting here deserves the support of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u68	We'll get back to you later when it comes to the office instruction itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u69	Thank you. You continue your argument, Mr. Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with: let me start with the conclusion. The CDA Group agrees with this proposal because it considers that it strikes a good balance between the protection of citizens against whom violence has been used and the protection of cops to whom we, as a society, have exceptionally granted the right to apply violence. So I ask myself, does my group not have any criticism of the proposal? Are there no concerns within my group about the development of this new framework? Criticism isn't really a problem, you'll have to worry about it. These are not so much the legal frameworks and the instructions themselves. The cabinet has given a very serious response to the comments of the Council of State, for example, concerning the deletion of the right to search houses and offices. Despite this, my group remains concerned that the new criminalisation in Article 372 will in practice lead to an increase in the criminal liability of detectives who have used violence. That is why we ask the Minister to back up here today on this side of the Binnenhof why he is so convinced that this fear is unfounded. Our concerns also concern the macho culture within the police, which we, as a society, regularly hear about in the media. This calls for a permanent attention from leaders in our police organisation to awareness-raising, exemplary behaviour, training and correction, because society has a right to be properly investigated about the use of force by police officers and whether they have acted in accordance with the rules. As far as my group is concerned, the new framework created by this proposal is balanced. On the one hand, a charge under Article 372 of the Van Dam amendment cannot, in the alternative, include another crime. On the other hand, in this way, only a limited infringement of the prosecution monopoly of the Office is committed. Moreover, in another charge, another crime can be charged, why citizens can apply to the prosecution, without the "ne bis in idem" principle standing in their way. Mr. Chairman. My group believes that the triptych specific grounds for exclusion, criminalisation in the event of violation of the instruction of violence and investigation of the facts is a good workable balance between the importance of society and the importance of the investigators who have been given the power to use violence, if necessary, by and for our society. The grounds for exclusion shall enable the official who uses force in the lawful performance of his duties and in accordance with his instruction to be dismissed from legal proceedings. The so-called fact-finding will hopefully give the citizen affected a start of confidence that the incident will be seriously looked at. If the same citizen does not agree with the outcome of this investigation, the possibility of requesting the prosecution of the agent is still open. During the investigation of the facts, the defendant will be granted the same rights as a suspect in an investigation. This is a good thing. Furthermore, because of the Nemo-Tenetur principle, a suspect does not have to cooperate in his own prosecution. Mr. Chairman. My group, I would like to stress that there is no need for a preliminary procedure for the instruction of the office. An instruction is an instruction from the executive to the officials who actually do the executive work. That coat doesn't fit us as the First Chamber. The government has to rule and we have to control her. The fact that 225 Members of Parliament are on one side and on the other side of the Binnenhof is becoming more and more frequent, but that does not make it appropriate, let alone efficient. However, my group needs immediate and complete disclosure of the instructions and amendments and additions to them. Mr. Chairman. The special task of the police requires a special position in the Code of Criminal Procedure for those who exercise this task: the task of using force in certain cases and sometimes even having to use it. The present bill does justice to that particular place of police in our state system. That is why the CDA Group will wholeheartedly support this bill. She looks forward to answering her questions and would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to organise the evaluation requested by motion in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u72	I have hesitated for a long time if I would ask this question, but I do it from the pure role that we have in this Chamber, because I heard Mr Rombouts mention a number of examples, including Malieveld. We all have ideas and emotions in those images, but I think there's still an investigation going on right now. The Public Prosecutor's Office is investigating what has been going on there and whether it should be followed up. However, I can hear Mr Rombouts draw his conclusion here and strongly renounce it on behalf of the CDA. That evokes emotion in me, too. I do not want to justify police brutality, if that has been the case. But shouldn't we also have the role of waiting carefully for that investigation before we judge it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u73	I would like to thank the honourable Member for this correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u74	On that last point about the front and control: I find that a little strange. We all agree that the police need clear instructions. I have heard you say a number of times in your contribution that a number of things need to be changed in the culture of the police. You say that the task of this Chamber and that of the other side is control. But control will also take place in advance. You have read Mr Omtzigt's book, which I have also read with great interest. Mr Omtzigt, but also Mr Tjeenk Willink, say that we should all be interested in taking our task seriously. That certainly applies to the First Chamber, when it comes to the feasibility of rules. Quite a lot of questions have been asked about the office instruction. Well, then, as a chamber, wouldn't you like to get involved in that ministry instruction through a veil, especially on this sensitive issue? I don't see any consistency in your view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr President, you are such a wonderful man. You allow my honourable colleague to ask this question, and I may go further on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u76	If you'll keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u77	For this is very dear to me. It is where the informant, I suppose, started today: thinking with the political groups across the street about the new governance culture. You're saying you don't really understand that I do want ex-post control and not ex-ante control. I don't think you can control it in advance. You can only give in advance what you want the government to do. That is clearly something else. It is the case that parliaments, municipal councils and provincial states can give something in advance to directors who do the work on a daily basis, and can check afterwards whether it has been carried out as they wish. And if they don't, they're gonna have consequences. That's really how I see it here. I also think that in the new administrative culture, the chairman, stop me if I go too far, which I assume is going to be made on the main lines on the other side, because that is not in a day or what to do, not only will there be room for what will be better arranged, but also for self-reflection on the role that the Lower House should and should not play, but also this First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I'm going to interrupt you now. I see two more interrupts. I would ask you to confine yourself to the legislative proposal before us, of course within a reasonable framework. Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u79	The whole point of your colleague on the other side and of Mr Tjeenk Willink is correct that the House of Representatives has often, by means of firm agreements under coalition pressure and perhaps also not to contradict its own minister, been too reluctant to take a critical look at such a ministerial arrangement, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u80	What is your question, Mrs. Fox?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u81	That's what we're talking about. We can take a number of steps to actually change that governance culture, including using the instrument of the veil, which we use more often. Why is this point, which in itself will not have so many feet in the earth because we are used to it, then not to this important subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u82	Finally, Mr. Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u83	I shall now confine myself to the question of whether we should not see the instruction of office before it goes out. I have emphasized with all my words and with dictation that I believe that this is an instruction of office. That is an instruction from those in charge to those in office. In this case, therefore, that is an instruction from the government to police officers. That is where we must leave that power. We shouldn't play Lower House in the Upper House, and the Lower House shouldn't play government. That's the point I want to make here. To you too: giving things to the Minister in advance is fine, but checking afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u84	I don't think you'll agree entirely. Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u85	Finally, there is quite a lot in the new instruction. That's what the debate was about. Then it's not weird that you want to talk about that as a representative of the people. But I think my colleagues would like to continue with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u86	There's still time for two brief interruptions. Just one question, please. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u87	Let's talk about the office instruction. I understand that Mr Rombouts says it is an instruction. But there could also have been above: Further settlement of police violence, implementation of the principles laid down in the Police Act...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u88	That's not above it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u89	No, that's not above it. But couldn't everything that's in the instruction of the office simply have been settled in a more detailed way? Did the CDA say we should talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u90	If, if, if. Ash is burnt peat. Mr Nicolaï: we differ not only today, but also at other times in the year of opinion on what the role of this Chamber is. If I understand correctly, the group chairmen in this House are going to discuss the role with the chairman today. I see it so that we should look in the mirror at who we want to see as the First Chamber. Not everything the government has to do, we need to see it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mr. Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u92	I think I can go along with that. But what we are dealing with here is rules that affect the fundamental rights of citizens. They've been established, and whether or not they're called office instruction or further arrangement, I don't think it matters for our Chamber. We assess the extent to which the fundamental rights of citizens are affected when those rules that have been adopted are respected. Isn't that the primary task of a Second Chamber and a First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u93	We're talking about an instruction today. As far as I'm concerned, that's the government. We are almost talking about it in advance. We can control it as much as we want. In the new governance culture that needs to be developed in this square kilometre, I call on everyone to stay especially close to their own core business, their own task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u94	Still on this subject: if you look at the instructions on the regulations, you will see that the Dutch Legal Committee on Human Rights points out that this instruction gives very far-reaching powers to the government. As far as they are concerned, this should be subject to parliamentary control. What do you think of that argument? You say it's an instruction. But if you look at the designation of regulations, there is certainly a basis to say: these are powers that need parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u95	I fully support, and do not ignore, that it should be subject to parliamentary control, but only after that instruction has been written.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u96	But how do you see it? In what way can Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u97	If you see incidents or behavior within the police organisation that is not appropriate in the coming years, you will call the Minister to account, insisting on changing the instructions for office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u98	Mrs Veldhoen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u99	Then I must express myself more carefully: I am talking about a veil, with which you have parliamentary control in advance. Of course, that's different from what you're saying here. Another point I would like to make is the fact that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u100	Brief question, Mrs Veldhoen. You're gonna have to press the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u101	I'll leave it at that. I'll get back to you on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u102	Following on from the previous speakers, with whom I agree that the Chamber should be able to discuss such an instruction in advance: how do you appreciate that this instruction, as you stress, goes first to the Council of State for an opinion or instruction? Then why should the Court not be able to discuss that opinion in advance before that instruction takes effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u103	The great state judge Dittrich knows that the First Chamber is not the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u104	Thank you for giving me all kinds of qualities; I do not change that. But the question remains, of course, the following. You act as if an instruction of office is simply an executive thing from the employer to officials, but advice is being sought. Why would it be such a strange idea that the Second and/or the First Chamber will comment on it before it enters into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u105	I repeat: the government must rule and we, the parliament, are there to control it, with 225 MPs on this and other side of the Binnenhof. Although it is becoming more and more frequent, it is not yet appropriate or efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u106	Finally, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u107	Sometimes the well is muffled when the calf has drowned. It would be very good if Parliament, the Second and the First Chamber, could not only give away things in advance, but actually control them, after which a regulation would come into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u108	I hope the policeman gets to that calf in time, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u109	Thank you. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u110	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to anticipate matters and congratulate Mr Talsma on his maiden speech, which follows immediately after my speech. Mr. Chairman. First of all, our group would like to express its appreciation for the many police officers who have to operate daily, often under difficult conditions and at a moderate rate of pay, on the frontline of the increasingly tough Dutch society. In this context, I would like to quote the words of Mr Tjeenk Willink, who has just visited the interruptions in his letter of last night: giving confidence is a prerequisite for confidence. I think that applies to this discussion as well. Mr. Chairman. The bill we are debating today introduces a legal framework for assessing the use of violence by investigators. In general, this legislative proposal consists of three parts. Firstly, there will be a specific penalty exclusion ground for investigators who have used violence in the lawful exercise of their duties and who have acted in accordance with the rules in force. The proposal provides for the criminalisation of violations of the violence instruction. That is the second aspect. The third aspect is the creation of a legal framework within which the use of investigative powers can be investigated for the use of force by an investigative officer, without the investigation officer being regarded as a suspect of a criminal offence. Mr. Chairman. We often see bad legislative projects in this Chamber, and our group does not hesitate to point out to this House and to the government if that is the case. But that is not the case here. As far as our group is concerned, this legislative proposal is a well thought out and considered necessary modernisation of the existing legislation. Well, that's a good thing to say. This bill does more justice to the position of the investigative officer exercising force in the rightful ministry of his duties. An investigative officer who lawfully applies the violence instruction is no longer automatically considered a suspect. In doing so, recourse must be had to the grounds for the exclusion of the sentence laid down in Article 42 of the Code of Criminal Law, whereas the usual investigation by the National Criminal Court may be initiated on the basis of the new legal framework. As far as our group is concerned, that is an improvement on the current situation. Investigation officers acting professionally and lawfully in the use of violence should not be regarded as a suspect by law. It has already been recalled by others: society is quite hardened and the investigators who have to operate in the front line on a daily basis should not therefore be regarded as a suspect if they have applied violence in a legitimate manner. Article 7 of the Police Act legitimizes the use of force when the intended purpose justifies it and the objective cannot be achieved in any other way. The action of the Dutch police is generally characterised by restraint, with the exception of a number of very serious incidents, especially in comparison with many other countries. Violence can only be used if other less significant means are not sufficient in the given case. The way in which violence is used must always be proportionate, proportionate and reasonable and moderate. These many considerations have to be made regularly under great pressure of time in a split second by investigators in often rapidly escalating situations. Mr. Chairman. I come to the legal framework for investigating the use of force by detective officers. It is, of course, very important that a thorough investigation is carried out if the monopoly of violence is applied, especially if it results in injury or, worse still, death. Transparency and independence are very important here. This is crucial for the trust of society in the functioning of the police. Therefore, research is always carried out by the Rijksrecherche. This bill introduces into the Code of Criminal Procedure an investigative framework, to which I have already referred, within which the National Criminal Court can exercise investigative powers for the purpose of fact-finding of violence by an investigative officer, without the need for the investigating officer to be considered a suspect. We then talk about cases where there is no reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the treatment of criminal proceedings against detectives on the basis of this law. It is a question of concentrating such criminal proceedings in the Central Netherlands court, not only because of the limited number of annual cases, but also so that specific knowledge can be built up in this way and this can be concentrated. That seems to be a good idea for our group in general. For example, look at the experiences with the Enterprise Room, where specialised and concentrated knowledge building has also taken place. However, the Council of State advised that it refrain from doing so. Is there still a concentration of these cases in the Central Netherlands court? Or did the Minister, following the example of the Council of State, abandon this? We would like to receive an explanation from the Minister. I'm rounding up. Our group considers the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure regarding the use of violence by detective officers to be an adequate and proportionate modernisation of the current legislation. We therefore intend to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, I will give the floor to Mr Talsma, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Mr Talsma will speak his maiden speech. I would remind Members that maiden speeches do not interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mr President, thank you very much. "Watchful and benevolent." Under that motto, a couple of concepts with otherwise excellent biblical papers, women and men of the national police are engaged 24 hours a day in the exercise of their legal function, the effective enforcement of the law and the provision of assistance to those who need it. And in the spirit of that motto, officials of the Royal Marechaussee and the special investigation services are committed to the same purpose. There is a reason why the Police Act states "actual enforcement of the rule of law." Sometimes this enforcement must take shape, and there are even situations in which the use of force is inevitable. To this end, the government has the monopoly of violence, in the Christian tradition also referred to as the "sword power." That swordpower is given solely to promote rights and justice in society and because the exercise of the swordpower can lead to an infringement of fundamental rights, such as the right to life and the right to physical integrity, its standardisation is crucial. Speaking of violence by the government must never be simplifying or cheap, but this is the case again these days. Many of the cases of violence have been discussed in the United States, but also in its own country, to which there has been an appalling response. At other times, such as in the run-up to the turn of the year and around what the "coron abhorrents" are called, there was a lot of support for government action, even when violence was needed. It illustrates the urgency of what we are doing here today, because both the citizen and the direct object of the violence or the direct object of criminal behaviour by others against whom an official must act by force, as well as the investigating officer who can find himself in a situation in which the use of violence has become inevitable, have the right to protection through as clear a legal framework as possible. For about fifteen years as a prosecutor, of which recently several years as a national police officer, I have dealt in many different cases with people who have been involved in violence in a wide variety of ways, victims or survivors, shooters, colleagues, bystanders, researchers, and over and over again I was impressed by the enormous impact that such an incident of violence had on all those involved and how thorough, independent and decisive research and assessment are important for the legitimacy and confidence of public action. The starting point of the existing legislation is that the official is deemed to have lawfully exercised his powers until such time as legal doubts arise. Therefore, the official is initially regarded as a witness and, where appropriate, subsequently follows the tilting moment to the status of suspect. The legislative proposal before us contains three main elements that we have heard before, namely the grounds for exclusion, a separate criminalisation and also the investigation of the facts. My group supports this line and appreciates the formulation of the new grounds for exclusion and the new sentence. They provide a strong backup to any official who has used legitimate violence, they eliminate the need for the use of loaded terms such as manslaughter, aggravated assault or an attempt to do so in cases where that flag does not cover the cargo and they keep the possibility of continuing to use those terms when the flag does cover the cargo. In this respect, my group believes that the legislative proposal contributes both to the protection of the interests of citizens and to the protection of those of the investigators involved. There have been several fears that this bill will lead to more criminal prosecutions of investigators. The Minister has repeatedly contradicted this, underlining that this is certainly not the thrust of the legislative proposal. The latter is crystal clear to my group, but it can hardly be seen in itself as supporting the statement that what is not intended is not going to happen either. The future will show how the number of prosecutions is developing. Of course, it is conceivable that, because of the other substantive focus of the factual investigation combined with a good balance between investigative powers and sufficient safeguards for the investigating officer, this bill will lead to an increase in the number of investigations carried out on the basis of the use of force. My group realizes that this may initially be viewed with some caution by investigators, but would not necessarily find such an increase in the field of legal protection, but also of the legitimacy and support of police action difficult, provided that speed can be guaranteed. This will have to be explicitly involved in the evaluation, as well as the question of whether the National Criminal Court and the VIK, Security, Integrity and Complaints Divisions of the police are adequately equipped in terms of content and human strength. Mr. Chairman. Before submitting some more specific questions to the Minister, I would like to mention the phenomenon of 'violin instruction'. This is because it is at the heart of the assessment of whether or not a particular use of violence was lawful. It is therefore essential to the legal protection of both citizens and investigators. In this context, I recall that the Council of State subtlely but strikingly noted that the provisions in the instruction of office, the Police Act and the Law on Special Investigation Services which contain the standardisation of the use of force do not excel in precision. The Minister makes the choice not to give detailed deployment criteria in the instruction, but to allow the official himself, in any specific situation that passes the defined limit for use of force, to carry out a thorough assessment of proportionality and subsidiarity. That is the choice I must admit the charm of brevity and flexibility, but that is not the reason the Council of State proposed. Does the Minister agree with me and why, by way of derogation from the opinion of the Council of State, has he chosen this line? As far as my group is concerned, the choice of brevity and flexibility must not lead to the removal of investigative officers from action in the absence of legal back-up and from the fear of being prosecuted or more convictions for breach of the instructions of office because, in the absence of certainty, investigative officers make their own assessment which, in the case of ex post evaluation, is not subject to criminal law. This is all the more true because conviction for a criminal offence can also have far-reaching consequences for civil servants in a legal and other sense. Access to, accuracy and foreseeable standards of use of violence is also essential for the legal protection of citizens. Even in such a way that it affects the principle of legality. I cannot understand the fact that the Minister does not consider the other extreme, namely trying to close everything down, but here is an extremely vulnerable point which weighs heavily on my group, with all the appreciation that is also attached to the main line of the proposal. Does the Minister also recognise this vulnerability and how does he support investigators in it? I would like to give a direct shot: this dilemma requires a very thorough, repeated and intensive training on the interpretation and elaboration of ultimately vague standards such as proportionality and subsidiarity. And not only in obvious weather conditions, but also in the case of arrests, demonstrations and so on. A training involving the line in the most up-to-date case law. For the sake of clarity, I am not so much concerned with physical application, in the sense of concrete drills and skills in the use of means of violence, but primarily with a balancing exercise. In other words, not the question of whether you shoot, but whether you shoot or not. And that goes considerably further than what I read in the Minister's response to the further report, namely: "When exercising the use of force, we are always trained to take account of the violence instruction. The principles of proportionality and subsidiarity are part of the instruction of violence and are therefore always an element in training the use of violence." As far as I am concerned, the words 'infamous', 'infamous' and 'element' give the consideration of using force wrongly a secondary status. Can the Minister promise that and in what way the intended balancing exercise will have a permanent and prominent place in the periodic professional skills training? And that there is also time and budget available for this? Mr. Chairman. As I have said, I would like to make a few points to the Minister on behalf of my group. Then I will start with the fact-finding, with the question of whether the results of that fact-finding can be used by the prosecutor without any limitation in any subsequent investigation. In today's practice, the distinction between disciplinary and criminal investigations sometimes leads to discussion, so my group considers it very important for the feasibility of this to be ready to go. In the investigation of the facts, my second point is that the official has the rights and guarantees that a suspect also has in the criminal proceedings. I would like to hear from the Minister how the civil servant's right of silence relates here to, for example, the obligation to ban Article 152 et seq. Sv. For example, there is the case that violence has been used in an arrest and the investigating officer should make a report of arrest. Thirdly, the merger clause in the legislative proposal, which led to cases of abuse of force being assessed exclusively by the Central Netherlands Court. I can honestly say that my group is not convinced of the desirability, let alone the need for this provision. Indeed, legal practice sometimes reveals very different judgments at first sight in more or less similar cases, but this does not distinguish such cases from other criminal cases. Nor is the argument that the assessment of such cases requires very specific expertise convincing. Because if that were the case, perhaps the Minister could have sought a parallel with, for example, military criminal justice, where a military member is a member of the court. That choice is expressly not made by the Minister. And, let's be honest, very unusual or complicated standards do not contain the violent use of criminal law. For this reason, I would ask the Minister to reflect once again on the presence of a supporting ground for the proposed concentration. As a result of the Van Dam amendment adopted, the bill has been extended to Article 261a Sv, which alternatively, cumulatively or alternatively charges the same fact under another description of the offence. My group regrets this legislative intervention in the majestic decision-making area. As far as we are concerned, it is indeed a restriction on the principle of opportunity for which alternatives would have been perfectly conceivable and of which, above all, my group has not proved its practical relevance. Does the Minister include the impact of this limitation in the evaluation? Mr. Chairman. Our late colleague Willem Witteveen once described the law as "a work of art, built in language." In preparing for membership of this Chamber, I read that the Senate has often called for linguistic aspects in proposed legislation to be taken into account. In this tradition, I say modestly, I would like to point out that the bill in the new Article 42 (1) Sr speaks of "task" and in the rest of the bill repeatedly about "function." That this is not entirely consistent is one thing, but, I ask the Minister, where has the beautiful word'service' remained in the existing legislation? Surely that is much more meaningful to say that an official is not just carrying out work, but has been placed in a public service and in that sense is also serving society? Many policemen do not call themselves "servants" without due pride, and as I mentioned at the beginning of my contribution, even the motto of the police contains the word "servant." In short, as far as I am concerned, I warmly recommend adaptation. Finally, Mr President. I started my contribution by quoting the motto of the police. I would like to end by expressing the hope that this bill will lead to a normalisation of the use of violence that will reflect both the wishes and expectations of citizens and of investigators in the spell of arms of the Royal Marechaussee: 'Without fear and without blame'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied Dutch law at Utrecht University. After your graduation, you started working as a military lawyer at the Ministry of Defense. You also took the initial training as an officer at the Royal Marine Institute in Den Helder. After two years at the Department of Defense, you made the switch to Justice, when you started at the Stichting Studiecentrum Voorzorging as a judicial official in training. From 2007 to 15 days ago, you recalled that yourself, you were a district attorney. You quit your job at the state's attorney's office when you became a member of the First Chamber. You were, among other things, a coordinating district attorney for state detectives at the National Park. You also remained active with the Department of Defense as a prosecutor at the Ministry's mobile court. Politically active you were already from 1997 to 2000 as a member of the national government of the RPF youth, and later as a council member for RPF/GPV and ChristenUnion in Utrecht. You also worked for some time as an employee of the city council group in Utrecht and as a policy officer of the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the Christian Union. In addition to your work, you are very interesting in the context of this debate - including author and editor of the Manual Firearms and Weapons Total, but also chairman of the College of Church Rents of the Protestant Church in The Hague and volunteer for the Red Cross. In connection with this latter position, you recently received the Red Cross COVID-19 reminder medal as a thank you for your commitment during the corona pandemic. As a coordinating prosecutor for state detectives, you had to deal in practice with the codes to which today's bill adds a new framework. In Opportuun, the magazine of the Public Prosecutor's Office, you said in 2018 that investigations into policemen are difficult for everyone and that you understand their suspicions when they are suddenly called a suspect or a witness. You also said: "It is also difficult for us officers, because we work closely with police officers in many cases. We feel related: officers are also an investigator themselves." How appropriate, then, is your maiden speech to this bill? Congratulations again. We look forward to your further contributions. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that I can congratulate you, of course, at a distance of 1.5 metres. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-3.u114	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
