ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1	We shall now begin the debate. I do not want to limit the number of interruptions, given the nature of the debate and the fact that there are many directors present. But I would ask you to keep the interruptions short and concise, so without any introduction. I'm really gonna stick to that. I will also monitor proportionality. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Lying, withholding information, trying to silence the Chamber, taking out critical MPs. Sharing information with the coalition, but not with the opposition and thus wanting to delete the supervisory role of the Chamber. The minutes of the Council of Ministers show the image of a bunch of powermen. Power pals who conspired every Friday afternoon and did everything to maintain their power, for themselves and the senior officials. And they were ruthless. We know this governance culture mostly from the Ruttedoctrine, but he wasn't alone. They were all in on it. All of them, without exception. While this cabinet was playing these dirty and criminal games, the parents who were the victims of the premium crime were trampled, tortured and tortured. There was discrimination by the government and inhumane violence. Possession was taken away. Lives are ruined. People are driven to suicide. And what was this cabinet doing? Not helping those people. Not by stopping the injustice. Not by compensating for the damage. This government was in the process of covering up the suffering and keeping the MPs short who brought the suffering to light. "I put a lot of time into sensitizing Omtzigt," said Hoekstra. "We need to frame the opinion of MPs," said Kaag. "It is by no means acceptable that coalition groups have a strong opinion," says Van Nieuwenhuizen. "Government members need to be treated more critically," Koolmees said. And Rutte nodded enough, knowing that the entire cabinet had copied the Ruttedoctrine. Mr. Chairman. What arrogance. What dictatorial traits, or as Mr Omtzig said here: what a banana monarchy. Does the Chamber control the government or does the government control the Chamber? Under this cabinet, the Netherlands has become a sham democracy; so much is clear. And share information with the Chamber, in accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution? No, no, no, no, no, The cabinet didn't do that either. Don't tell that room anything. They're often there for bacon and beans. Over and over again, the Chamber didn't get the information she asked for. Time and time again, crucial information was withheld. The memo-Palms: not received three times. Work instructions to keep documents from the courthouse. Notes in which people were labeled as fraud. They're all rigged. "Let's decide together what information the Chamber gets and which one doesn't," said Snel. "Deck as much as possible, because maybe more things will come to light," cried Koolmees. "Let me help you to share as little information as possible with the Chamber so you can get away with it," said Minister Grapperhaus. And "No, we're not sending a complete timeline to the room." Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has broken the law and has thereby seriously damaged parliamentary democracy. This cabinet has caused incredibly much suffering and pain to the tens of thousands of parents and their children through its actions. If those ministers and secretaries of state had listened to the MPs better and more quickly, we could have avoided much suffering. Mr. Chairman. That is inexcusable and calls for decisive action by the representatives of the people to restore order. I would therefore ask you to allow me to table a motion in the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u3	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the minutes released show that the government has deliberately informed the Chamber incomplete, incorrect and timely for political reasons and that this is contrary to Article 68 of the Constitution;]] [[having noted that the minutes released show that ministers in the Councils of Ministers have spoken on several occasions about the opposition of MPs, the sensitisation of a Member of Parliament and the "framework" of critical MPs;]] [[Whereas this is extremely damaging as it suggests that critical members of the Chamber should be removed;]] [[Whereas, in the light of, inter alia, the case of increases in public confidence and the strengthening of the role of the Chamber as a counterpower to the Government, it is an urgent task;]] [[Considering that this has seriously damaged citizens' confidence in government and parliamentary democracy;]] [[expresses confidence in the entire cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to vote on this in the first term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u6	Your message is clear. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. The review in the minutes of the Council of Ministers confirmed by whom the Netherlands is governed. A political mafia gang headed by an unreliable liar as Prime Minister who, as we already knew, wanted to get rid of a critical MP named Omtzigt to a position elsewhere. The man who called interrogation MPs indecent and also a critical MP of his own party silenced her, as we read in the minutes, "to point out the importance of unity within the coalition." Probably found a chopped-off horse's head in her bed, because on the list of the VVD she didn't appear after that. We also read that CDA ministers Hoekstra and De Jonge have invested a lot of time and energy in the sensitization or muzzling of colleague Omtzigt. How fake can it get? Hoekstra, who recently called Omtzigt here in the Chamber a 24-carat MP, turns out to have just betrayed him. Instead of helping Ommzigt get the truth out of the table, he tried to shut him up. Shame on you, Mr. Hoekstra. And that's the way it is. Where tens of thousands of innocent people have been criminalised, ruined in the case of the government, Rutte III is trying to keep things small, not set precedents, lie to the Chamber, withhold information and silence critical MPs. The minutes also show the true face of D66. D66 Secretary of State Quickly summons coalition spokesmen to keep their mouths shut. Minister Koolmees appears to be a very scary man who wants activist MPs on the mat to shut them up. Minister Ollongren wants critical MPs to be more restrained and therefore to behave more like puppets. And Mrs Kaag? It should have stayed in Niger, because it seems that it wants to frame Members of Parliament, as if the Constitution does not exist. D66 appears to be a party full of liberal, freedom-limiting and MP-abiding opportunists. But according to the Prime Minister, the minutes show nothing inaudible. The truth is, however, that the Minutes reflect a Council of Ministers full of incompetent scared people, narcissists, selfish people, who were mainly trying to save their own asses instead of solving the problems of the victims of the surcharge affair. In the meantime, the Chamber was denied the information requested from the approved Omtzigt motion. There was no complete facts. That was deliberate, deliberate and politically motivated. Because that would only have more far-reaching consequences for other files, we read. In other words, it's gonna cause even more trouble and cost more money. Grapperhaus proposes to join Hoekstra in thinking about how to get away with it. But in the end, the entire Council of Ministers agrees. That's a criminal offence. The deliberate failure to comply with the obligation to provide information under Article 68 of the Constitution is a criminal offence. The rulers must therefore all answer to the Supreme Court. That procedure has now begun. I'll let them all go to jail! Mr. Chairman. It is quite clear that confidence, the restoration of confidence in politics, will not succeed while Rutte cum suis is still there. As long as they're there, nothing's gonna change. No thinner coalition agreement, no discussion about power and counterpower, will do nothing as long as we as the House of Representatives let us mess with us. As long as we don't show our teeth. Is the Chamber lame again today or finally lion? Is it a real parliament or another fake parliament? Now we finally get up and say as a room: "Stop! Here we draw a line. Enough is enough. We don't accept this. A cabinet that knowingly withholds information from us, that lies to us, that deceives us, that intimidates and brutalizes MPs, wants to shut up, that we as House of Representatives no longer accept!" Is this the day we're gonna show you that? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Our country, our democracy and all those innocent victims of the premium affair deserve a Chamber that bites off like a lion and deserves a cabinet without Rutte and his gang. That's why they need to leave and there must be a new election soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. On the basis of what Mr Wilders said about the charge, the procedure has indeed started. The second stage, when it comes to the indictment that is addressed to the entire cabinet, is that the cabinet comes with a response. A deadline has also been set for this, so know that the procedure has been initiated. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The minutes of the Council of Ministers are secret, and we all understand that, considering that a minister should be able to suggest something or that there is talk about the relationship with other governments. We are doing this because we also have confidence that these politicians will handle it well. But when you see that trust is being used, or is being abused in this case, to cover things up, to cover things up instead of solving people's problems, you get a break of faith. I have a lot to say and to ask today, but at least two things I would like to know about the cabinet. The first is: why not earlier action by this cabinet? If the questions that Pieter Omtzigt had asked regarding a phone call he received from the lawyer Eva González Pérez were answered honestly, we wouldn't be here. If the cabinet had taken the National Ombudsman's report seriously and intervened, we would not be here. If there had only been one person in that entire Council of Ministers, one person who had beaten the fist on the table and said, "No, we're going to solve these people's problems now," we wouldn't be standing here. That is not even the worst thing that we are standing here today, the worst thing is that the misery for all those people, those families, those children, has gone on unnecessarily long. My second question is: where else does this play? We can see from the minutes that these problems, namely innocent people who are mangled by the government, who are unjustly accused of being a fraud, who are being crushed, are wider than what we see at surcharges. Mr Koolmees even says in the Council of Ministers: pay attention, boys, beware, we must prevent it from becoming a precedent, so it will be even wider, because it may even be wider than the Tax Office, wider than UWV. Mr. Chairman. Today is the moment for the cabinet to clarify this. We want to know how many people are in trouble. Where is that the case? At which organizations? What's going on right now? What does the Cabinet know that the Chamber doesn't yet know? Then today is the day to clarify that. Mr. Chairman. You don't just have to ask for trust, you have to earn trust. When I hear the Prime Minister talking about his radical ideas about openness, I wonder what that's worth if you haven't intervened all this time. I heard Mrs Kaag say in the debate: 'here we separate'. Then I wonder what that's worth. If you've rolled out a path together all this time, and you've crossed that path together, what's it worth? Mr Hoekstra said in the interviews of the interrogation committee that it was due to critical MPs that they were sitting there now, that it was at all on the table. Then I wonder what that is worth, when we read in the minutes of the Council of Ministers things like "sensitising" Members of Parliament. Critical MPs had to be silenced. Every time it was about the imaging, the imagery over solving problems for people. Mr. Chairman. I think that might be the worst thing about this. In the summer of 2019, the SP, Renske Leijten, opened a hotline. So now we read in the minutes that in that summer the cabinet was already busy talking about these problems. They knew it a long time ago. They knew these people were being crushed a long time ago. They knew for a long time that things were happening here that couldn't handle it. And they knew for a long time that this was wider than just the group that it was originally about. We got the most horrible stories from that hotline, from home evictions, from families growing up in poverty, from people losing their jobs, marriages that have run on the cliffs, because people just don't get the tension anymore, children who are constantly anxious, children who have to sleep on the ground, on the cold floor, because there's no money for a bed. People being taken off the road. The story of one of the parents who was taken off the road and had to turn the car in came on the day of the debate. And Renske went to Mrs. Lodders of the VVD that day and to Pieter Ommzigt of the CDA. On that day, in the debate, the Chamber managed to put an end to the so-called coercive actions for those parents, who were certainly unjust, on a temporary basis. That was in that debate and on the basis of that story. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he is going to manage to see these Members of Parliament discussed in such a way in his Council of Ministers. Those MPs who did what they had to do, who played their part, namely to talk to the people about who it is, who put things on the agenda here, fight things. Mind you, all the solutions, all the temporary solutions, all the partial solutions that have come for the parents have all come because of those critical MPs and nothing by the cabinet. My question to the Prime Minister is: if he knew about this all along, why didn't he intervene? Why'd he let all these coercive actions go through all this time? Why did he put all these people in trouble all this time when he knew about it? What is he thinking, where does he get the guts to criticize those MPs for shutting down those MPs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u11	First of all, it is very good that Mrs Marijnissen cites a number of personal examples. Because in all the fuss over the last week, you'd almost forget what those thousands of parents have been going through because of that supplemental affair, where people are still in deep misery. Fortunately, the compensation has started, but it is too late for many people. It is a good thing that Mrs Marijnissen also mentions this in this debate. Then I have the question of why we are here today, related to the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee and the debate we held in this Chamber earlier this year. That POK has done a good job on our behalf as a Chamber of Inquiry into what has gone wrong in the past few years in that supplementing affair. That POK has prepared a very hard report on this, which ultimately led to the government quite rightly giving the king the resignation. That was the only possible conclusion after that POK report. But I hear Mrs Marijnissen in this debate today and also Mrs Leijten in Op1 last week suggest that this is all new information, as if the POK did not have the minutes from which you could conclude this. Mrs Leijten literally said: 'I did not get those minutes, but only summaries'. We now know that the minutes themselves count 37 pages and the piece that was made available to the POK 31 pages. It just says the exact same thing. I share with you the anger about the supplemental affair, I share with you the anger that it has lasted too long. I share with you the frustration that all these parents still have to wait for that. But we already knew that this cabinet had been wrong in recent years and that the cabinet had resigned. So why this extra indignation today, I ask Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u12	Firstly, the first part of Mr Jetten's interruption about parents. He says: 'Good thing that's mentioned here after all.' As far as I'm concerned, that shouldn't be called "still for a while." I do not think that is what you mean either, but I would really like to make an urgent appeal to you and to all my colleagues in the Chamber: please let it be about those parents today. We were all able to read Faithful this morning. We have all been able to see how disastrous things are still going at the moment with the implementation of decent compensation for these people. That just means that you get back the money that was ever illegally taken from you. Even today, it is not possible to do that properly. That's a real shame. I hope to the full that this debate is not only about minutes, trial and dolls, but above all about those parents. Then there is the second part of Mr Jetten's question. Was there a lot of news in there? Yeah, there was definitely some new stuff in there. Mr Jetten also knows that the interrogation committee had only a limited mandate. Quite a few things have remained outside the committee's investigation. That's a whole list of things with, among other things, the use of second nationality. I find it really shocking to read that it was known long and wide in the cabinet and in high circles that this was a major problem. I find it shocking to read in those minutes that it has long been widely known to the cabinet that the group involved, namely those who are unjustly accused, who are being crushed by the government, is far greater than we probably know here. Sorry, Mr. Jetten, maybe you have more information than I do. We have also read in the minutes that coalition members regularly receive more and more information than we do as opposition chamber members. Perhaps that is the case in this case; I do not know. This information is not known to us. That's why I'm asking that question to the cabinet right now. I find that shocking. I would think: if you, as a cabinet, were to learn that the group of people who are being unjustly dealt with is so big, you would have to do everything you can to get it up to the table, to find a solution? Instead, you can see that this cabinet is working to limit so-called precedents, so above all to ensure that people's problems do not come out and that imagery remains good. I find that shocking, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u13	Let us focus our debates here in the Chamber on this. Let's focus on how we can handle that supplemental affair faster. Let us focus on whether things are going wrong with other implementation organisations. Because what Mrs Marijnissen is doing now... I am going to add a few things, because there is now the impression that this POK may not have done its job properly or that we as a Chamber at the beginning of this year did not already know everything we needed to know to send the cabinet home if it had not resigned itself. First of all, I would like to quote from the anonymised minutes. It will take some time, Mr President, but it is an important point. This was stated in the anonymized minutes, which the POK received: "In the direction of Mrs Lodders, the importance of unity within the coalition has already been stressed. It should be noted that a lot of time and energy has been spent on sensitizing Mr Omtzigt, with limited success." That, by the way, is a compliment to those two coalition chamber members, who did not care about it and simply continued their work. But this was in the anonymized minutes, which the POK already had and which were the basis for the POK conclusions and one of the reasons why this cabinet left. Then we have now received the minutes of the cabinet. It says: "The Prime Minister has already indicated to Mrs Lodder the importance of unity within the coalition." And it says: "Minister Hoekstra joins (...). It should be noted that Minister De Jonge and speaker have devoted a lot of time and energy to sensitizing Mr Omtzit." In other words, what was the outcome of the minutes last week, which the cabinet was right to release? The Chamber knew that a long time ago, because it had already been sent to the POK in the anonymized version. So I would like to warn you, Mr President, that I would like to hear Mrs Marijnissen's reflection on this matter, that we are going to have a lot of fuss here about matters that the Chamber has long known. Let us put our energy into answering the very right question at the beginning of Mrs Marijnissen's speech, namely how we are going to prevent this kind of misery in the future and how we are going to solve it more quickly for all those affected Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u14	When it comes to Mr Jetten's call for all our energy to be put into a solution for the parents, I would really say: sorry, I hope he will do the same to all the other Members of Parliament who are right here. 'Cause I think this might be the least we need at our address. I already referred to our hotline "Summer 2019" and the deployment of Renske Leijten. I think we are constantly putting parents' interests first. The shocking thing is that we have read here that there is a cabinet here that does not at all place the importance of these parents. I wish I could. So you can ask me; fine. And I wholeheartedly endorse it. In fact, I'll make that call myself here. But I particularly hope that you will address your cabinet on this, because that is what we can read in full from those minutes, and that is what is most shocking. Certainly the interrogation committee had firm conclusions, yes. And it is right that the cabinet has resigned. But how shocking is it to see that this cabinet spends an entire summer, in 2019, only making images? Because let's face it: it's about the silence of critical MPs, that's what you called it, but it's about a lot more than that. It is also about keeping the group small and limiting the precedent. I find that unbelievable. You should know, "There's a problem. I'm sorry! How are we going to solve that?" No, this cabinet isn't working on that. This cabinet is concerned with the question: how do we cover this up? The word "house expulsions" appears exactly zero times in those minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u16	The word... Sorry, Chairman. The word 'discrimination' appears exactly zero times in those minutes. Children growing up in poverty? It appears in those minutes zero times. We have seen 37 pages; zero times it occurs. So I hope you will also ask the critical questions to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u17	I will also have questions for other speakers in a moment. I will also mention in my own contribution the suffering of those parents and also ask questions to the cabinet. But I really do want to prevent us, as a Chamber, from being involved in imaging all day long. Because if we raise the suggestion that there has been all sorts of new information on the table over the past week that makes this misery even greater, then we as a Chamber are only concerned with that image. We need to work on what a number of Members of Parliament have already done in recent years: getting the problems over the table, broadening the target group, making a better compensation scheme. That is what Mrs Leijten did with Secretary of State Van Huffelen: to ensure that this compensation scheme was also accessible to other parents. That's what we need to do here. We must solve these problems of people in the Netherlands and not contribute to the imagery by suggesting here as if there were all kinds of things in the Minutes that the Chamber did not already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u18	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'm having a hard time with this, I see. I'm having a really hard time with this. I may have a question for Mr Jetten. For example, I also have them in the cabinet. It was about the coercive actions that just went through. While this cabinet already knew "oh, there's things wrong, people are probably being dealt with way too hard" it's decided: we know that this group is much wider, but with that very broad group we just let it all go through. Obviously Mr Jetten was already aware of this, I understand, because he has read nothing new in the Minutes. Is this such an example that coalition room members are better informed than opposition room members? We're shocked about that. We would like an explanation from the cabinet. It's outrageous what's been done to all these people all this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Jetten will have his say later. I am giving Mr Jetten the opportunity to respond very briefly. He also has a first term, so very briefly. You will then be able to hold the debate if Mr Jetten has his first term. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u21	What I read in the minutes is a cabinet that was powerless to quickly find a decent solution to the surcharge affair. But what I also read in it is annoying about the Chamber. That is a compliment to the Chamber: the fact that Members of Parliament persisted here, continued to dig, continued to bite, until all the problems were over and there was a proper compensation arrangement for the Chamber. So I'm reading an impotent cabinet and a chamber that's done its job. Let us continue to do so and make sure that any other problems come into view, but not make the imagery and the fuss even greater. That doesn't fit us. If we want a different governance culture, then as a Chamber we will have to do our part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you. I would like to conclude by giving the floor to Mrs Den Haan...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u23	I would like to respond very briefly, because I find it really incredible that even in this debate Mr Jetten has the courage to put the image above the truth. Well, it's very impertinent, Mr. Jetten, that you dare say that. And that you call this cabinet powerless when you have the knowledge in the minutes? That has nothing to do with powerlessness, Mr. Jetten. Everything has been unwilling here, and that is exactly what we blame this cabinet for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of 50PLUS for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you're standing in front of the closet in the morning and you think, "What am I supposed to wear?" With this debate in mind, I actually got no further than black. Black because I have come to this debate with a heavy heart. Black because there is still no suitable solution for many victims. Black also because it has been found that the cabinet has withheld information and that people have been spoken of in an improper way. But also black because there are still duped parents day in, day out wrestling. There has been a great deal of talk in recent days about the Minutes and, above all, about what was in them, and rightly so. Of course we have to talk about it today, but let us also be careful that we are going to spend all our time on minutes instead of turning time, energy and anger into helping all these people who deserve it. Their lives are broken, damaged. Precious time has been lost in fighting injustice. Time lost to grief, powerlessness, loss of money, work, partners, children and sometimes also a roof over your head. The child allowance affair is politically a debacle, but humanly it is a catastrophe. As far as I am concerned, there is only one thing that we have heard from colleagues: how are we going to ensure that the victims are helped and compensated as quickly as possible and how can we support these people to get their lives back on track? What does it take so that they can move on after all these years of misery and injustice that has been done to them? Their lives have been destroyed. I heard Minister De Jonge yesterday talking about quarantine coaches to support people when they come home from a high-risk country. Speaking of unnecessary help. Why not coaches for the victims of this child allowance affair, coaches helping them get their lives back on track? Several municipalities take initiatives to this end, but let's realize this centrally for all duped parents. I have also read the minutes of the Council of Ministers, and that is not easy. They give a painful picture of how things work in practice. Sending a non-complete factual account to the Chamber is unacceptable. Wanting to sensitize difficult MPs is absolutely unspeakable. Legally, it is not appropriate, as executive power, to speak in such a way, as has happened, about controlling power. To give coalition parties a clear source of information, which does not fit in with our dual political system. Short and good: the cabinet is a missionary for a reason. We can talk long and wide about how this could have happened. There will always be many versions of one and the same child allowance affair. There will be many ways of explaining what can be read in the Minutes. However, that should not stand in the way of the resolution. We've got work to do. By showing what we can do for these people in the Netherlands, trust can also be restored, the trust between citizens and government. In addition, now, more than ever, the damaged confidence between the Lower House and the Cabinet plays. The solution that is now being sought is transparency. Everything, but everything, must be made public. In this case, it is understandable and right, but I wonder where this will stop and, above all, whether this will help restore confidence. I don't think so personally. But how? That's gonna be quite a puzzle. We're gonna have to put that puzzle together soon. I would appeal to the President-in-Office to take the lead in this matter. Furthermore, I have only two questions to the directors present here. I understand that there are major implementation problems in the tax administration that are going to compensate the affected parents. It looks like the said date of 1 May will not be met. What's it gonna take to help the duped quickly? What's the Cabinet gonna do? In which feasible timeline can parents be compensated and get support in getting their lives back on track? Even if I had to help myself behind the computer, sit on the phone to call people, deploy my network to help people get back to work or as some kind of buddy can provide further support to these people, I would do it right away. As far as I am concerned, we must work together towards more and better solutions. What do you need from us as Second Chamber? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Thousands of people are still in debt restructuring and live on or below the poverty line. Parents still get intimidating letters with false information. A lot of parents are not going to get the €30,000 compensation before 1 May, even though it has been promised. For anyone who thought or wants to do that it is solved: it is not. It's the parents who paid the highest price. Definitely not! The politicians who have been forced by the Chamber to take up their ministerial responsibility and resign. The question has always been whether this was intrinsically motivated, because this cabinet was really shocked by what it had caused itself, or whether the resignation was for the stage. Mr. Chairman. The minutes that we have now been able to read, on which the POK report is indeed based, do not give a very good impression. Of course, the conclusions of the interrogation committee were already very harsh, but, reading the Minutes now, it is still fairly inflammable. Of course, the cabinet finally took on its responsibilities, driven by the Chamber, by critical MPs who have been working their asses off to get the bottom of this, which has still not been achieved, despite all their efforts. Because of that Chamber, the cabinet took action. Nowhere have we seen the cabinet do that on its own. The depressed faces that we have seen in the media after the resignation of the cabinet and all those words about how bad it was for the parents and that resignation was a very big, heavy step after all. I mention Mrs Kaag, and I also mention Mrs Schouten, whom we saw on television, come into a different light when you read directly in the minutes that they have just betrayed these people and left them to the political motive to save their own ass. Instead of the fact that the highest executive body in the Netherlands was trying to solve these people's problems, shocked by what they discovered, thanks to the MPs, it was trying to save its own ass. It is more than painful that MPs who have fought for the parents have been called "indecent" and "irresponsible." And it was unconstitutional, too. And it has exposed a new lie from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister did agree with the conclusions of the POK report, but the Prime Minister said that misinformation of the Chamber had no political motive. And that's exactly what we've found out now. The minutes show that the cabinet actively decided to cover up some of the tax authorities' problems. What could be the basis for such a decision other than a political motive? It was Secretary of State Snel who said that there are citizens who have been wrongly harmed by the Tax Administration and we should not talk about that. Minister Schouten agreed: let us inform the Chamber, but not unnecessarily draw attention to the fact that the problems are even greater. It's unbelievable. You hoped there was a minister, after the RTL pieces, who had raised his finger and said: but this cannot be done, with that non-information and the Constitution. But it turned out to be Minister Grapperhaus who did not raise his finger to say "dear people, this is not possible," but who raised his finger, it seems, to set his own precedent, with his ministry, which also has a very difficult relationship with information to the Chamber. He then decided to participate actively in the proposal to throw the Chamber on the wrong track. The motion was not only not carried out, it was decided, at the suggestion of Grapperhaus, to pretend that the motion that asked for all that information was being carried out. If there are no political reasons for this, either the Prime Minister is lying to the Chamber again or he does not recognise the difference between the political interests of his cabinet and his party and the respect of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u29	Madam President. "No news under the sun" has become a well-known expression, those ancient words from the Ecclesiastical Book of Wisdom. You can also ask yourself that question in everything that is now so much to do about it. Isn't it mainly a colouring of what we knew a long time ago and about which we have already debated extensively? Admittedly, there's definitely something to be said for that. After all, the fact that the information provided to the Chamber was seriously inadequate in the case of the supplement has been written in black and white. The report Unfamiliar injustice of former colleague Van Dam and his colleagues describes mercilessly what has gone wrong. That report was so intense that the cabinet even decided to draw the ultimate political consequence from it and to resign completely. And that this cabinet, like many previous Cabinets, maintained that information towards the Chamber could be limited to protect personal policy views of officials, is certainly not a thunderbolt in the clear sky either. And then the complaining about critical MPs. It is not uplifting to see that recorded in smells and colors, but really new under the sun that is neither. As a new MP, I was surprised to hear from coalition members at the time that written questions were refused by a political group board, explaining that the Minister does not want these questions. Especially since the 1980s the lack of dualism has been a constant chorus in the lamentation of the relationship between government and general. Yet I would find it a little too easy to suffice with a reference to "nothing news under the sun." Three things about that "but." First of all: a new coloring of what we all knew can also loosen up a lot. And then I particularly care what that means for the doomed parents, who are still sighing under the consequences of the payment affair; the new pain that that gives. Above all, I would like to make a very clear statement today to all those who say: let this compensation be paid first and foremost. And I am afraid of reports that all this would be difficult and would be delayed further. Mr. Chairman. It is also painful for MPs who knocked on the information door in vain over and over again. They were not seen and treated as a useful counterpower, but as a troublesome nuisance force, and that stings. Then there is the second point. It is quite exceptional that very secret ministerial minutes are made public. Politically understandable, but state law is an extremely risky precedent. My question to the Prime Minister is: how is it prevented that leaks will pay in the future or that the minutes will shrivel into meaningless phrases because secrecy is no longer guaranteed? Mr. Chairman. Another third reason why "nothing new under the sun" doesn't finish the stocking. Even if something has been practice for many years, we must not rely on it. In response to the report on the childcare allowance affair, the outgoing cabinet announced a radical step towards greater openness. The cabinet no longer wants to use the basic "personal policy concepts" as a ground for refusal. Documents for internal reflection will also be published. That's really new. What about the fulfillment of that promise? Then there is the other point of pain: the counterpower and the question "what are coalition fractions on earth"? This undoubtedly comes back to the attempts to reform the administrative culture on which the informer is now nesting on the road to a hopefully rapid formation of a new cabinet, but I would like to stress that, as representatives of the people, let us not wait for our own responsibility to work across party boundaries in a Second Chamber which further strengthens the task of control and the task of co-legislator. There is also a beautiful text in the book of Ecclesiastes: "Do what your hand finds to do, and do it with your power." So do it with all that's inside of you. It's a nice job to get on with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mr. Chairman. "Nothing inauspicious has happened." That was the Prime Minister's first reaction. I hope we've all learned from the past few weeks that doubt is in place rather than almost immediately starting the counterattack. If you really don't think anything inauspicious has happened, it also says something about your opinion of that governance culture. I'll explain how I got there. We have all been able to read in the minutes how Members of Parliament were spoken, by name and by name. We have been able to read how MPs should be sensitized, about coalition room members who really had to whistle a little lower. What we couldn't read, I found at least as salient as his passages about the families. There has been no mention of families by name or by name. It wasn't about the problems families have, about the huge debts. It wasn't by name about people whose relationship has gone down. If the cabinet had talked a little less about annoying MPs, by name and name, but with name and name about the people affected, wouldn't the solution have been quicker for these people? Would there have been any change in the precedent? Wasn't it said instead of "beware that it doesn't extend wider": oh dear, are there perhaps more people with problems thanks to the government, and shouldn't we just help these people directly? That is why my question is: has there been any mention of specific cases during this period? Has there been any mention of the families that have been in trouble? Mr. Chairman. The minutes give us an insight into this administrative culture. Sometimes it seems more focused on solving political problems than on solving real problems of people and of social problems. And that has to change. We are not just changing that with a change of guard in the Council of Ministers. For this we need a strong and resilient democratic rule of law, a rule of law that protects citizens first and foremost against the government. Because now it seems more and more that the rule of law must protect the government from its citizens. The government must be the first to comply with the law. That did not happen with the surcharges, it did not happen with the Urgendavonnis, it did not happen with the nitrogen policy. Parliamentary groups are not always at the forefront of defending the rule of law and that power and opposition. The VVD is at the forefront of demanding that subsidies be taken away from organisations, NGOs, who are critical about government policy: "They only do that with their own money." In recent years, so much has been cut back on legal aid that access to justice has been compromised. 60% of court cases are between the government and its citizens. And in many of these cases, the government also appeals against those rulings. Impossible political wishes are still being imposed on implementation. The counterpower of the Ombudsman and the Personal Data Authority is still underfunded. Inspections are not independent. They're too close to the Ministry and too close to the ministers they need to control. Mr. Chairman. These minutes show that the Committee of Inquiry has done a good job. They show that the Chamber is not well, not on time and not fully informed. They show that Article 68 of the Constitution has not been properly shaped. But what the Minutes mainly show is that the most important constitutional task we all have here in the Lower House and in the Cabinet, the protection of citizens, has not been achieved. It is for ministers to work on solutions to people's problems, not to sensitise MPs. It is up to ministers to solve the major problems of our time, such as climate change, not to frame MPs. It is for ministers to actively share information with Parliament, not to try to circumvent the Constitution. And it is our joint task to implement the Constitution. It is our joint task to protect and help citizens, because the Netherlands deserves a cabinet that is not primarily concerned with imagery or activist MPs with sincere concerns for people in our country. The concerns about today and the future deserve vision and solutions, not quarrel. This calls for a new governance culture in which the focus is less on imaging and the political scoreboard, but on honesty and solutions. And that requires the government to be honest about mistakes that are made in the execution and not to wait for journalists or activist MPs who have turned up problems, but to actively inform the Chamber itself. But it also calls for a parliament which, if the cabinet then does so, does not directly demand the head of the minister in every error. That's our joint mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. It is the summer of 2019 and slowly but surely it becomes clear what is going on in what we are going to call "the surcharge affair." After the persistent commitment of several MPs, from RTL, van Trouw, the drama and the number of people unjustly treated as frauds and lost everything. In that summer of 2019, the Rutte III cabinet knew that some serious mistakes had been made by the Tax Administration, causing a lot of Dutch people to fall into deep misery. Let us bear that in mind and look at the Minutes with that look. What do we read? Is there any concern as to whether these problems are something broader and whether people in other places are treated like this by the government? No, members of the cabinet express fear of precedent. Is there a eager search for opportunities to help people quickly and well? No, the cabinet is mainly concerned about the imagery and political consequences. Is there a bit of steam being blown off and moaning about troublesome MPs? No, there is a lot of talk about how Members of Parliament who are trying to get the truth out of the table can be kept under their thumb. Is there any attempt to get information up and share it with the Chamber as soon as possible? No, on the contrary, it discusses how less information can be given than is available and why is asked. This is always with the agreement of all the ministers of the Rutte III cabinet. Mr. Chairman. That is about what is in the Minutes, but I was perhaps even more dismayed about what is not in the Minutes. There is hardly any talk of structural problem solving and doing something for the victims. It's hardly about changing laws and regulations like the Awir that caused the problems. No proposals are made to improve appeal procedures at the Tax Office. That is what it should have been about, and that is what I want to talk about today. Because talking about radical ideas, talking about new leadership, must take place in the Trêveszaal. This should result in proposals that help the public authorities to return to the public rather than to the citizen. Mr. Chairman. What's to be done now? Finally compensation for all the victims. Just last week, hundreds of parents were wrongly rejected. This morning we read on the front page of Trouw that it is another chaos in the payment of help to the Tax Office. When will this be resolved? We must also finally clarify discrimination and the role of ethnic profiling in this affair. When will this clarity come to light? Childcare needs to be kicked. There needs to be a public-funded preschool, which simply makes the childcare allowance superfluous. The possibilities for appeal and appeal should be extended. There needs to be more money for the social attorney to support people. There must be a hardness clause in all social legislation to ensure that action can be taken earlier if people's laws prove to be wrong. The government must again rely on trust in people, where a mistake is not immediately punished, but it is first looked at: what about and what can we do to help? Finally, Mr President. Much is being said about restoring confidence in the political and government, and that is what is needed. A lot has to change. More dualism, power and counterpower, we need to see here in the Chamber. But let us not forget that it is the Rutte III cabinet that has made grave mistakes here. Trustworthy restoration of trust can only begin if something really changes the way the victims of the surcharge fraud are dealt with, in the way in which something really changes for them in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u35	I certainly agree with a large part of Mrs Ploumen's speech when it comes to strengthening the rule of law, citizens who can get their rights, and you name it all. Good questions for now, but I also think for the coming months what we have to do as a Chamber. I would just like to put a question to Mrs Ploumen about a tweet she posted last week in response to the government's disclosure of the minutes. I thought Mrs Ploumen used some pretty big words on Twitter. She talked there about calving coalition room members. My question is actually very simple. Mrs Ploumen herself was a minister and a member of the Council of Ministers at the time of Rutte II, where, of course, the supplementing affair has been going on for a long time. Has there never been any mention of individual MPs in those Councils between 2012 and 2017? And if it did, how did Mrs Ploumen react to it herself or by other members of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u36	I have one opinion for Mr Jetten. His party was in the cabinet from 2017 to 2021. If I were him, I'd be... I would have been worried for four years about how his cabinet is sitting there talking about MPs. That is the concern that Mr Jetten should have. That's what we're talking about here today. We are talking about how Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Leijten and many others have been thwarted in their requests for information. That's the question. That's why I posted the tweet. This is about Rutte III, what went wrong, what else could happen. Sure, I'd like to talk to Mr Jetten about what else can be done. But I'm also going to tell him: he could have done that in the last four years. If I were him, I'd break my mind about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u37	This isn't just about Rutte III. This is, of course, first of all about the supplementing affair, about how we can resolve it for the affected parents as soon as possible. It is also about what Mrs Ploumen has done: how do we even strengthen the democratic rule of law and citizens who can go back to the government if they need help? But I am not going to let Mrs Ploumen talk me into saying that this political culture is just something that has arisen under Rutte III over the last four years. This political culture has become increasingly monistic over the past decades here in The Hague, with increasing pressure on individual MPs, including from coalition and cabinet, to do their work in a different way. I'd be happy to refresh Mrs Ploumen's memory. Désirée Bonis left the PvdA party in 2013. I quote her: 'There was pressure from the group to abandon my position, almost always with a reference to the importance of supporting our minister and keeping coalition partners satisfied'. Myrthe Hylkens, 2018: "I've been under a lot of pressure and couldn't really appreciate the way it was tried to keep me in the wheelbarrow." Anne Mulder, VVD'er, spokesperson for Social Affairs, and took it into his head to hand out an incompetence to Lodewijk Asscher. He wasn't the spokesperson on that file a week later. When I was a Member of Parliament myself for a few weeks, I got annoyed by the Prime Minister because as a new Member of Parliament, not even part of the coalition, I had an argument with a PvdA executive. I was then addressed from box K, because that was not the intention of a party who wanted to sit at the formation table. So, Mr President, my point is: I fully agree with all the questions and comments that Mrs Ploumen has made on the issue of fees and the democratic rule of law, but let us also conclude here that we are all responsible for this political culture. Then don't call this coalition and just Rutte III. It is a culture that has been going on for a long time and which also included the Labour Party. We can work it out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u38	This is a lot of guts. First, Mr Marijnissen says that she makes more of the minutes than it says in order to mask what happened in Rutte III, this cabinet, in which D66 is in, over the last four years. Or let's just say: what didn't happen, because if they had taken action, those people would have been helped. And now don't want to talk about Rutte III, what went wrong there, the role of D66 in that and then back to Adam and Eve. Of course we have to deal with this together. But today, April 29, 2021, it's about the summer, July 12, 2019, that could have started solving the misery of the people affected by the supplemental affair. Today, on 29 April 2021, I notice that the front page of Trouw is completely filled with what has not been done for those people. The rest is all diversion. Today we need to talk about that. There must be a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr Jetten, and a little shorter and more concise, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u40	That is not a diversion; that is what has gone wrong in recent years. That supplementing affair arose at the time when we made wrong legislation and wrong policies. It could have lasted because the problems didn't come up. And yes, I agree with Mrs Ploumen, it has taken far too long for this cabinet to find a suitable solution. But if we want to avoid that in the future, we should not stare blindly at the minutes of those few months that we have now, but dare to recognise the wider problem in policy, legislation and implementation, and jointly see that task of changing governance culture with each other. I am glad that Mrs Ploumen also said that we can and should do so together in the coming period. I'd like to pick up that glove with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u41	We have one task and that is to 'blindly stare' at solving the problems of the people who are still trying to invent a word that is in the big, big problems, because this cabinet has picked it up too late and too slowly and hasn't solved it yet. That's what today's about. That's what we're staring at. The rest are indeed distractions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u43	Mr. Chairman. In January 2021, this cabinet resigned to take responsibility for unprecedented injustice committed to parents and children. It has taken responsibility for a cluster catastrophe of epic proportions, according to Klaas Dijkhoff earlier this year. Part of this cluster catastrophe was the provision of information to the Chamber, on which the Committee was crystal clear. I quote: "At the highest level, the House of Representatives has repeatedly been confronted with untimely, incomplete and incorrect information about the child care allowance." Today we are having a debate in response to last week's reports and documents sent to the Chamber by the Cabinet. If you've read the 37 pages of minutes, and read how parts talk about MPs, I think it's ugly and inappropriate. Renske Leijten, Pieter Omtzigt, Helma Lodders and Dennis Wiersma, all critical MPs, and that's not annoying, that's not difficult, that's what we do. In the documents my group therefore reads with surprise that Cora van Nieuwenhuizen says, after some introductory words, that it is in no way acceptable that coalition groups should take a stronger position than opposition groups. And then the mp agrees with this point. This remark by Van Nieuwenhuizen may have been shared in a moment of frustration, but I assume that when reading the minutes, the Prime Minister considers that this statement is simply inappropriate and not correct and that he and the VVD Group believe that each group should be as critical as it needs to be. In the same discussion, Minister Kaag says that it is a good thing that a fierce debate is taking place. Let me immediately say that this is a nice sound to read. But she also says that this debate must take place within certain frameworks and that this should be discussed with coalition group chairmen and communicated to the political groups. My questions are: how about this, and are those frames ever made? Let me be quite clear here: for the VVD there is only one place where the frameworks and the sharpness of our input and what we think are determined, and that is in our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u44	An interruption by Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u45	I think that these very rightly critical questions from the VVD Group are to the cabinet. I would point out to Mrs Hermans that the Prime Minister's statement is not only inappropriate but also unconstitutional. After all, it is up to the Chamber to check. And if critical notes have to be cracked, then that has to be the case. My question is also about the Prime Minister's remark prior to the publication of those minutes. Because he said, "Go ahead, they can go out, because nothing inaudible has happened." What does Mrs Hermans think of this statement, in the light of the rightly critical questions that she is now asking the cabinet, precisely about those minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u46	A fair question from Mrs Marijnissen, how I listened to the Prime Minister's statement on the inaudible. That concerned the provision of information to the Chamber. I'm going to say a few things about that. That was quite separate from what has been said, from what has been said about Members of Parliament, at least that is how I listened to that remark. I think I have made that clear; I am critical of that. I think that, especially when you read all these pages in a row, especially in the light of the discussion we have been having here for a few weeks about governance culture, power and opposition, ugly, inappropriate, and that is not appropriate, as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u47	No, it's definitely not right. And if you know that on 4 July 2019 a motion was unanimously adopted here in the Chamber by Mr Omtzigt, who said that the Tax Administration acted unlawfully, how does Mrs Hermans feel about that? We then saw how that motion was received in the Council of Ministers. There was no mention of that motion, of that being a problem, but of those critical MPs who brought it up. How does Mrs Hermans feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u48	I called it 'an ugly image' and that is exactly what Mrs Marijnissen is now referring to. In these 37 pages it is so much about Members of Parliament and about what kind of sharpness the position may have and frameworks within which to debate. Then you get the impression that managing that political process, to put it mildly, was more important than solving the problems or discussing the issue that it should be about. That's why I gave it the "ugly" qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mrs. Marijnissen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u50	Yes, I understand that, but the point was, of course, that on 4 July the Chamber unanimously gave a ruling, including the VVD Group, so it was 150-0 that the Tax Administration acted unlawfully. Well, you'd think it'd be a good idea to shake things up. Then you'd think it'd be agenda item 1, 2, 3 et cetera at the ministerial council. No, what was it about in the Council of Ministers after that, on July 12, 2019? About how MPs are only activist to get into the media. And that also means your Member of Parliament, Mrs Lodders. Do you recognize that image?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u51	I repeat what I just said. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that the Chamber finds... No, let me go one more step back. The House, by incessantly asking Mrs Leijten, by asking Mr Omtzigt, also Mrs Lodders, has made an important contribution to their hard work, and this problem has come to an end in its entirety. I see Mr Azarkan standing; he must also be mentioned. And it should have been much sooner. And that should have been much sharper. And there is immemorial, incorrect and incomplete information. That's what the committee found out. So we do not disagree on that. Those minutes show that too much has been said about a political process, about us and about relations with Members of Parliament rather than about solving the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr Hermans quoted from the report. The report on unprecedented injustice also states that politically desirable outcomes have been taken into account. Your party leader, Mr Rutte, said: I do not recognize myself in that. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u53	Let me now turn to the other point on which this debate is concerned: the provision of information. Can we now say, on the basis of the documents shared with the Chamber last week, that information has not been shared with the Chamber for political reasons? I'll repeat it again. The committee's report has indeed noted that it is immeasurable, incorrect and incomplete. The Prime Minister says in the debate on this: there were no political reasons for this. Over the last few days, my group, too, has read and weighed the Minutes on that point. Can you say, on the basis of those minutes, that for political reasons, the information that was mentioned in the specific factual account was not provided? Our consideration is: no, no, no information has been shared with the Chamber for political reasons. For certain reasons, however, it has been chosen not to share information with the Chamber, but these reasons have been shared with the Chamber at different times. We can follow these reasons, although I will make some critical comments on them. Our assessment is that the provision of information was poor, as the report concluded, but that the new information does not give us any reason to say that there were political reasons not to share information with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u54	That was a really long answer. The Van Dam Committee concludes that information has been withheld for political reasons. That has happened consciously, that is an invented strategy, that has not arisen suddenly. Do I understand why Mrs Hermans says: I accept and embrace the results of the report, but on that part I do not agree with what the committee concluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u55	What you can conclude from what I have just said is that we endorse the conclusions of the report. Now we have the question about the facts, the way and the form in which it was shared with the Chamber, about the information that was not shared. Are there political reasons for this? And the answer to that question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u56	But then you do not embrace the report, because the conclusion in the report is crystal clear: there are political reasons why this has not been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u57	The conclusion in the report is "untimely, incorrect and incomplete." You are right that it says "for political reasons." If I set that up with this question, I'll say no. I must also say that I weigh that piece of the report in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mrs. Ouwehand and then Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u59	The VVD does have a Member of Parliament who contributes to the efforts to obtain information. However, the VVD supports the motion that has been tabled by its own MP in order to obtain all those documents. The Committee has already concluded that the Chamber has not been informed. What Mrs Hermans says could also be taken off if: we tried, but it just didn't work out. But the committee concludes that there are political reasons for this. And then the VVD group here actually says, "This is where we separate our ways. We have been a critical parliamentary group and we have also participated in this investigation, but we are still pulling our hands off the results of that committee's investigation, which has been working on our behalf to find out." This is happening for political reasons; I should like to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u60	No, there was a very violent report published in December. That report was clasp-and-ready. The cabinet has also taken responsibility and resigned. My group fully supports that. That was the only correct political answer. Today we have a debate on the information shared with the Chamber following the Omtzigt motion, indeed supported by 150 Members of Parliament. That motion asked for a factual account. Then there was discussion, even when the motion was tabled, but above all in the Cabinet: how do we implement it and fill it in and what information can we or cannot share with the Chamber? Some information has indeed not been deliberately shared with the Chamber, but the consideration that the VVD Group makes is that this did not happen consciously to lead us astray or send us into the forest or at least with malicious intentions not to give that information. No, there were legitimate reasons for that in the cabinet... Well, about the motivation I will say separately later. There were legitimate reasons for this which we as a group can follow. In this way we say that we do not share the suggestions made in recent days that there is a political cover-up with regard to the information we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u62	Well, that's pretty intense. We were all able to read the minutes because there was a deliberate disagreement between the cabinet and the Chamber created by the Prime Minister, who set up an inquiry committee and asked for a parliamentary questioning. That's where conclusions came from. These conclusions have been taken over by the cabinet. Yeah, what else can you do? It would be very arrogant to say that we are wiping this whole report off the table. But just at the crucial point, the cabinet, through the Prime Minister, said: "We do not share that it was for political reasons." Now we have all been able to read those minutes and we can clarify that'misunderstand'. Who was right: the committee or Rutte? You read in the minutes that the committee was right. That motion wasn't carried out. There was one who put his finger up. That was Grapperhaus, who said, "Well, I don't know if that's possible in terms of Constitution." Apparently... I mean, I don't rule that out; we can't prove it, of course, but it does read a bit like:...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u63	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u64	"Hey, people, pay attention. We are not going to abide by the Constitution. We have to agree that we will decide this, because in the next case we will do it again." Because then he said, "I'll help with a reaction, so that the Chamber thinks the motion has been carried out."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mrs. Ouwehand, your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u66	They knew they weren't gonna do that. Had it been legitimate, the cabinet would have sent a letter to the Chamber in which it had literally said: pay attention, this motion has been adopted; we are not carrying it out, because... the cabinet did not. The cabinet has chosen to throw the Chamber on the wrong foot. The VVD insists that there are no political reasons for this. I'm sorry, what were you thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u67	In response to Mrs Ouwehand's extensive interruption, there are two points. Firstly, how does each of these groups assess the minutes that we have read about whether they are based on political reasons? My group has read the Minutes very carefully. Our opinion, the opinion of the VVD Group that I have expressed here today, is that there are no political reasons for not sharing certain information with the Chamber. Now I come to the question of justification, where I can go a long way with Mrs Ouwehand. Because yes, the cabinet writes in the letter: "At the time of appreciation, information has been given about what information we can and cannot give." Three more letters were sent after that. On 29 November, I say from my mind, an extensive letter was sent to the Chamber in which the flowchart was included. The motion would then have been partially implemented. In the previous letters I mentioned, arguments were mentioned as to why certain information could not be sent along: personal policy ideas, the protection of civil servants. Okay, here's my point. I also think, with you, that this statement of reasons could have been clearer. The reasons for that decision should have been further extended in the letter of 29 November, from A to Z. Too often, in this case, but I think we all have several examples of this in our portfolios, that we ourselves should look in footnotes and references to where the cabinet has previously reported or said things to us. If you take such an important decision on a motion that has been adopted in Chambers and which you cannot fully implement in order to repeat once again legitimate reasons in our view, then you are obliged to motivate the Chamber very clearly and very clearly. That is the principle of motivation, which is one of our principles of good governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. Mrs Simons and then Mr Klaver and Mrs Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u70	I interrupted you a few times because I want you to be brief and concise. I will give you the opportunity to ask a short question, and then Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u71	It seems very relevant to me today to determine which parties, which groups the principles of the rule of law... We have all sworn the oath 'we are faithful to the Constitution', and it has been violated here by the Cabinet and the VVD Group. I have two questions to start with. Is this line of speech agreed with the cabinet in advance? Is the government's line of action that it did not agree with the committee's conclusion, political reasons, in advance with the VVD Group? That's two questions. We are not just seeing a cabinet that violates the principles of our rule of law all the time, stretches the Constitution as long as it gets away with it, and the moment it gets caught, says: okay, we're going to do that differently from now on. I see that the VVD Group is also in favour of this. The Chamber was deliberately misinformed about that motion, deliberately. And the VVD Group says, "Oh, yes, it shouldn't have. We'll give them another chance."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u72	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Hermans and then I shall really go to Mrs Simons. Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u73	I hope I remembered all the questions. The first two questions relate to the timing of speeches on political reasons. There has been no coordination, no two ways. Your second question concerned the assessment of Article 68. That is the question before us. You have given your opinion in your speech and now in an interrupting debate with me. Your opinion is that for political reasons information has not been shared and therefore Article 68 has been violated. The opinion of the VVD Group, which I am now expressing, is that if we look at the documents we have now received and how we dealt with the facts, certain information is indeed not shared with the Chamber, but the reasons why it has not been shared are also shared with the Chamber. Let me say again: this could all have been put in a much tighter order in the letter of 29 November. But on the basis of all this information, my group's opinion is that there is no cover-up here. This is not a deliberate matter, for evil reasons, putting the Chamber on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u74	Thank you. Here's what I'd like to ask the Chamber. Mrs Hermans has now answered the same question several times. Let us avoid repeating too much. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u75	My question is actually: do you think that it matters very much to the parents who are sitting at home now whether they were political reasons for prolonging their suffering for so long, by years? Not with a few weeks, not with a few months, but with years. You probably think the cabinet had legitimate reasons. Could you explain these legitimate reasons to the parents at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u76	I think it is quite right that Mrs Simons should mention the parents. This is a matter of state law which is a very important and serious matter. I don't want to take an inch off that. At the same time, however, we read reports in the newspaper this morning about the compensation process, which is not good enough and is not fast enough. That is what I am getting at in my speech. That's what it should be all about, especially for the parents. Then about those legitimate reasons. Under Article 68 of the Constitution, you have reasons not to provide certain information. One of these concerns the personal policy views of officials. Until the beginning of this year, the cabinet dealt with this very strictly, too strictly. The Cabinet has also admitted that. My group is there too... I do not know if 'happy' is the right word. For the democratic process, for the power and counter-power debate we are having here, for the administrative culture, it is very good that this kind of information is to be shared, because it gives us more insight into considerations that have been made and into scenarios that have been considered. That will improve the quality of the debate here. But ultimately, because the quality of the debate is important, but ultimately, it is about what we meet at the end of the debate, arranging for people in the Netherlands. And in this case, in today's debate, for parents waiting for compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u77	I do hear in this reply that there is an enormous amount of value attached, rightly or wrongly, to protecting individuals, individual officials and the mores that have become here over the past ten or twenty years. But if I were sitting at home as a duped, I would just hear you say: we think it is important to protect the identity of civil servants; therefore, we think it is legitimate that the cabinet withholds information from the Chamber and that this prolongs the suffering of parents for many years, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u78	Then Mrs Simons has really listened to a different answer. I have just said that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has greatly welcomed the fact that the cabinet has decided to deal with these personal policy ideas much more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u79	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u80	After that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u81	That was when this was happening, in 2019, the policy. If we look back now, that is what the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has said, it has also prevented us from getting the problem up and running faster and better. So yes, with the knowledge of today we can say a lot about that, but let's be glad that that lesson has been taken and that decision has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u82	The knowledge of that time, especially in the cabinet and much less in the Chamber, because it was always not, incorrect or incompletely informed, was that there was a huge group of Dutch people in huge trouble because of the action of that same cabinet. That was the knowledge back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u83	I gave the opinion on how the VVD Group assessed, on the basis of the minutes, how the decision-making process went in 2019. We can follow the reasons for not sharing certain information with the Chamber. Some of these reasons, or indeed one of those reasons, the personal policy ideas, have been said by the cabinet: we are going to do so more often and more generously in the future. I think that's a very, very good decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u84	Mr Klaver for his interruption, and then Mrs Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u85	It is 10:30 p.m. and I feel that we are at a crossroads on how this debate continues for the rest of the day. This debate is very much about the culture of governance, how we deal with each other here and how we conduct the debate. What I see happening here is that the VVD Group actually does what has happened more often if there was a problem. You look up a little bit where you can still defend your land and say: we cannot look into the head of the Prime Minister or of members of the cabinet whether it was politically motivated or not. A committee of the Chamber has been set up to investigate. It has said that the Chamber is incomplete, immeasurable and misinformed. That is a conclusion that we have all supported. We supported Mr Dijkhoff's motion on this. We said we share these conclusions. That is what we should just stand back with each other instead of still looking for a defense to talk a little right about what the cabinet has done? In any case, that is how my group sees it. I think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u86	In my view, I started my contribution with the fact that the cabinet left at the beginning of this year, precisely because of the conclusions of the Van Dam report, and that my predecessor, Mr Dijkhoff, called everything that happened a cluster catastrophe of epic proportions. The report also states that the Chamber is immemorial, incomplete and misinformed. I am not taking an inch off that, my group is still 100% behind that. What I am doing here, in the interrupting debates, is to bring it back to the political question we are discussing today. The question today, following reports last week, at RTL, and the minutes that the cabinet subsequently sent to the Chamber, is about the fact story that Chamberwide has been asked by the entire Chamber to share with the Chamber. We already knew that the facts of the case were not provided as requested and intended by the Chamber or as intended when submitting that motion. The question about that information that has not been provided is whether the cabinet deliberately, for political reasons, intended to create a cover-up, which it did not share with the Chamber. Or was that for reasons that we can discuss but which are legitimate, at least at the time, within the policy then, within the rules that were then in force? How do you judge how the information has been handled? And then the opinion of the VVD Group that on the basis of the information we have received in the last week, you cannot say that information has been deliberately withheld, and I mean "consciously," in the sense of knowingly to lead us astray. Yes, information has deliberately not gone to the Chamber, but there are reasons for that and they have also been shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u87	In The Hague, this square kilometre from the Binnenhof, this is a reasoning that you can still find something in. But, as Mrs Simons said, what does this mean for all those people and those parents in the country who have suffered from this? Who cares? I can't look into what exactly the political motivation has been, but we're politicians, so almost everything we do has a political reason. And now the debate is called: did this happen on purpose, on purpose, were we or were we not sent into the woods? The end of the song was that the Chamber was sent into the woods. We're never gonna find out exactly what the cabinet did that with. I would like to suggest to the VVD Group that we do not go down that road in order to have the discussion about that. The cabinet was wrong; they didn't resign for nothing, period. Now it seems to me as if what has happened is still being cleared up. And it was wrong, it wasn't right. Let us leave it at that, please, because otherwise I predict it is now 12.30 p.m. which route this debate will take, namely in a full clash on exactly what the reasons have been, which we will never find out again. This was wrong, this was wrong, and tens of thousands of people in the Netherlands have suffered. That's the bottomline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u88	If we are talking about the whole affair, the whole issue on which the Van Dam Committee has written and published a report, then I agree with Mr Klaver from a to a. In the interrupting debates, that has been totally narrowed down to last week's demand, but I fully agree with you that something horrible, but really terrible has gone wrong here, where a lot of parents, a lot of families, a lot of children are suffering from, suffering from, suffering from, suffering from, what they carry with them for the rest of their lives. I would like to take this up with the VVD Group, which we have also apologized for in the debate in January, and I would like to repeat this here today, because that still feels that way. All I just did was bring it back to today's demand. But again, excuses about what went wrong in total, and what does not go well in recovery to this day, in compensating. I care, I feel responsible for that and every day I work here, I will do my best to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u89	Finally, Mr President. Sorry, that's good, that's part of it, that's important, I appreciate that. Only, I think that many parents, at least the parents I have spoken to, have gotten the feeling too often from politicians here in The Hague, that they are still trying to make up for what is crooked. By narrowing it very much now and saying that there were no political reasons, I am not saying that you are doing it. Let us not do that with each other, then I am not going to ask you what it is like or say that I can look into the head of this cabinet team. But don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u90	Thank you. You don't have to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u91	Maybe one last word. I very much agree with Mr Klaver. When you look at these kinds of debates, which are important to conduct, once again, you can sometimes get the impression that we are discussing very small details, while up there, behind them, a much greater drama takes place in people's daily lives. That's what it's about, and that's what it's about. I totally agree with you. If I have given rise to any suggestion that this should be undermined, then I would like to remove it here. All I've done is pull two things apart. What happened here is unprecedented and terrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u92	I should first like to give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij, then to Mrs Ploumen and finally to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u93	I hear Mrs Herman's qualifications as 'ugly' and 'not good'. I'm glad to hear that, because we agree on that. But I'm surprised too, because it's not new what we belong to. This has been going on for a year and a half. I actually have two questions. Firstly, what consequences does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats intend to have? At the same time, I wonder what happened in the last year and a half. Did the VVD Group allow this to happen or was it not aware of what was going on in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u94	These are a lot of questions. In the debate with Mr Klaver, I have just said that what happened here in this affair is terrible. Parents and families have been through terrible things. It has taken far too long before this affair, before this drama was over the table and the cabinet has begun to work on a solution to this. There have been Members of Parliament over the last 18 months, including my group, who have worked very hard, who have asked endless questions, who have asked them through and through in debates. Piece by piece, the information has come up. In the investigation report, we've all seen it come together. That is what we have done about it over the past year and a half. You also asked for lessons. How do we look back on this? What do we learn from this? My predecessor Klaas Dijkhoff reflected extensively in the debate in January. Allow me to mention two things that have also been mentioned in our group meeting in preparation for this debate. The first lesson is that when it all started in 2013 with the legislation from which this could have resulted, we focused too unilaterally on the fraud approach. We haven't had enough attention to the risks involved. In the fuss, in the topicality of that moment, we should have moved away as a group, we should have leaned back, we should have seen what happened, what went wrong. That's one of our lessons. The second lesson is still going wrong today, not going well, so that's what I care about. How do we ensure that the solutions that we come up with here, the solutions that we are advocating here, the solutions that we are voting for here also work in the implementation and are workable for the implementation? In the compensation scheme for parents, parents really need to be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u95	My question is also specifically about the function of the Chamber. Can the Chamber do what it has to do? My question is therefore also about Mrs Lodders, a member of your group. It was flagged back by the Prime Minister, the head of the VVD Group. Has Mrs Hermans been aware of this? Was that known within the VVD group? If not, how can that be? If so, what consequences are you going to draw from that within the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u96	I read that phrase in the Minutes. I don't know. I wasn't there. I don't know if that happened either. I would ask you to put that question to the Prime Minister. I have been in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the past four years, and I have never experienced any exhortation from members of the cabinet that we should not ask certain questions. That is why I repeat what I said at the beginning of my speech: there is one place where the VVD Group determines its input, its views and the focus of those views, and that is in the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u97	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen and then to Mr Azarkan. And I would ask you, Mrs Hermans, to respond a little bit more succinctly. Then we'll do Mrs. Kuik, after which I'd like to suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u98	I would like to come back briefly to the point that Klaver made. Has information not now been provided for political reasons? Mrs Hermans was right about this subject in Mr Rutte's words, but I would like to ask her to confirm and reassure me, and I also think Mr Klaver would like to ask the following. The report states "Despite this, the information was provided, according to the committee's investigation, in several cases motivated by desired legal or political outcomes, resulting in only partial delay or failure to provide information." That's literally what it says. So it says that for political reasons information was not provided, or partly, or too late. Now the whole Chamber has embraced the conclusions and lessons of this report with the Dijkhoff motion. Would Mrs Hermans, through you, President, confirm that she is indeed behind these lessons and is not now trying to run away from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u99	Mrs Hermans, very briefly, because I see a repetition of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u100	I'm not trying to run away from that. What I seemed to be nuanced about earlier was in no way a nuance. That was only about what the Minutes of last week made clear. The conclusions of the report support the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u101	And, Mr President, briefly, how does Mrs Hermans view the Prime Minister's statement that information was not provided to the Chamber for political reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u102	That's exactly where the nuance is. So I'm gonna hook it up to what we're talking about here today. The question today is: can you say, on the basis of the minutes that have been given, that certain parts of the information surrounding that factual account, motivated by political reasons, have not been given? Indeed, I note that certain information has not been given, but the opinion of the VVD Group is that it was not for politically bad reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u103	That is a really different conclusion from the conclusion I have just read from the Van Dam report. That's why I'm asking for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u104	In my view, Mrs Ploumen is now trying to put two things against each other that I really do not see opposite each other. The report has judged the whole child care allowance affair to be extremely harsh. I can hardly express in words how harsh they have judged, and that judgment supports the VVD Group. Today I am asked for an opinion on how I judge the Minutes and what we read in them about the provision of information on the facts. On that point, I do not share the political balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u105	I am sorry, Mrs Ploumen, but I shall now give the floor to Mr Azarkan, otherwise there will be too much repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u106	Let's just get to this point. I understand that Mrs Hermans says: we support the Dijkhoff motion, the former chairman of the group, we embrace the results of the report and we learn from it; we describe the conclusions. But now she says: when I read the Minutes, I see no reason to get that piece confirmed. Now it is literally written in those minutes, and I quote from my mind: "Minister Grapperhaus says that it must be avoided that answering the question leads to further questions being asked quickly, so we are not going to do so." What's non-political about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u107	That is exactly what my group is asking questions about. I had not yet got to that part of my speech, but perhaps you will allow me, Mr President, to give a direct response to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u108	Maybe it's okay, but what did you want to say, Mrs Hermans?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u109	I would like to ask that question about Mr Grapperhaus' comment. I want that. This also combines with my debate with Mrs Ouwehand, but also with Mrs Simons. I believe that the reasons for how this report was dealt with should have been more explicit and clearer in that letter of 29 November. That comment by Mr Grapperhaus was after it had already been decided how to deal with the facts, so I wonder what the idea was. Had just motivated what your considerations and considerations were to not make or make the facts story as it was made. Share it with the Chamber, explain it to the Chamber. These were reasons that had already been shared with the Chamber, but put them together one more time from a to z, so that we do not have to look for it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u110	Finally, Mr. Azarkan, and then Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mrs Hermans really needs to stop trying to talk straight, which is crooked. We didn't get the memo Palms three times. That was crucial, three times! I am looking at Secretary of State Mrs Van Huffelen, who said at some point: I don't know why that wasn't there either. No one knew that. We asked for work instructions, because from 2017 we asked ourselves why these parents were treated like this. Those work instructions didn't come. Later they did come and it turned out that they had to withhold information from the court. That means information has been withheld. It says literally: we must prevent published documents from leading to Mr. Snel getting any more questions quickly. That's just politics, isn't it? What's not political about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u112	You mention precisely a number of examples, documents and information documents which are not shared with the Chamber and on which, in my opinion, the conclusion 'untimely, incorrect, incomplete' is quite rightly based. The title of today's debate is about the Minutes, the shared Minutes, what would be in the Minutes. I've lost that for a while. That is where we are debating this. On the basis of the Minutes, I will consider whether you can say on that basis that something did not happen for political reasons. It is my opinion that this is not the case. You have a different judgment, and I respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u113	I am looking at Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Van Haga. Do you really have another question for Mrs Hermans? I will not allow the same question anymore, because Mrs Hermans has now answered the question in six different ways. Mrs Marijnissen, do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u114	Actually, I do. Mr Klaver just mentioned this as a turning point in the debate, but I have the feeling that with the input of the VVD, we are going backwards instead of forwards in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u115	I would like to put a specific question to Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u116	That is precisely why I think this point is relevant. Mrs Hermans herself says: can you say on the basis of the Minutes that this information was not provided for political reasons? Then she says, "No." But if, in addition to what Mr Azarkan has just said, there is literally in the Minutes that Mr Grapperhaus...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u117	I'm sorry, Mrs. Marijnissen, but that has just been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u118	No, because it also says that it must be avoided that published documents are constantly being used against Secretary of State Snel. That's nothing but a political reason, apart from the whole list I have here and I won't repeat. There are many other pieces that have not been given to the Chamber. Then Mrs Hermans cannot insist that this did not happen for political reasons. I think it is important to go through with this, because if she does, it really feels like a very big step back and a blow to the face of a lot of those affected parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u119	I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u120	You don't have to repeat the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u121	I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that the phrase she quotes evokes a certain image. I do not think that would have been necessary. I therefore put the question to the cabinet: why wasn't the letter of 29 November one more full explanation as to why you didn't share certain information or how you came to that consideration, or how you wanted to formulate it? Why didn't that happen? Why do we have to put it together in footnotes, appreciations and so on? It's the Cabinet's duty to the Chamber. I share that entirely with Mrs Marijnissen, as well as the frustration that it was not clear at the time. By the way, you can still disagree with the way that consideration has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u122	I will give you one more very brief opportunity. Otherwise it's really too much repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u123	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. This is not about getting it together, as Mrs Hermans says. There's a series of pieces. That's not paper. That means destroying people. For example, those so-called instructions that not all documents should be delivered to the judge. That's not just against the law. It's ruined lives. And then you read in the minutes that it is because the cabinet should not get into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u124	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u125	I think it's incredible. It's all sighed and supported in the cabinet, but I find it unimaginable. This is really a big step backwards from where we were.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u126	I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u127	I would like to know from Mrs Hermans how she thinks she can explain this, also for herself. In the end, very hard conclusions have been drawn. And now Mrs Hermans says: we do not really see this political motivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u128	This report has shown what a terrible thing has happened and that it should have been and could have been done much earlier in its entirety. This has led to unnecessary damage, even more pain and more suffering. I hate that. It was, it is, and it stays that way. Of that "cluster catastrophe of epic proportions," I really don't distance myself in any way. In fact, with today's news, this cluster catastrophe might even get a little bigger. It's incredibly intense what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u129	I give the floor to Mr Van Haga, then to Mrs Pouw-Verweij and then to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u130	I am of course always in the position where I tend to take the spokesmen of the VVD on their word. I also found the argument somewhat credible, until you made the point that no member of the VVD Chamber had been addressed in the last four years on a position that should not be expressed. I was part of it. You know it's not true. You're just standing here lying like hell. It's about enormous cadaver discipline. That's just the problem. I call Marrakesh, I call it Groninger Gas Field. Do you agree with me that this remark might have been somewhat out of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u131	There are two things. One is what you discuss in a fraction, how you define your position and your input there. In the end, as a VVD group, we go out with one position. The fact that different thoughts, different opinions and different arguments are exchanged there makes perfect sense. I think that's super healthy, too. We're talking about power and opposition in the Chamber. We are talking about power and counterpower between Chamber and Cabinet. And we are also talking about power and counterpower in the VVD-Second parliamentary group. That's what happens when you discuss a position with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u132	But then you are addressed to a position that you are not allowed to express. So far I have been very polite to the VVD, but I have read the book by Ybeltje Berckmoes and now you invite me to open a booklet, because this is really bullshit. Anyway, this wasn't really the reason I came forward. One of the reasons why the information has not been made public is that officials should be protected. Do you not agree with me that this protection is going very far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u133	If you are referring to that point of sharing personal policy views and the exchange of ideas and thoughts between officials and officials, who have not been shared or very limited so far, then I agree with you. They need to be shared more broadly and transparently, as the Cabinet has also decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u135	Mrs. Pouw-Verweij. Something's going off in the hall, probably a phone. Then there is Mr Jetten and Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u136	Excuse me, I was distracted by the sound. I would like to make a point. If the same subject is interrupted seven or eight times, everyone may have agreed to bully a speaker, but it may also be because there is no clear answer in terms of content. I wanted to make that point anyway. A quote has just been quoted a few times about Mr Grapperhaus. I would like to make another quote, and perhaps you will come back to it. It is about Mr Snel: "As far as the facts are concerned, the speaker says he does not give in to this. This would also have a far-reaching impact on other files." Don't give me any facts, because far-reaching consequences. In my group's view, that is inherently political. It's a political decision. That's not what you're suggesting. I like to hear why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u137	The explanation given by my group is as follows. At various times, such as the appreciation of the motion and in a number of letters, it was shared with the Chamber what information could or could not be shared for any reason. That's how we read that phrase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u138	Mr. Dassen. Mr Jetten is a moment away from his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u139	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u140	At the end? Well, then I guess I've got it all figured out. But we still don't know if this is the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u141	Two questions. First of all... In view of the stories I have heard, partly from Mr Jetten, about the previous cabinet, I am very curious to see how political groups deal with agreements made with the cabinet, if that is the case. Of course, we've heard the news coverage of Nieuwsuur. I am just very curious to see what the VVD Group is going to do about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u142	That's a pretty general question. We have no agreement, other than the agreement that the group will define its positions in the group. There is consultation and contact. That's what happens when you work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u143	What agreements will be reached on this contact in that consultation? And who's gonna decide that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u144	We are talking about the question: how do you deal with the power and the opposition, in that administrative culture, but also in that dualism, in the contact between the Chamber and the Cabinet, but also between the coalition group and the cabinet? We need to clarify these agreements. It's not like we have a list of appointments. Mr Jetten also said it in one of his interruptions: it is a way of working that has grown over the past few decades and has taken shape, and we are right to say so, as my group is also saying: it must be different. The contact between Cabinet and Chamber has come too close to each other. So that's what we have to agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u145	That's very clear. When I hear this, I think: what a sick atmosphere there must sometimes be between groups and cabinet. When I hear that people are being sensitized, but also when I look at Nieuwsuur and see how certain MPs are actually being pushed out of the Chamber, because they are too busy putting forward a particular position that is not in line with the cabinet, or the group. Mrs Hermans says that agreements must be made, but I wonder how they should be shaped. How are we going to do that? How are we going to make sure that there really is a change? I hear a lot in this house about the necessary changes, but I hear very little about what we are doing about them now, at the moment. What are you going to do about this as the party leader of the VVD at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u146	I think it does start with your own actions. How do you handle it yourself? How do you shape and content yourself? At least what I find out about myself is that I'm a lot more reluctant and I keep thinking: if I call now, do I have to do it, or do I leave it for a while and find out another way? Let me give you an example. So that's where it starts. At the same time, it goes wider than that. Even if hopefully there will be a cabinet again and a number of parties together form a coalition, how do you deal with it? 'Cause you can't do it completely without consultation and coordination. I do not think that can be done in any organization, not even in this political environment, but where is the limit? We really need to have a debate and a discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u147	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u148	I am concerned that this has not actually happened yet and that there is still no answer to that at the moment. But I have another question. It concerns Article 68 of the Constitution. I heard Mrs Hermans say that it is standing policy not to share policy views of officials, because this is part of Article 68. However, I believe that in 2002 the De Vries letter made it very clear how Article 68 should be interpreted and that this should be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u149	If Mr Dassen has understood that I am still saying that this is an up-and-coming policy, then I must correct that immediately, because in the cabinet's response the cabinet has announced that it will deal with it in a different way. So you can see that in practice, the weighting of what is shared with personal policy concepts was all the time falling to: we do not do that, we do not share that. The cabinet is now saying: we are going to do so much more generously. I think that is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u150	I suggest that you proceed with your speech or conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u151	"Spaceful" is still not in my view: sharing everything. So I'm still worried, because apparently it's up to the cabinet to interpret what's going to be shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u152	I think that's a good question to the cabinet, too. It was in the cabinet's reaction that this was going to happen. A letter from the cabinet was then sent on how to deal with it. Let me put this question to the cabinet immediately: what is the state of play regarding its implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u153	You will continue your speech. I think you've answered a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u154	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I can sort of go to the end of my speech. I have said it a few times: it is right that we should have this debate. Our opinion is, was and remains, I really can't stress enough that there is a cluster catastrophe of epic proportions in this whole child care allowance affair. The staining we have received over the past few weeks confirms that image again. We are therefore going to investigate this matter further in a parliamentary inquiry for legitimate reasons. Until then, however, we must not sit still. In the meantime, we, the Chamber and the Cabinet, have an obligation for parents and children to arrange compensation. That's not gonna happen fast enough. Can you respond to the messages this morning? My colleague Helma Lodders is her name, also by myself, already mentioned a few times today, together with a number of other colleagues has worked on a pause button for the period until 1 May. How does the cabinet deal with that pause button, now that the payout of compensation is going to take longer? I told you, we can't sit still in the meantime. We must do everything we can to prevent this kind of situation in which parents get caught up in government transactions. And we need to work with each other on the administrative culture, in which information is better and dualism is stronger. We do this with 150 MPs, with 24 executives and with thousands of people in the ministries and with implementation organisations. All the people who get up every day to make this country a little more beautiful. I'm sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u155	I waited to see if Mrs Hermans herself brought it up. Yes, she did. For a long time in the debate on the question of information. A lot of questions have been asked about that. Also the question: how do you prevent this in the future? Among other things, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Klaver have just made very concrete suggestions on how, in addition to providing information, you can also strengthen the democratic rule of law and how you can ensure that citizens who are affected by the government can also get their rights. Does Mrs Hermans share with me that these are very good suggestions that have been put forward in the debate? How does it reflect on proposals in the VVD election programme, such as 200 million cuts on implementation organisations and still want to continue working with lists of fraudsters? Are those proposals which Mrs Hermans is now saying: that was in our electoral programme, but given the POK report and also this debate, should we really not begin to do so in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u156	I share the suggestions that have been made. There is much more to be done and we must do so; we owe it to each other and to all people in the Netherlands. Then it's about our election program. There was indeed a cut in the budget, but once you read it exactly, it also said: certainly not on the Tax Office. I think today's debate confirms that. But I also mentioned the lesson that my group set out in January: we need to pay more attention to this implementation and how the policy is going to be implemented. This also means that we are not going to cut implementation organisations with a blunt axe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u157	That's good to hear. After all, it was the Chamber that kept asking and searching until there was a solution or at least a compensation arrangement. But who knows is the next affair with another execution organization. But the painful thing, of course, is that all these parents and citizens have not been able to get their own rights in recent years, because the social lawyer has been broken down, because they have not been able to reach a point of contact anymore, because the rights of the Registry have been increased so that the way to court has become almost impossible. In part, we need to provide better information in order to be able to do our job even better as a Chamber, but in fact we need to ensure that Members of Parliament are no longer needed to get these kinds of affairs over the water, because citizens can get their own rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u158	I agree with you. I think it was in an interruption debate with Mrs Ploumen when you, or Mrs Ploumen herself, mentioned that it ends in 60% of cases in a court of law. That is, of course, a bizarrely high percentage and it should be lower. It can't be that it has to end up there before you as a citizen can get your rights. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u159	Mr Klaver and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u160	In my contribution I referred, among other things, to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In the BuHa-OS debate, MP Weverling said earlier that he thinks that we should stop subsidies to organisations that argue against government policy. And: I am not against criticism, but it should be organised by society itself; we should not buy that. I really think that is at odds with the whole idea of power and counterpower. How does the VVD Group view that, given everything that has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u161	Mr Klaver mentioned this in his speech. It's also a fair question. Let me begin by saying that a healthy democracy cannot be without contradiction. That is why we are allowed to demonstrate, and that is why we are holding the debate in this Parliament, but also in municipal councils, in Provincial States, in Brussels, in all these places. A solid debate, and that's good. That is why there are also civil society organisations that organise themselves on a particular theme, that are committed to this, and that are also angry about it, but sometimes happy when things go well to communicate with the Cabinet or the Chamber. Some of these organisations also receive money, funding, from the government. I think that's good, too, because there are sounds that you might not hear otherwise. Those people will then have the opportunity to make their voice heard in that debate. I also think that is important because I think that it is making this broad contradiction heard, that it makes broad palettes, our policies, our solutions and ultimately our country better. So the fact that there are organizations there is good for me, and it should remain so. You can discuss the amount: how much euros should be sent to a specific organisation. But I don't think that's your question. It is about the principle: do you think that these organisations should continue to be financed? Then I say, the answer is yes. But there's one thing. There are also organisations, and I do not really assume that Mr Klaver means those who are acting against the cabinet or against politics and do so by violating the law or by subjects with which they are actually directly contrary to important free values in our country. I call organizations that preach that you could cure homosexuality. In those cases, I think we should be critical and very strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u162	I agree with you on that last point. But I do think it is important to note that the VVD also says now that is really different from how it was before that when awarding subsidies to organizations we look at the quality and for what values, what greater values, they stand. So it's not about how critical an organization is. It shows that power and counterpower is not just about how we, the parliament, relate to the cabinet, but about the whole society and how we organise it. I think that is important, and I also think that we should record it as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mr Segers. Then we'll go to Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u164	We're talking about power and counterpower. We can say very nice general words about this, that there must indeed be more dualism, more control and more freedom for Members of Parliament to question the cabinet critically. But at the end of the day it will have to be made very concrete in this sense: what are the powers local and in implementation, and what are the powers of the courts to test, for example? This whole supplementing affair has partly come to light because Members of Parliament have started asking questions, but also because citizens have won court cases, because there was a judge of administration who said: there has been injustice here. At the same time, we read in the minutes with Secretary of State Snel that he says: yes, but we are also winning a lot of lawsuits. That's because a board judge can only make a marginal assessment. He can only say: can a government make this decision, yes or no? He doesn't look at the substance in the sense: is it done right to citizens? Suppose we say now: there must be more power and counterpower, there must be justice to people and there must be more attention to human measure. Shouldn't there ultimately be a hardness clause for both judges and performers, so that both the performer and the judge can say 'this is wronged'? Does the VVD group agree with me, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u165	I think that is a very understandable and justified question from Mr Segers. At the risk of saying yes or no here very quickly in this debate, I feel in everything that I agree with you. But may I ask you a question? Mind if I take a moment to think about this? I promise you, in the second term, I will come back to this a little more comprehensively. Because I think that such a question deserves a little more than just a quick response from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u166	Of course, but we have talked about this before and it is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u167	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u168	In the implementation of the welfare bill we have had the message fine: a mother who gives messages to a daughter and an official who says "boys, the law is the law; I must now impose a fine on you." We have seen in this case that the administrative judge could not judge the substance. So it pinches, it hurts, and it really leads to injustice. This is my compelling plea. And we're not talking about this for the first time; it's always been looked at very critically, but please, for God's sake, let's take a look at that marginal judge's test. Let him have the opportunity to test much more thoroughly. I taste some openness; that gives me hope. And I hope that in the second term you will really come to the full acceptance of my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u169	Mrs Hermans will return to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u170	Yes. Perhaps I can give a very brief response, because I share what Mr Segers says. We have also, of course, seen that, precisely in this case, the absence of the hardness clause, which we added later, has caused so many problems. But since you're putting it so wide, I'm gonna have to let my thoughts go a little bit longer on this, instead of answering it here in a few seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u171	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u172	Mrs Hermans has, if I may say so, once started as a political assistant to the Prime Minister. I was wondering when she was gonna let go of that part. Mrs Hermans, what you are doing now is an hour's time. I do not know how long you have been standing there defending everything from the cabinet. And if you do not defend it, then you have invented the trick that you also find something problematic and have questions about it, as you always do with every debate. But of course, things have happened. We already know that the Prime Minister has lied about getting rid of Mr Omtzigt's position elsewhere. In addition, the minutes show that, together with his entire team, he has intimidated members of parliament at least. Documents were deliberately not sent to the Chamber. Whether it's political or not, it'll be my worst. Mrs Hermans, you have to take the consequences of all this together when it comes to this cabinet, don't you? They cannot accept the restoration of this political malaise. You're not gonna let that arsonist head of the fire department stay, are you? What are the consequences? Or will you remain Prime Minister Rutte's political assistant until the end of your political days?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u173	I stand here as group chairman of the VVD and in the last four years I have been MP for the VVD. From that role and from that experience, I stand here and give an opinion on what was in the report and on the debate we are having today. That's the only role I'm in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u174	You're acting like an assistant. There's nothing wrong with being a political assistant. You probably had a really good time. But you are now chairman of the political group and you are still acting as the political assistant, as the bag carrier, as the masseuse or I know what to call it, of the Prime Minister. That's what you do!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u175	Mr. Wilders, I'd like to ask you not to make it too personal. You're talking about your own words, but it's a lot on the person now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u176	I'm sorry. I'm saying what I'm saying, and I'm not taking back a word of that. You are behaving in the words I just used as the masseuse, the Prime Minister's thing. I would like to say that you are of service to the Prime Minister. It's like you don't have your own opinion. You just have to say, "Stop it! You lied to the Netherlands. Dear Mark, you lied to the Chamber when it comes to Mr. Omtzigt. You've memorized the Room pieces. Your team has intimidated MPs. I'm a member of parliament now. I am the group chairman of the largest party in the Netherlands."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u177	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u178	Madam President, you give a great deal of time when Mr Jetten is speaking, about five minutes, and I cannot finish one interruption. What the hell? I want to finish my point. Mrs Hermans, you do not give Mr Rutte of cotton once. You don't say once: unacceptable, you're not the person to do that. I'm asking you again. I hope you will go further than the answer: I am your group chairman. Show me you're the chairman of the political group. Show me you're not Rutte's purse bearer. Show me you have your own opinion. Is he still the man who, together with his cabinet, can ensure that the recovery can happen in the confidence of politics? Or do you think he can't do that anymore? That the arsonist can't stay a fireman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u179	I do not go into all these personal qualifications. I totally disagree. The fact that Mr Wilders wants to hear a different opinion from me is his problem and not mine. I gave the verdict as chairman of the VVD's political group. I've given the judgment that 34... Well, less, because the members of the cabinet who are now in the group are not present at the group meeting in which we form our opinion. So I'm gonna have to take a good count. 31 members of the political groups have formed the opinion I have expressed here. They have said together that 37 pages of minutes, in which so much is said about MPs, are ugly and inappropriate. They also said that Cora van Nieuwenhuizen's statement, which was endorsed by our Prime Minister, that the coalition group cannot take a firmer position than the opposition group, is incorrect, and is false and false. I want the Prime Minister to come back to that statement and state that he agrees. I want him to say that he agrees with me and the VVD Group that there is only one place where the VVD determines its position, and that is in our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u180	And then nothing changes. When the Prime Minister lied about Ommzigt, position elsewhere, he also said: it can't be, it's all wrong and all that. He just lied. He admitted it. He said so himself. He admitted he lied. You said as a political assistant, because that's how you behave from the Prime Minister: well, okay, don't ever do it again; really good, we're moving on. Now it appears once again that the entire Council of Ministers... Mr. Omtzigt is at home now. Mr Omtzigt is at home because Mr Rutte, Mr Hoekstra and all the people in trade union K did not support him in bringing out the truth, but opposed him. And what do you say? You say: well, it hasn't been neat and I want Mr Rutte to say something about that. Show me you've got balls! Show me you have strength! Show that you are an independent parliamentarians who do not take this instead of yet another time the Prime Minister's assistant and bag carrier!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u181	If criticizing or judging can only have power if it ends in sending someone home, sending someone out, I am not participating. My opposition, my criticism, my anger about what has happened here, I say in words, and I ask for a reflection to learn from it and to take steps as a Chamber here in how we deal with it in politics, power and counterpower; I mention those terms once again, and in adapting and modernising our administrative culture to this time. That's what I'm doing here, and that's what I'm judging.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u182	Finally, Mr President. What you're showing, ma'am, isn't power or counterpower. That's one hundred percent powerless. You are powerless here today. You're the Prime Minister's assistant and bag carrier. People don't need reflection. The people who were the victims of that supplemental affair would have been helped if the truth had come out sooner. You didn't do anything about it. In fact, you have made sure that the parliamentarians sitting at home who, together with Mrs Leijten, stood up for those people, have resisted. Now we see that Mr Rutte and his colleagues have opposed him and that he was even wanted to "sensitise" within his own CDA; read: muzzles. You have been jointly responsible for this; at least, the cabinet. You're not saying anything about that. You don't say: this is unacceptable; get out of here when you're dealing with parliamentarians like that. You could have stood up for Mr Omtzigt. You could have stood up for the victims of the supplemental affair. You only show impotence because you are an assistant, a collaborator, a personal assistant to Mr Rutte. That should not be a group chairman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u183	I agree with Mr Wilders that what happened in the child care allowance affair is terrible, that parents have been wronged unprecedentedly and that we must do everything we can to compensate for it and to alleviate the suffering. I have also stressed this on several occasions in my speech. The point at which we are totally different in the game is that you think that, if you make a judgment, that should always end with sending someone out. I don't share that. In fact, I don't want to do that, because I want the Cabinet to get to work, get to work, and the Cabinet to work every minute of the day on what is needed for parents. That's what I'm doing here, and that's what I'm committed to every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u184	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I'm gonna suspend the sitting for a single moment for a stopover, so to speak. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik. Then there's a lunch suspension. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u185	I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The conclusions of the Van Dam Committee on the Surcharges were crystal clear and harsh: for years the Chamber has been incomplete, incorrect and untimely informed, with the result that the truth and extent have been kept under the hat for far too long. The resignation of the entire cabinet was inevitable. My colleague Pieter Omtzigt, together with a number of other colleagues here in the Chamber, has been fighting for years to get all the information out of the table and to solve the problems of thousands of doomed parents. It literally made him sick because of enormous opposition. Mr. Chairman. We are standing here today because the minutes of the Council of Ministers produce a bizarre picture on that very point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u187	That is indeed a good time to stop. I doubt for a moment: Mrs Ouwehand or Mr Wilders. Mrs Ouwehand, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u188	I noticed that Mrs Kuik did not interrupt the VVD, because the rest of the Chamber is quite shocked about that. Mr Omtzigt's motion for a resolution, tabled jointly by Mr Dijkhoff, embraces all the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry. Then, or before that, there was a disagreement created by the Prime Minister. The cabinet says "no political reasons" and the report said so. We just saw the VVD abandon that, from its own conclusion, from its own motion. I find that very shocking. I am really curious why the CDA Group did not want to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u189	Well, there's been a lot of questions asked to the VVD. I don't know if I'd add a lot more if I'd repeat it there. I'd like to tell you how the CDA feels about that. We have, of course, had the Van Dam Committee and we welcome it. It is therefore right that the cabinet has resigned, because it went very wrong. We have been misinformed and incompletely informed. The Prime Minister says that's not for political reasons. That conclusion is up to him. Obviously there is a difference between what is political and what is not, but that is precisely what we had a difference of opinion on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u190	Fine, thank you for this clear answer. So far the stand has been: the whole Chamber minus the VVD still supports the Van Dam Committee, the conclusions, the adopted motion. Only the VVD has withdrawn, but the CDA remains on board. Thanks for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u191	Mr Wilders, if you'll just wait a moment. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Hermans. We have had a long debate with Mrs Hermans, but I understand that she would like to say a few words about this. Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u192	Just a personal fact. I have talked about the whole child care allowance affair and the conclusions that the committee has drawn on it, and that we still support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u193	That's noted. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u194	You must have some nerve when you're called Mrs. Kuik, from the CDA and here in the chair says that it's so bad for Mr. Omtzigt that he's at home because he's been obstructed. You must have some nerve. So I appreciate the guts of the CDA spokesperson. But at the same time, of course, it is extremely hypocritical, because why do you think Mr Omtzigt is at home? Could I ask that first question? How come Mr Omtzigt is at home? Could it have anything to do with the fact that, from the cabinet, the Minister of Finance, Mr Hoekstra, together with Mr De Jonge, put about four knives next to each other, at the same time, in Mr Omtzigt's back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u195	First of all, thank you for the compliment that I have courage. I have already made it quite clear that my colleague Omtzigt, who has put his teeth in this file for years to help parents, has literally become sick of this file and that he has resisted. That is what I started my paragraph with, and I repeat it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u196	And that's it? That was the answer? So my remark that he's resisted... Who did he get in the way of? He wasn't opposed by leprechauns or by Martians. They didn't come to the Netherlands to fight him. There is the man, there: Mr Hoekstra, Minister of Finance, who is now conveniently looking at his phone. Mr. Hoekstra, there he is. He said, as we read in the Minutes, that he and Mr De Jonge were, in my opinion, De Jonge then still political leader; so the old political leader of the CDA together with the new political leader of the CDA will once sensitize Mr Omtzigt. In normal Dutch: we will speak to him, we will sometimes lecture him, we will muzzle him. Fortunately he did not succeed, because Mr Omtzigt was not muzzled, but that was the intention. Mr Hoekstra, the great hypocrite Hoekstra, who previously called him a 24-carat MP, has just beeped him. What do you think of that? Are you also critical of Mr De Jonge and Mr Hoekstra for wanting to sensitise Mr Omtzig in their words? That she just wanted to get Mr. Ommzigt on the straight path, in their eyes? What's your criticism of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u197	I think it is good that Mr Wilders knows what Mr Hoekstra's intention is. I am not Mr Hoekstra's spokesman here. I am the spokesman for the CDA group here. I was just getting started on my story. I'm asking questions here about the bizarre image that came into being. We've all been able to see the minutes. Everyone gives a completely different reading of that too. Now is the time to ask the Cabinet to explain, to give context. I had to look up the word "sensibilise" in the dictionary. Let Mr Hoekstra explain what he meant by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u198	This is really shocking. I really hope that Mr Omtzigt does not look, because then he will see a representative of his group who does not even stand up for him. There is Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the CDA Group. I ask her a question: how do you feel that two leaders of your party, the old and the new leader, wanted to page him? Okay, it says "sensitising," but we all know what that means. That doesn't mean they'd bring him a bottle of champagne to give him a compliment. "Sensitising" means they wanted to call him to order. Luckily, that didn't work out, but they wanted to call him to order. Then I ask the representative, the spokesperson, Mrs Kuik, to answer for Mr Omtzigt, and Mrs Kuik will not go further than to say: come on, say, Wilders, ask Hoekstra nicely. You're not gonna stand up for him for a millimeter. Maybe that's why he's at home: because he feels lonely, because he doesn't feel supported by his own group, by his own rulers. I ask you once again: can you take it up for Mr Omtzigt once, and say that you hate what the CDA ministers have done to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u199	Again Mr Wilders knows better how Mr Omtzigt is in it. Fortunately, I have good contact with Mr Omtzigt. He's sick at home. He has literally become sick of this file and of what the parents have been through. He wants us to solve things. We see again in Trouw today that the problems have not been solved. The point that is constantly mentioned in the Minutes as the name of Omtzigt... The tone and attitude of critical MPs is considered to be the problem and not the suffering of the parents. That's what I'm talking about. I want an answer from the cabinet and a reflection on that. The cabinet states that questions from my colleague, Pieter Omtzigt, from Mrs Leijten, from Mrs Lodders, Mr Azarkan, could not do his job well. But I ask the cabinet if it is not the other way around. Because without that warrior mentality and that stream of questions, the cabinet wouldn't even have started its work. In fact, without that information, the cabinet didn't see for a long time that there was a problem. As a CDA group, we have constantly stressed the importance of parents. Along with Mr. Omtzigt, who fought like a lion before that. It is not for nothing, I say to Mr Wilders, that there is a outgoing cabinet here. It is right that they have resigned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u200	What a confusing and inconsistent answer. Mrs Kuik still does not answer my most important question. Let me say that for the third time. Perhaps one of the reasons why Mr Omtzigt sits at home is that he asks after his loads, which he sometimes asked alone, sometimes with Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan, sometimes had thought that within his own group or at least within the CDA part of the cabinet, someone had thought: jeetjemina, if he asks Omtzigt so many questions, maybe there is something in it. Maybe we should open up. Maybe we shouldn't make all the pieces smaller, but bigger. Maybe we should not talk to those MPs, but we should ensure that the problems become transparent and are resolved. You didn't do that. This cabinet didn't do that. The Minutes show that Omtzigt, and he is not the only one who has been capitalised,'sensitised', silenced, at least, that has been tried. And I'm asking you this for the last time. Otherwise, to my disappointment, I say that the representative of the CDA Group will not go beyond asking a question to Minister Hoekstra when it comes to defending a fellow group member. I think that is so incredibly cowardly and terribly bad for Mr Omtzigt that you do not even have the guts to speak out on that. You would have been a woman if you had said that what Hoekstra has done, along with De Jonge, is unacceptable, whatever the context, whatever they're inventing for excuses about that sensitizing. I stand here on behalf of my group, Mr Omtzigt is a member of my group and I say to Hoekstra: this is the last time, my friend, you should not have done this to us again, you should have said that. Mr Omtzigt would have had a political spokesperson to you, but you dropped him like a brick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u201	If Mr Wilders knows my colleague Pieter Omtzigt a little bit, then he knows that he will not be sent away at all or counter or ask less questions. When it is said: Ask less questions, Pieter Omtzig asks more questions. So I'm not worried about that at all. He is a warrior in that and the CDA Group has always supported him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u202	Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u203	Mrs Kuik gives me the same feeling I had with Mrs Hermans. Mostly questions are asked. Or actually, all they ask is questions. I am just so curious about the opinion of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u204	Perhaps it is useful, because Mrs Kuik was just making her speech, to let her finish her speech first. Is that an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u205	Yes, Mr President, I have spoken a few sentences, so it is remarkable that Mrs Marijnissen is already asking this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u206	I think there has just been an extensive debate; I do not want to repeat that debate, I can do that too. Mrs Kuik's only reaction was that she had questions about it to the cabinet, that she would also like to know if they would like to explain what that means. That's not your opinion, is it? That's not a position of its own, is it? If I may make it even more specific, at the beginning of this month there was also a very strong debate here. That was about "Pieter Overzigt, function elsewhere." A motion of censure has also been tabled by the CDA Group. One of the considerations in that motion of censure was that this has caused serious damage to the restoration of public confidence in the government. Mrs Kuik has also been able to take note of the minutes and knows how the Council of Ministers talks about Pieter Omtzig, among others, but also about other critical Members of Parliament, how they were more busy to move things under the carpet than to solve them. Does the CDA group, I specifically ask Mrs Kuik, not agree that this recital should at least apply to what others in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u207	We have, of course, read those minutes carefully. The image that Mrs Marijnissen paints is, of course, correct. There is a bizarre picture that critical MPs are the problem and not the suffering of the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u208	Yes, but is it an image for Mrs Kuik or is it a problem for the CDA Group? Does the Commission now agree that the wording of the motion 'that it has damaged the restoration of citizens' confidence' now applies to several members of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u209	That applies, of course, to the entire cabinet. The whole cabinet has also rightly resigned. Mr President, let me go right through that point, just to make things right. I would therefore point out that a bizarre picture has emerged, that the tone and attitude of critical MPs were seen as the problem rather than the suffering of parents. I ask the cabinet, which says that it could not do its job properly, whether it is the other way around. Without that warrior mentality, this problem would never have come up. I want an extensive reflection on this point of the cabinet. I see there's still a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u210	Well, you're not answering my question, Mrs. Kuik. Once again, you are asking for a reflection from the cabinet, but I am standing here again and again asking for your opinion, in the opinion of the CDA Group. You say: the cabinet has resigned, and rightly so. But that was before this motion, which was before the debate on 1 April, that was before the CDA Group spoke very firm words about 'Pieter Omtzigt, function elsewhere' and tabled a motion of censure. It was about the betrayal of trust. My only question is: 'I would like Mrs Kuik to reply to that question, whether that does not apply to the rest of the cabinet.'
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u211	That's two different things. We had a debate on a communication to reformers, which was not remembered, about a colleague of ours. Well, that's not what other people are about. Here we are talking about a cabinet that has rightly resigned on a supplemental affair. There have been minutes of this, which also reveals that there are views on critical Members of Parliament. I find the image that emerges from it shocking and disturbing. I find it shocking and disturbing that this was seen as a problem. That is why I ask the cabinet to reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u212	I see Mr. Dassen and Mrs. Van der Plas want to interrupt. Mrs. Van der Plas is a little closer, so she gets to go first. Then Mr Dassen and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u213	I would like to comment on what Mrs Kuik said, namely that Pieter Omtzigt is at home because of the premium affair. I quote Mr Omtzigt from the Leeuwarder Courant of 13 March: "I have been lied to by the cabinet I supported for four years. Yeah, hello, that didn't get me in the cold clothes. There's something in me that hasn't recovered yet." Mr. Omtzigt is not at home because of the surcharge affair. I think the parents who are victims just gave him energy. Due to the government's actions, he was demolished and sucked out. That's what I want to say here as a statement. We shouldn't say that Pieter Ommzigt is sick because of the affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u214	No, but I'm not saying that either. I'm saying he literally got sick because of the huge opposition. We are on the same page in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u215	I don't mean to be a nitpicker or anything, but I think you said...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u216	That was my first sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u217	...that he was at home because of the affair. That's what I was working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u218	If you look back in these minutes, you will see that I have spoken that sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u219	Mr Dassen and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u220	I just asked Mrs Hermans if they made agreements from the VVD on how to deal with the cabinet and the group and dualism. I have the same question for Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u221	In preparation for this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u222	No, generic. You are the chairman of the CDA's political group. You're part of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u223	I wouldn't want to. I wouldn't dare. I am not a group chairman, I am a spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u224	In that capacity, yes. Perhaps this is a nice incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u225	Well, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u226	The question remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u227	I also saw questions from Mr Dassen's party about the way in which these debates have been prepared. We as a group have done so ourselves. The outgoing executives have not been involved. Look, what's coming up here is that we've actually had way too much contact with each other about the cooperation. At the same time, when you're in a coalition, it makes sense for you to work together and make agreements on which motions you're filing, on which motions you're going to support. After all, you have to look for a majority. That's not something crazy in itself. We also see it when it comes to an agreement on nitrogen. The SP is involved, 50PLUS, the SGP. With a group, you can consider how to come up with a proposal in confidence. I call it the pension agreement. PvdA and GroenLinks are involved in the pension agreement: how do we get supported proposals? We need to think about how this happens in a new administrative culture in a good, dualistic way. But of course it is also unworkable when you have no contact at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u228	The question arose because I see that you refer the question about sensitisation to the cabinet. I was wondering: did the CDA group itself realize that Mr Omtzigt was being sensitized?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u229	Then I still have to interpret what the word "sensitising" means. We have, of course, been in close contact with you about the supplementing affair and the questions that existed about it. There was almost no group meeting where this issue was not fully on the agenda. Of course that goes to the ministers: we are on top of it, make sure that the questions are answered properly. That's not crazy. That's not news for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u230	Mr. Dassen, finally, and then Mrs. Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u231	Finally, Mr President. What has the CDA Group done to ensure that this can be prevented in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u232	Keep asking questions and getting the answers you want. That is what Mr Omtzigt has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u233	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u234	I think that every time the Chamber asks the same question, because we want to see if there is a new culture here in how we deal with the cabinet. In this new culture, you can also tackle your political leader, and say "I cannot tolerate these kinds of texts" without having to lead to a motion of mistrust, without anyone being finished for the rest of his life; dealing with each other in an adult manner, speaking the truth and not turning it around. I would be grateful if that could be discussed in your contribution. But my question is about another point: what has the cabinet done about power and counterpower? This cabinet has created a further erosion of the social legal profession. How do you look back on that? But more importantly, how do you intend to restore this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u235	I think it is right that there should be guarantees for people when it comes to legal protection, but also when it comes to good information. People get lost because it's gotten really complicated. I mention, for example, the counters, where you can physically go to a government if you don't get out. Mr Klaver is talking about legal protection, and that is also an important point. You can read back in the letters sent for the formation which points we as CDA consider important. Maybe I could give you a tip? Mr Omtzigt has written a good book in which he makes ten proposals for a new social contract to do it really differently; in it are the real problems of people first and not the image here in this arena. It's about solving people's problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u236	I fully agree with that and we can take steps to that end. This debate can end in two ways. It could be a big mess and deepen the political crisis even further, or it could get us something that would make the country better. One of the things I'm looking at and very worried about is access to justice. Under this cabinet, access to justice has deteriorated. We know that the government is running a huge number of cases against its own citizens, but using legal aid has been made almost impossible. Social attorneys have fought hard for almost everything that's come up. We are often right to talk about our roommates: I am looking at Mr Leijten and Mr Azarkan and Mr Omtzigt. But those lawyers fought and sometimes didn't even get paid for their work. If you really think that we are coming to solutions, that we are doing justice to the struggle of Pieter Omtzigt, the colleagues here and those lawyers, then we will arrange together that the funding of the social lawyer in the Netherlands is well arranged. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u237	I think it is very good that we are going to make proposals here to change things. I will also come up with proposals myself, including those relating to such a new social contract. On a number of points that are part of this, I shall put my proposals to the vote in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u238	Some Members say that they are tabling a motion of censure in the first term, while others say nothing in the first term: you can see what kind of motion I am making. We're having a debate here about the content, aren't we? I would like to make a very specific proposal on social law, and I ask you: can we work together on this? Maybe it'll be a second-term motion, who knows? Maybe it's not going to be a motion and we can reach agreement in another way. I specifically ask you: are you prepared to work with me to solve the problems that have arisen there? Then we really do something for all those people who are still in trouble and who aren't on the radar yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u239	This point has also been raised more frequently in debates by my colleague Chris van Dam. I look forward to seeing Mr Klaver's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u240	I am making a very concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u241	This point has, of course, also been raised more frequently in debates by my colleague Chris van Dam. I would like to see the proposals that Mr Klaver-up-his-sleeve has put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u242	Thank you. Mrs Pouw-Verweij and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u243	I hear Mrs Kuik say that Mr Omtzigt has become ill because of opposition to the file on the premium affair. It's a solid qualification. I actually want to know from her who she holds responsible for that. Is that the whole cabinet? Is that a specific minister or secretary of state? Who is responsible for this opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u244	This, of course, lies with the whole cabinet and with the administrative culture that we have created together. We're part of that, too. It is not for nothing that the cabinet has resigned. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u245	Mrs. Pouw-Verweij? No? Finally, Mr Azarkan. No? Then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u246	Mr. Chairman. For the CDA group, the parents, who have really lost everything, have always been in the first place. Mr Omtzigt has been asking parliamentary questions since 2017 to help people who have fallen between the wheels of the government. For the sake of clarity, there was already a destructive report by the Ombudsman, the ruling of the Council of State and an internal memo-Palmen, which clearly said that there should be compensation. There are logical exceptions to Article 68, which refers to the provision of information, but that should not become a wall to hide behind if the disclosure of relevant information is politically inappropriate. How does the cabinet see it afterwards? I want to know what was put into motion following the unanimous vote on Article 68 of the Constitution. When is this government Commissioner responsible for information management actually coming and what does this proposed task look like? Because the information mess is really big. Where's the state commission? The parents' problems have still not been solved. You can also see that in the article in Trouw today. I would like to ask for a letter straight away explaining the drama of the compensation scheme. We are dealing with a political culture based too much on model realities and too little of the human dimension, and it is possible that people will be ground up. This also applies, for example, to the victims of the earthquake damage in Groningen. We need to get to a new social contract. The ten points that Omtzigt mentions in his book should all be taken over. Like a new balance between power and counterpower, a government that is there for people, a culture where solving concrete problems is once again central and not imagery. Let that also be a lesson to us as a room. Because if we want to get rid of that culture that is focused on imaging, then we will also have to look at ourselves. This culture change is about us. It's about you. It's about me. Because let's be honest: we have campaigned together with our solutions for a better Netherlands, but we've been talking about ourselves for a month now until deep into the night. I see that a lot of people are waiting for concrete solutions. We need to make that happen. My plea is not only to say that together, but also to do so together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u247	Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u248	Mr President, I thought I was just waiting until the end. Mr Kuik says that Mr Omtzigt is sick at home. He's been up against it for four years. I do know that Mr Omtzigt asked his first questions in September 2017. On 14 December 2017 we had an AO about taxes and then we moved together. From then on, and we're talking about more than four years' worth, he's been counterproductive, structural. The Minutes, at least that part we received, show that they were organized. It was not the interests of the MP or the parents and the problems they would face, but their own imagery, the problems they would come into. Couldn't make it small. In the first pieces stood 7 million and by now it is 1 billion. I'm just saying that keeping it small didn't really work out. My question to Mrs Kuik is: do you think it is credible that the Members sitting here are able to do what they have been doing for four years: actively countering MPs, sensitizing, calling to order, talking sense into doing different things from next month?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u249	What this is about, of course, is how we deal with the provision of information to the Chamber. Article 68 of the Constitution has been interpreted in such a way that the exception has become much wider. Much less information was sent to the Chamber than should have been. When everything finally came out in Van Dam's report, the cabinet also said: it was incomplete and incorrect; we must resign. And it is right that that has happened. Then you can ask whether it is credible to go on after that. There have been elections. Everyone in the Netherlands was able to cast their vote again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u250	Everyone's style in the debate, of course, but what I miss, Mr Omtzigt! We heard him talking about the Ruttedoctrine in January. He said that we had a banana monarchy, because we are being paged and treated in a way by the cabinet that is simply not in line with our parliamentary democracy. You are right to say that we saw some kind of revision of Article 68 of the Constitution in 2001. Since then, it has been contained each time, which means that our work in the Chamber is becoming less and less effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u251	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u252	If this has been done over the past ten and a half years under the leadership of this Prime Minister, can you still work with this Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u253	That is, of course, part of a formation process. We need to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u254	My question concerns Article 68 of the Constitution. Among other things, Mr Omtzigt has made it very clear that the cabinet is making a bit of a mess of the Constitution. There is now a procedure under way, and Mr Wilders has already started to find out whether the cabinet has committed a crime of office. I was wondering if the CDA Group could support the fact that we are going to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u255	That's already under investigation. The letter was sent to the cabinet by the chairman. I see that the exception in Article 68 has ultimately been interpreted far too narrowly. The Cabinet has also acknowledged that. It said: we have to do this in a different way. That's what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u256	I do know that the investigation is being started. I think it is important today to know which groups support this research in principle and which groups do not think it is such a good idea. I am, of course, interested in this particularly from the CDA Group. On the one hand, we see Mr Omtzigt. On the other hand, we read in the minutes that the Minister for Justice and Security says: 'Hey, boys, this is possible against Article 68, let's say that we decide to do so.' Then there is some thought about a cabinet response that puts the Chamber on the wrong track. Mrs Kuik will not be surprised if I would just like to know from the CDA Group how she views the discussion on Rule 68. I am pleased to hear that the CDA Group says that the investigation is being started, we have seen the letter from the President; we think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u257	The letter's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u258	In terms of procedure, it may be appropriate to state that the request for a reply is now with the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u259	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u260	That's the stage we're in right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u261	Correct. I hear Mrs Ouwehand talking about Mr Grapperhaus. He would have asked: is it true if we do this? You can explain that in two ways. Mrs Ouwehand explains it as if he wants to limit it. However, he himself had to deal with a case in which he had to bring everything out without mentioning the names of officials. He did a good job. Maybe he wanted to contribute to that knowledge. That's one way to read it. It is up to the cabinet to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u262	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u263	I actually hear Mrs Kuik say that the cabinet has yet to respond, but I am confident that, for example, Mr Grapperhaus will press for a response that corresponds to the needs of the Chamber. We really need to find out if there's been a criminal offense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u264	I don't see it that way. In view of the past, in which Mr Grapperhaus has done very well, I can also see that there is a precedent that it did go well. So on that point I will give him the benefit of the doubt and approach this text a little more positively than Mrs Ouwehand does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. We're halfway there now. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 2:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u266	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21 for her first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To begin with, my group is not shocked or dismayed. Not because it is not a serious matter, but because what we read in the Minutes is just so recognizable for rotting in The Hague politics. Because honestly, who believes that there are still Dutch people who think that dualism is very much alive, that coalition members do not have to walk in the ranks, and that critical MPs who offer the power against power are appreciated instead of bloody irritant? No one's gonna believe that anymore. Understandable. It would have been more shocking if there had been anything else from the Minutes than we know now. And that might be the worst part. The culture that rises from the minutes that have been released is exactly the culture that needs to be broken. Ministers who are "their" Members of Parliament are already going to have to raise their awareness. Ministers who see MPs doing what they're elected to do with contempt as a bunch of media-conscious activists. Those coalition groups write in confidence and put the rest of the Chamber at a virtually unbeatable disadvantage. Those who try to keep the information to the Chamber to an absolute minimum and together invent tricks and word games to cover it up. An administrative culture in which a government agreement has become a strangle contract, in which independent operations are seen as violating conditions. Instead of a penalty clause, a function as a sanction elsewhere. An incestuous culture, in which cabinet and civil service are totally interwoven and covering each other is considered more important than the constitutional, controlling role of the Chamber. In short, an administrative elite who sees a cabinet and its maintenance as an end in itself rather than as a means to help the Netherlands move forward. It is precisely this culture that has meant that we have only talked about ourselves since the elections on this few square metres. While entrepreneurs are on the brink of collapse, more and more ordinary people don't know how to make it to the end of the month and seriously ill patients are being delayed by scaling down hospital care, it's all about who said or wrote what when, who finds who annoying and why we haven't heard it before. As important as today's debate is, millions of Dutch people are wondering what the hell we are doing with each other here. And all because saving one's own ass for the cabinet was more important than giving the citizens their rights. Many specific questions have already been asked today. In addition, I would like to make one fundamental point. As a common thread through the minutes, but actually through this whole file, the unwillingness to compensate the affected parents generously for the possible precedent effect on other files. Let that get through to you! Our cabinet does not want to compensate people who are entitled to it because then other people, who also have the right to be compensated, must be compensated. Then who's "K" here for? If anything symbolizes the culture we're talking about today painfully, it's this chilly, calculating attitude. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The big question for JA21 remains whether and how the parties involved, the cabinet and, in particular, Mr Rutte, can regain the confidence of the Chamber, and whether it is possible to break the culture of backrooms, withhold information and have a mockery of dualism. Can we do that with these people at the helm? Can a culture be broken by the people who are the embodiment of that same culture? Do we believe in that as a room? That is the question I ask myself as an auditor of power. That question needs to be answered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u268	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Jetten van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u269	Mr. Chairman. My first conclusion after reading the documents is that the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance has done its job well. Their conclusions are confirmed. Firstly, the extent and depth of the supplement dossier became too late, too late, clear. Secondly, the own information system at the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration is poor. Thirdly, the provision of information to the Lower House was not in order. The consequences of this are well known. Human lives have been destroyed and compensation has taken too long. The cabinet rightly has the most far-reaching political consequence of this by giving its resignation in full. But the publication of the minutes also reveals something else. On the one hand I see a Lower House that asks and rightly asks, but sometimes also very much asks. On the other hand, I see a cabinet that is always surprised and then tries to do justice to the situation that has arisen, but too often fails to do so. Mr. Chairman. You read between the lines through the powerlessness and the inability of the cabinet to solve that quickly and in one go. This raises the question of my group to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance how this struggle with information from their own departments has hampered their political functioning. And what, with the knowledge of today, would they do differently? Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on what has caused most of the dust in recent days, namely the fact that Members of Parliament have been mentioned in the Trêveszaal. That was not in itself news, because that was also reflected in the final report of the parliamentary interrogation committee. But what we do know, thanks to the publication of the minutes, is at what tone was spoken. Let me be very clear about this: it should not have been so. That was unnecessary, undesirable and inappropriate. That is what I am saying to the rulers of my own party. All rulers should have kept their eyes on the ball, not on the person who asked them questions. What was the reason for these disgusting reactions? Was it frustration about the case, its own impotence, or was it frustration about the Chamber? I'm asking the Cabinet to explain that. In this respect, I feel more at home with the words of Sigrid Kaag in the Council of Ministers, who said that it is a healthy sign that there is a fierce debate, including by members of coalition groups. But I ask the Prime Minister why he did not support her words and why he agreed with party colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen, who felt that it would not be acceptable for coalition groups to take a stronger position than opposition groups. Why has he allowed this discussion as President of the Council of Ministers at all and even encouraged it, by stating the words of Van Nieuwenhuizen? Mr. Chairman. Because critical MPs, whether they are coalition or opposition members, are part of it. In that light, there is also something positive to conclude from these minutes. Many cabinet members may have wanted less dualism, but coalition members were not sensitive to that. Let us continue to adopt this attitude as a chamber in the coming years. I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. There is a need for a structural adjustment of our political culture, with more power and counterpower, with more consideration for the human dimension in policy, legislation and implementation, an easy path to justice if you are being crushed in the system as a citizen, not a blur between roles and not a monist political culture. That was all from a previous period, and that also applies to the limited interpretation of Article 68. The minutes of the Council of Ministers once again show that it is very sensible that the working methods of Rule 68 have been adapted. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u270	Thank you. I shall then give the floor first to Mrs Ploumen and then to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u271	I think that what stirred up most of the dust in recent days, at least in my group, is the fact that the doomed parents have still not been compensated. This week we read reports every other day that it takes even longer and is once again a mess. However, proposals have been made for a long time, since 2019, to ensure that those damaged parents are compensated. I am going to tell Mr Jetten a few of those proposals. March 2019. A motion by Mr Azarkan asks for all parents to be approached, to give them clarity and insight into their files and to ensure that there is a generous financial compensation and not just an apology. D66 votes against. November 2019. Mr Van Nispen requests the cabinet by motion: give reasonable compensation to social lawyers. D66 votes against. February 2021. Mrs Leijten requests that the victims elect their own lawyer instead of someone assigned to them. D66 You'll probably be guessing it already voted against. Colleague Nijboer, December 2020, asks that within one month, all disabled parents should be offered an offer to compensate them, because it is taking far too long. D66 votes against. 27 May 2020. Another colleague Azarkan, together with Leijten and Van Raan, says: "The people have no insight into their files. The files are incomplete. Make sure that the burden of proof is reversed in favour of the people who have been duped." D66 votes against. You should be ashamed of that now, shouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u272	Let me start with Mrs Ploumen's first comment. When you read the article in Trouw this morning, you actually want to know exactly what's going on. Of course, thousands of parents have been compensated in recent weeks. I also get emails from parents who say they're happy to be able to look ahead again, because they've had that compensation. However, yesterday I went through a number of emails with our spokesperson from parents who still have no clarity as to whether or not they are covered by this Catshuis regulation. I therefore very much agree with Mrs Ploumen that we should pay particular attention to this. Then Mrs Ploumen did not even make a complete list of motions tabled by the Chamber in recent years, which D66 voted against with the coalition groups. I have not for nothing in the debate at the beginning of this year, nor do I remember the exact date in which we first spoke about the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee on behalf of my group, apologized to all the victims of this affair. As far as I'm concerned, that's not just about the last few years when we tried to focus on what was going on and try to find a solution for those parents. At that time, I also apologized for the initial phase in 2013, in which we, with the entire Chamber, wanted that tougher fraud approach. We participated in that as D66. At several times that just didn't go well. At the same time, I think that Mrs Ploumen's examples show very well the dynamics that belong here in this house. You have a cabinet that's supported by coalition groups, and that's trying to solve things and make things better in this country. It is counting on the support of coalition groups that sometimes give a little more space to rulers to reach that solution, while opposition parties are more on top of it and choose a different approach. The motions you mention are, in my view, all opposition motions that were voted down by the coalition at the time. If some of these motions had been adopted earlier, we might have come to a better solution for those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u273	"Were they hired before"? You could have made a difference in the vote in this Chamber, but perhaps even more so in the proportion that was created on Monday morning. Every Monday morning, I met you and the Prime Minister on my route to parliament. You had a coffee in your hand and you went to the coalition meeting. That is where you could have made the difference. You didn't do that. So I would like to ask you one more question: should you be ashamed of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u274	Well, that coalition meeting wasn't always cozy. Let me put that in front of you. I too have often been excited about the supplemental affair in recent years. The same goes for Mr Steven van Weyenberg, who spoke on behalf of our group in recent years. We, too, have often asked the then Secretary of State and the current government whether it can be done faster or better or whether it can be done more quickly. What the parliamentary interrogation committee has shown very well with the interviews that are confirmed by these minutes, I think, is that because of this very poor information we have not managed to find a better solution before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u275	These motions, even at a relatively early stage, are designed to identify the problems and to indicate directions for resolution. It is your Minister, Mr Koolmees, who we can all quote from the Minutes now that he is displeased with activist MPs. It was your Secretary of State Snel who wanted to compensate €500 to the parents. You've been a part of this cabinet. You could have made a difference with your seats. From July 2019 it was clear that there was a problem. You insist that you have looked to that honor and conscience, but have been unable to do anything. That's just not true. If there's nothing you can do, you have nothing to do in a cabinet. You're there for those people. Let us also make that clear. This isn't so much about what you're discussing with your coalition associates. That's all fine. This is about a government turning against its own innocent citizens. This cabinet has allowed that to continue, and your party is part of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u276	Mr Jetten and then Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u277	First of all, about the last few years. The title of the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee is unprecedented injustice. That is a very striking title, because thousands of parents have been wronged unprecedentedly, and some of those parents are still waiting for that compensation and that solution. You just mention that $500 from Secretary of State Snel. I would like to dwell on that. For Menno Snel has resigned from this Chamber as Secretary of State because he felt that he did not have sufficient support in this Chamber to find an effective solution for those parents. I think it is a testament to leadership that Menno Snel dared to draw that conclusion here and gave up his place in the cabinet, so that someone else could do better. The compensation he proposed was even against opinions. We had been advised by the Donner Committee, among other things, that you should not compensate for these situations. The cabinet has not taken any interest in this and has continued to look to do so. Thanks to pressure from the Chamber, the scope of this group has increased. Mrs Leijten managed at the last minute to get more parents to claim it. Fortunately it didn't stay at €500 either, but it has become a decent amount to help a lot of those parents out of the fire. And yes, this cabinet, which also contained D66, could have solved this sooner and better, but that could have been done by the previous cabinet and the cabinet. We had a fierce debate of interruption earlier and I was also a bit fierce in that because the mandate of the interrogation committee goes from 2013 to 2019. What that committee has done very well is to distinguish three stages. One, who constantly calls for a harder fraud approach. We were all there, then we were all wrong. Two...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u278	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u279	I'm almost done. Two, a wrong view or no idea of the execution and no idea at the Rutte II cabinet what went wrong in that execution. And three, the final phase that the interrogation committee is very hard on, is that in Rutte III we didn't know the finger on the sore spot and didn't know the extent of this scandal. Three phases, therefore, where three Cabinets and three Chambers have left it and fortunately we have arrived at this point thanks to a number of well-wrapped Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u280	Finally. Those fraud laws, the SP and the Labour Party voted against them. My party leader Louis Asscher has resigned, has taken responsibility for his role. And three, since July 2019, could have taken action in that cabinet in which D66 is in. But what happened? People have been concerned about imagery, about precedent. Until the last three or four months, Mr Jetten and his party had the opportunity to vote in favour of motions tabled in this Chamber, which would ease the fate of the people affected and help them. D66 hasn't done that until those last few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u281	The fact that we did not support all of the opposition's motions does not mean that my own group or other coalition groups were not in the process of finding a solution to this surcharge affair. Should it have been faster? Should it have been better? Yes. All this has been clearly mapped out by the parliamentary interrogation committee. Let me say one last thing, Mr President. When I read the report, in December, it was clear to me on the same day that only one conclusion could be drawn from that report, namely that the Rutte III cabinet should resign. If they hadn't gotten to that themselves in the church streets, my group would have supported a motion of censure on this because we found unprecedented injustice to contain such harsh conclusions that the cabinet couldn't draw any other conclusion than to resign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u282	Thank you. Mrs van der Plas and then Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u283	I note that here too a lot of words are being used to answer a question from Mrs Ploumen in this case, when in fact only a few letters are needed, and that is simply to apologize to her questions. "Sorry, indeed, we did not." Elton John already sang it: sorry seems to be too hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u284	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr President, for a moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u285	Wait a minute. Mrs. Van der Plas first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u286	That's one. Two: you just addressed the Prime Minister about facts such as 'activist MPs', a fierce debate, but I think you forgot what Mrs Kaag said about that fierce debate. She said: a fierce debate is okay, but we do need to specify the framework within which that debate should be conducted. For a party like D66, which has a high priority for democracy, I am shocked. Because it is true that the cabinet wants to decide how to debate the Chamber. But I can't hear you about that. What do you think of the words behind them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u287	First of all, on that first point. I have here in the previous debate on the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee, which was still made with the previous Chamber of Inquiry on behalf of the D66 Group. I'm still in favour of that. This applies not only to the group I myself have been able to lead in recent years, but also to the D66 effort in the years before that. I sometimes give a more detailed answer, because this is one of the toughest issues we have discussed here in recent years. We're a long way from here. We haven't finished settling that affair yet. We have not finished improving political culture. I give a more detailed answer now and then, because I take this seriously. Then about Mrs Kaag's words. Fortunately, she said in the Council of Ministers that fierce debates, including with coalition members, are just part of it and that ministers should get used to it. She's in "K" now, because that's what the Chamber wanted at the beginning of the debate. I therefore think that she should reply to the question as to what she meant by the word 'frameworks'. In my view, Mrs Hermans was the only one who asked Mrs Kaag about this. We're about to hear the answer to that. But let me explain it on my own. In recent years, as group chairman of a coalition group, I have had regular discussions with my colleagues in the coalition about how we deal with each other. We have never silenced or silenced each other or anyone else's MPs there. We have addressed each other in ways of dealing with each other, in the way in which you debate with each other: it may be hard on content, but with respect for man. We have a coalition agreement that we will try to stick to each other, otherwise nothing will happen in this country. That's how I'd fill out "frames" myself. But the question what Mrs Kaag meant by that has to be answered herself in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u288	But it's not about making agreements with MPs about how we deal with each other. It is about the cabinet wanting to impose on the Chamber how to discuss it. But that's not how it works. The last time I looked, the cabinet was in the service of the House of Representatives. We are representatives of the people. We represent the people. We're supposed to check the cabinet. The way in which a debate is held is not at all up to the cabinet. That is not up to Mrs Kaag or Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen. That's not up to them at all. My question is therefore: I hope, of course, that Mrs Kaag will also answer this question. What, as a member of the party and former leader of the political group, do you think you are told by a minister that you should not debate as you might like?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u289	I repeat what I have just said: it should not have been; it was unnecessary, undesirable and inappropriate. That is what I say to the rulers of my own party. That was just in my own text. That's what I think. But at the same time, when I read the minutes... I didn't know they'd discussed that with each other at the ministerial council. We didn't care about it and we didn't care about it. For Mr Omtzigt has really become no less critical and keen on the supplementing affair after it had taken place in the Council of Ministers. That's how I've heard complaints about Salima Belhaj when it comes to Hawija or Tjeerd de Groot when it comes to the whole nitrogen affair. That's how people talk about each other, but the good thing is that coalition members haven't been interested in that in recent years. I hope that we will not do that with all 150 Members of Parliament in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u290	I hope so with you, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u291	Then Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u292	Now Mr Jetten said that he himself had received such a call from one of today's leading players. How'd that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u293	That's from a long time ago, like I said. That was just in the first weeks of this Chamber period. That was a fierce phone call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u294	What did that do to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u295	Well, I was mostly surprised, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u296	Did you adjust your behavior to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u297	No, and I also hope, as I said in reply to Mrs van der Plas, that we, with 150 Members of Parliament, realize that we are the representatives of the people here, that we are the co-legislator but above all the controlling power of the cabinet. Whoever and whatever parties will sit in a new cabinet: let us support each other in order to always be able to assume that critical role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u298	I think it is nice that Mr Jetten dealt with it in this way, but it does of course mean that this minister did this to someone who was a Member of Parliament for a few weeks, perhaps eight or nine years ago. Of course, it is also not credible that it was apparently discussed in the Council of Ministers, but that it apparently never came to the Members of Parliament. Haven't you ever noticed that your colleagues or yourself had to talk to people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u299	No, look, I've never been asked to call people on anything and then let them be less critical MPs. Much has been written in recent days, but there are two pieces in the newspaper that I found interesting and I would like to highlight: an opinion piece by Eppo Bruins, former member of the Christian Union, and a column by Johan Fretz in Het Parool. In my opinion, these two pieces reflect very well the tension that sometimes surrounds coalitions. At some point, you choose to conclude a coalition agreement with each other and support a cabinet, in this case with four coalition groups, so that it can implement the coalition agreement. If you want to do this in a decent and effective way, you need to consult with each other once in a while, on the implementation of the coalition agreement, on things that coalition groups want differently. You will then have to reach an agreement with those four groups. In those constellations, you sometimes find that people are irritated about each other, that MPs find it annoying how another coalition member acts, that a ruler finds it unpleasant that the coalition groups in a debate are more critical than the opposition groups. But you can talk to each other about that, I think. That is what you have to say with each other, so that you can continue to work well with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u300	Mr Azarkan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u301	That's another point. I heard Mr Jetten say something that Mr Van Weyenberg always said, and that is a bit painful, especially for the victims. They say, "Oh, man, tell the real story." Mr Jetten said: they were impotent, they did not have sufficient vision of the problem. It just isn't. In 2017, in August, that report came from the Ombudsman. I read that back then. It states that people had to wait an average of 18 months for the statement of objection to be dealt with. In it, it is clear that people were made impossible by a powerful government. It says the government has to compensate those people. The problems were there at the time. I remember in December 2017 I myself indicated that there was probably a factor of 100 more victims, so maybe 23,000. Well, it's now 30,000, the kids add up. So you shouldn't make a claim, I say through the chairman... I find that a painful point, Mr. Jetten. The problem was there, but this cabinet, also led by your secretary of state... he was in a tunnel. I was really surprised when he said at one point: I came out of that tunnel of denial. He was denying it. The facts were there, the reports were there. Everything was there, but he just didn't want to see it. So it's not wrong information from the organization, the Tax Office, and it's not powerless. It's unwillingness and at some point ignorance. I think it's okay if you just acknowledge that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u302	I tried to look back in the minutes which passage hit me the most, but of course it's also about the parents. Every individual who spent years at home and was ground up in the system naturally finds it incomprehensible that we here in The Hague did not realize how bad it was. And there have indeed been reports. There have been advices that have already shown that there was something wrong with these supplements, that parents were in trouble by the government and that they may have been mistakenly called fraud. What I saw in the interrogation of the parliamentary interrogation committee and in the final report, but again in the Minutes, is that the extent of this problem became much too late, how many parents were affected by it and how hugely they had gotten into trouble because of this problem. That's what I noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u303	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u304	Finally, because we are getting a little closer together in the sense that the size indeed became known later. The size was probably greater than expected. But it was clear what the situation was with those parents. They came to a judge and were sometimes laughed at. They sometimes came to someone from the IRS or the UVW and they had to sit behind the window because they didn't have any money. They begged for payment arrangements to be admitted to the Wsnp, and they just weren't admitted. So it was very clear. If you'd just sat down with those parents and read the file, you could have known that already in 2017. That's really not complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u305	Many of us have had conversations with the parents of that supplementing affair in recent years. I really don't get as much as you, Mrs. Leijten or Mr. Omtzig does, but every story you hear affects you enormously. This is still true of the Secretary of State, who is constantly talking to these parents. That is why I also asked a question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. What was the problem was that because of the poor information system in the department and at the service by questions from the Chamber, the size of the problem really did not become clear at once. We all had cases that could show that something bad was going on, but the size, the number of parents affected, just didn't come out of the Tax Administration's systems with one push of a button. That did not come up in answers to parliamentary questions that have been asked, because you and others have very often had to ask these questions in order to ultimately reflect the extent of the overall problem. So with that, I am absolutely not playing down the misery that has been done. It has taken too long for the full extent of this to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u306	Thank you. Then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u307	Thank you, Mr President. I have just heard Mr Jetten say that the improvement of political culture is not yet complete. I think the question is whether the improvement of political culture has been used at all. That is why I would like to consider what happened to the contribution of the VVD Group. Thanks to hard work by MPs, the Van Dam Committee came. On behalf of all of us, he's drawn conclusions that didn't lie about it. We had a debate on that. The cabinet said, through Mr Rutte, 'Okay, we embrace that report, except for this; it was not for political reasons'. With the motion by Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Jetten, the Chamber has also said its name: we endorse the findings, all the findings. I noticed that Mr Jetten did not come forward at the VVD and said: but what is happening here? Do you now withdraw from this unanimous Chamber conclusion, namely that that report is normal and that it was indeed for political reasons? I wonder what the D66 group is like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u308	I and my group still fully support all the conclusions of the parliamentary interrogation committee and also the Dijkhoff motion. There was just a lot of interruptions to Mrs Hermans. It was not clear to me at some point what the discussion was about, so I asked Mrs Hermans another question. Later, I think she came to the interrupting microphone herself to add something to that. So I hope that we can also conclude with new parties in the Chamber at the end of this debate that 17 parties now support those conclusions of the interrogation committee. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to quote from that report, because I think it is a good thing that we all have that clear: 'The poor provision of information has repeatedly led to a serious obstacle to the political functioning of rulers'. Then there's a piece of what's all set out in the law on the provision of information. And then there is a very important passage: "Despite this, the provision of information was, as is clear from the Committee's investigation, motivated in several cases by desired legal or political outcomes, resulting in only partial, delayed or non-disclosure of information." That is a harsh conclusion of the parliamentary interrogation committee and it is still standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u309	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u310	Glad to hear that from the D66 group. Then I have a follow-up question, because there was a difference of opinion. The Prime Minister said I embrace the report, but not this conclusion. The Chamber said: we simply support the committee of inquiry, so we do think it was for political reasons. Now we have all read the Minutes. Then you can conclude two things: either the Prime Minister has lied very loudly here again, and that means quite a bit for political culture. I'll just mention what "here separates our ways" we've heard from the D66 forewoman; or this Prime Minister doesn't recognize the difference between political interests, interests of his own cabinet, interests of his own party, and what is in the interest of the Netherlands, which is in the interest of openness, transparency and respect for the Constitution. Both seem very problematic to me. Yet I see D66 moving along in reducing these problems. Minister Koolmees said on television: yes, but we have already paid the highest price and we could not do more than we have done. I find that worrying, especially when we are looking for what we really need to change...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u311	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u312	...for a healthy political culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u313	We've started the revolution. I'm sure you will. It is not for nothing that we have talked so much about these issues in recent months. I have just mentioned some of the things that Mrs Ploumen and Mr Klaver have brought into this debate, such as social law, registry rights and the passage as a citizen to a point of contact where a person can help you. That is one part of the solution that we need to find in the years to come. I was pleased to hear Mrs Hermans' reply in which she said that in the VVD programme on the reduction of implementation, some new insights have now come from that group. The other side is that political culture. Among other things, it deals with the provision of information from the cabinet to the Chamber. In the debate on the report of the interrogation committee, the Chamber drew a different conclusion from the cabinet at the time. Well, then I find the Court's conclusion more relevant. Much more important is what has changed in practice than now. In my view, this is mainly about how Article 68 of the Constitution is applied. The committee has found that protecting personal policy views of officials can be a legitimate reason not to disclose documents or only partially. But that is what we said after that report: that too close explanation of Article 68 is no longer possible. As a Chamber, we want not only good information, but also more often the documentation behind it. In January, therefore, a revolution in this political culture has indeed started, but it is certainly not yet finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u314	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u315	I have already mentioned it in my contribution: the question was, of course, always whether the decision of the cabinet to resign was intrinsically motivated. Or was it because they felt that there was really no other way to do it, because of the Van Dam Committee? Does the cabinet mean this, and can we therefore trust that it will take the right steps on its own to do justice to the Statute of the Chamber and to do justice to the Constitution? Or was it a bit for the stage? Then I am surprised that D66 has made so much fog over the past period of time as to what they say that the Prime Minister is lying to the Chamber every time, or says that he can't remember or says he doesn't know the difference between political interests and motives and the national interest. I refer to this because Mr Jetten also said: well, it is good that we have a different interpretation of Article 68 of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u316	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u317	That's a cigar from your own box, says Professor of State Law Wim Voermans as well. It never would have been. So the Cabinet is now returning something to the Chamber that she should never have taken away. Where's D66's judgment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u318	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u319	'Cause it was his cabinet, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u320	I don't understand this point. The way in which Article 68 has been implemented has been in place since 2002. During that period 2002-2020, many different parties and MPs often asked the question whether this should not be more generous. We finally got that together since January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u321	I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen. Mrs. Ouwehand, you have very long interruptions. A very brief question, because then Mr Jetten will understand the specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u322	Something has to be fixed here. Because it wasn't the 2002 line. With Mr Knops' letter, this cabinet has opted for an even wider interpretation of Rule 68. Even wider than the 2002 line. That is now being reversed, but I think it is too far to give applause for that. I believe that this includes the judgment that this should not have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u323	Oh, come on, Mrs. Old Hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u324	I think that's part of the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u325	Let's not be silly. We're both not here to applaud, we're both taking this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u326	Mrs. Marijnissen, for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u327	We just had the VVD group, which suddenly does not accept all the conclusions of the interrogation committee, and now I belong to Mr Jetten as well. I keep hearing him say that the cabinet would have acted out of power. He doesn't want to acknowledge that's for unwillingness. I'll fight that. D66 played a leading role in that. Mr Jetten also made the point that would not have been known to involve more people, but how does he explain that in August 2019 he had his own Secretary of State Quickly a piece in which he said that in that so-called CAF case it would be 300 people first, 8 000 to 10,000 parents? It was well known, then, at least at the D66 Secretary of State, that it was a much larger group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u328	In the end, he has become even bigger than the group that has already been mentioned. Thanks to Mrs Leijten, it has been ensured that as many parents as possible can actually claim the compensation scheme of Secretary of State Van Huffelen. Step by step, the problem has been mapped out. That's what I've been trying to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u329	That is something that is fundamentally different from what Mr Jetten has just said. Then you said: it was not known that there were many more people involved. It was well known, at least by Secretary of State Snel and, as we now know, by the whole cabinet, but not by the MPs at the time, that it would be thousands, thousands, thousands of people anyway. And another follow-up, because it's getting worse, Mr. President. Not only is it known at that time that there are thousands, thousands of people involved. No, we also know that at that time, it was actively decided to continue with coercive actions and expulsions among all those thousands of people, at the suggestion of your Secretary of State, because people were afraid of image damage, the problem of delineation mentioned, the risk of precedent and not forgetting how harsh it could be. (b) the loss of tax revenue. So we're talking about innocent people being hunted down by the government, knowingly and knowingly. It's known that it's a big group and then say "no, we're just gonna go through with it, otherwise we're gonna miss out on tax revenue"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u330	My group has not for nothing supported a motion by Mr Omtzigt, but it could have been someone else who supported a motion to put an end to this part of the problem; these coercive actions. As a chamber, we just didn't agree with the cabinet. As far as the examples you are referring to are concerned, I fully agree with you. I think that is such absurd arguments. At the time when such a supplemental affair talks about compensation, you should not say: "Oh, well, then perhaps there is a precedent effect." No, that's gotta be a trigger. In fact, you have to ask the question: boys, is this also happening to other implementation organisations; are we, as a government, also abandoning Dutch citizens on other files, grinding them into the system? That had happened when the question of precedent was asked. That should have been the trigger to monitor and solve all those implementing organisations at once. So I fully agree with Mrs Marijnissen that you do not want to see such words, such texts, in the minutes of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u331	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u332	That's good. But that's after and it's too late for those parents. It was the D66 Secretary of State who decided to do so. The big point, of course, is that we did not know this as a Chamber then, because it was not told to the Chamber then, despite constantly asking questions: how many people are involved, is this not calculated? The room was sent into the woods. Because we were getting signals from parents themselves, I mentioned that in my input, which was picked after all, we knew it was going through. That's why we knew, and that's why the Chamber could come forward with that motion. But of course it is a question of the cabinet meeting and actively deciding on this 'we know that the group is bigger and we know that it is no good, but we are going to continue, because imagine that we are missing tax revenue', on the backs of those people. Then I find, Mr. Jetten, that you really can't say that this cabinet was powerless anymore. This wasn't powerless. This has happened knowingly and it would be really good if you would acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u333	I said, and I think we can all draw our own political conclusions from what the interrogation committee found, that the cabinet's powerlessness and inability to resolve this was and I still support it. Inability and inability, because it just didn't work out. The frustration and indignation that Mrs Marijnissen felt, I felt very much when the report of the interrogation committee came out in December and we talked about it in January. I have just tried to make that clear in my introduction: the size and depth of the supplement dossier. The poor information system of Finance and the Tax Administration and the poor information provision to the House of Representatives have all led to this having taken so long. That's all inconvenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u334	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs van der Plas, then to Mrs Pouw-Verweij and then to Mr Wilders. I would ask Mr Jetten to be a little shorter and more concise. This also applies to some of the interruptions. I am not saying that to Mrs van der Plas, because her interruptions are always brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u335	I'm from Deventer. There lives Mr. Ben Strik, who is known for the sketch "basket!'. Do you remember him? Okay, let's get this over with. I was just wondering. Mr Jetten has, of course, been present at this coalition. I'm actually curious how he talked about Pieter Ommzigt there. What was his input? Was he happy with Pieter Ommzigt? Did he defend him? Did he say to him: Ask any more questions to the Secretary of State? I hope that Mr Jetten will share this with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u336	First of all, perhaps the coalition talks. That is what I myself have been talking about and Sigrid Kaag has also done so in the campaign "One has often said that it has become normal for you to have such extensive coalition discussions every Monday. That doesn't fit in with more dualism, let me put that first. We have talked in the coalition over the last few years about all kinds of issues that have been going on: from nitrogen to the premium affair. That's where we've never been able to measure each other. Nor have we ever asked each other to call in MPs. We talked about whether we felt the responsibility of each other to solve this and how we could do it as best we could.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u337	That's not an answer to my question. I asked how Mr Jetten spoke about Pieter Omtzigt in the coalition. How were you in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u338	I don't think or don't often. I have also often spoken with Pieter Omtzigt myself about this whole dossier and what we as Chambers and coalition groups can do to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u339	I take it from the answers that Mr Jetten does not really want to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u340	I can't answer that much anymore. During such a coalition consultation you try to manage the workings of those four coalition groups a little bit, so that you do not constantly surprise each other and you can carry out the coalition agreement, but there is also room for groups to make their own contribution to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u341	In my opinion, it's very simple: either you answer the question that you weren't really very happy with him, or that you defended him very often, or that this is actually private, that it was a private meeting and you don't want to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u342	It is not for me alone to quote from those consultations. You should be able to do that confidentially if you want to run a coalition well with each other. But to be quite honest, we have not talked about individual Members of Parliament very often in these coalitions in recent years. That is why I do not have much to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u343	Finally. It doesn't have to be super common. There's one thing you can do to destroy people. I don't mean to say you did, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u345	I have just heard Mr Jetten say that we as a Chamber are the representatives of the people. I agree. But the Council of Ministers, which you support, found... sorry, which Mr Jetten supports, I say through the chairman. It gets used to sometimes. They felt that they could decide what information the House of Representatives gets. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that this is up to the Chamber and not the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u346	As a Chamber itself, we are dealing with the question of what information we are asking for. The cabinet then has to assess how it can share the information with us. I think that we have found that in recent years there has been too close an explanation of Article 68, so too often we did not get the documents we wanted as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u347	How credible is it then... D66 talks about new leadership, a new governance culture and transparency, and about the Chamber again in charge. D66, however, has supported this cabinet for four years. It was a D66 Secretary of State who made these statements. I would like to hear how Mr Jetten points that out. How does he connect the two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u348	In my view, the Secretary of State must, like any other member of the government, abide by the agreements made in the Council of Ministers on information sharing. I think we should appeal to the entire cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u349	I had the same question as Mrs Van der Plas just did. I must say that I have rarely heard such an evasive answer from Mr Jetten. So let's just face it: you were three years, or two and a half years, from 2018 to the elections of 2021, I say by heart, group chairman of D66. You were in all that coalition transfer, just at a time when it culminated, in which Mr Omtzigt's increases and questions culminated. When you see how many times it has been discussed in the Council of Ministers, you do not tell me that it has not been discussed in the coalition talks, more often than you are now suggesting. You're not kidding me. I don't believe that. So I ask you: how many times has that been discussed there? Not exactly, but how many times? But I'm mostly asking you this. It is also Mrs van der Plas' question. You're not answering that. That question is: were you on the side of Secretary of State Snel, who was strongly criticised by Mr Omtzigt, or were you on Mr Omtzigt's side as a fellow MEP, saying: 'It may be so, but there must be a fierce debate. I support Mr Omtzigt and Mr Snel: a pity, but that's part of it"? Which side were you on when it was discussed in the coalition meeting, where you were present as group chairman? You can laugh about it, but Mr Omtzigt is home now because of all the misery. I hope you take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u350	Sure. I also wished him a great deal of improvement and strength on behalf of my group the other day. I am not suggesting that we have talked very often and very extensively about this supplement or individual Members of Parliament in this coalition over the last few years. We just didn't. As coalition group chairmen, this is separate from a coalition consultation where all of us in his party spoke regularly about: how is cooperation going, what themes are there to play, there is tension between coalition members and can we as coalition group chairmen help to remove these tensions so that MPs can do their job properly? I've never been in a position to decide if I supported Menno Snel or Pieter Ommzigt. I have always said: 'The D66 Group wants the premium affair to be resolved. How you do it, I don't care; fix it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u351	I did not use the word 'coalition group chairmen' at all. Of course, I'm talking about the coalition meeting you were in. That was not just between the three or four group chairmen. That was with the members of the coalition and some of the cabinet members present. They've been there. You went there every week, too. You do not tell me that it has rarely been discussed there. But even if it is, I'm asking you this. When it was discussed, when the criticism of Mr Snel was also discussed, did you, Rob Jetten, then group chairman of D66, when Mr Snel's side, defend Mr Snel and perhaps you chose Mr Omtzig, or did you side with Mr Omtzig? Mr President, we are all not under oath here, but I hope we can get an honest answer. If you did not support Mr Omtzigt and defend Mr Snel, just say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u352	I never had to make that choice, because that question never came before. I started off with the discussions that we have with the coalition group chairmen, because when members of the cabinet went to the coalition meeting on Monday about individual MPs, we as four coalition group chairmen said 'you are not about that; we will take care of that ourselves on the side of the Chamber'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u353	Then I conclude that Mr Jetten says that in the coalition meeting it was never about Mr Omtzig as a person and that if it was about it, he never mentioned it. That is important, because there will be another parliamentary survey. Then people can also be heard under oath. So Mr Jetten says: 'I never said that. I never talked about it. When it was discussed, I said: no, I am not going to talk about Mr Omtzigt; that is what we as political groups do." Is that a good summary? I think that's very important, because you lecture everyone here. You are, as you say, critical of your rulers. So it's also relevant what you've done yourself. Again, I don't know what the truth is, but I do want to find out the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u354	Again, as coalition group chairmen, we have always guarded what you discuss in such a coalition meeting with rulers and what you discuss as political groups among yourselves. In recent years, many subjects have been discussed, including the names of MPs and MPs, but we have never reviewed MPs there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u355	Mrs Pouw-Verweij, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u356	Mr Jetten just told me to look at the cabinet as a whole. I have given some thought to this and I agree with him, but in his speech he refers positively to Mrs Kaag's words. That's fine; he's free. I would like to put two quotes to him from D66 ministers. "Minister Ollongren agrees with the contributions of previous speakers, in particular the observation that it would be helpful if some members of the House of Representatives were to show more restraint." And from Mrs Kaag: "This debate must take place within certain frameworks. The speaker suggested that the cabinet should discuss, in consultation with the presidents of the coalition groups, which frameworks are workable and should also be made known to everyone." I would like to have a specific reflection from you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u357	I personally feel most at home with Mrs Kaag's other quote, namely that the fierce debate should simply be able to take place. Everything else is actually irrelevant to discuss in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u358	Finally. That's nice, but that's a little cherrypicking. Then I'd like to be part of a new coalition formation, how D66 can make it clear that they don't say a during the campaign, but then b do when they're in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u359	We have expressed the input and commitment of D66 in the discussions with the explorers and the informant. Mrs Kaag's letter has also been published. We are making a number of proposals, such as a coalition agreement more broadly, so that there is more room for debate in the Chamber. We do not want any more on Monday that coalition talks with group chairmen and rulers, precisely because of the interrupting debate I just had with Mr Wilders. I hope to see such proposals again in the near future. Of course, it will be up to the forming parties to agree on this, but we can already do a great deal ourselves to contribute to improving the political governance culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u360	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Then I go to the Lord Van Haga of Forum for Democracy, for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u361	Mr. Chairman. What the hell are we doing? An urgent debate on a number of well-known comments in the Council of Ministers. Basically interesting state law, but the country is on fire and our debate club here is working overtime. As Monty Python once cynically put it: this crisis calls for an immediate discussion. The House of Representatives is happier than ever: oral questions, urgent debates, thirty-member debates, it does not stop. At the same time, the Chamber is more superficial and weaker than ever. Members of parliament no longer vote without a burden, the opposition is ignored for four years and members of parliament of the coalition have turned into slippers who put their hands up in the votes. Power and counterpower no longer exist in this parliament. We've fallen from a dualist dream into a monistic nightmare. There's only one real culprit, and that's the House of Representatives itself. Of course I can also blame Mark Rutte. Where did the man I believe at a party congress in 2007 say the VVD stands for freedom and responsibility? Voters were sought by positions, but now positions were sought by as many voters as possible. Now we are dealing with a prime minister with amnesia, with strategic leaks, with structural discrimination, the Ruttedoctrine, which is in direct violation of Article 68 of the Constitution, and a prime minister who, for reasons of convenience before the elections, excludes all voters of the PVV and the Forum for Democracy from tactical considerations. Come on, Mark! This is really beneath your dignity. Wopke Hoekstra is also blamed. How is it possible that the CDA is making such a big deal about Pieter Ommzigt? The MP, who is by far the best MP among us, is being offended by his own party because he does his job too well. Praeses Collegium at Minerva, partner at McKinsey and then join this political mess. Come on, Wopke, noblesse oblige! And also Sigrid Kaag has dropped. Three years ago, I told you I thought you'd be the first female Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Smart, experienced, skilled and with great experience abroad, and yet fall into the trap of political games. Says like "those people who vote for Forum, what kind of people are they?" And interior chambers state that criticism is okay, but within the framework. But you were the only one who stood up for critical MPs. Bravo for that. So come on, Sigrid, step in the footsteps of the great innovators such as Hans van Mierlo, Frits Bolkestein, Pim Fortuyn and Thierry Baudet, and make sure the system changes. Get a corrective referendum so that the power gets back with the people and is ripped away from the back chambers of this out of control cabinet. And neither does Gert-Jan Segers. A Christian party that puts a dagger in the back of the Prime Minister on Good Friday, while that same party has been co-responsible for this rotten governance culture for four years. So come on, Gert-Jan, look to your right and take an example to the gentlemen of the SGP, who would never descend to these kinds of games. Mr. Chairman. The journalists are also to blame. Except for a few, I mention, for example, Ton F. van Dijk, which has turned most journalists into frustrations that politically operate through their newspapers or broadcasting. But state propaganda isn't journalism, and it's important that the truth wins over the lies. So come on, if you want to be political, be so brave to join a party. Get on a list and join in, because a little garbage spraying on the sidelines really doesn't add anything. Mr. Chairman. Officials also play a role in this discussion. The protection of civil servants is a consequence of the ukaze-Kok, and that has to stop. Contact with MPs should be possible and officials should also be able to be held accountable. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Mr. Chairman. There are indeed things in the minutes that do not deserve the beauty prize under state law, things that we know are also found in every organisation. But the country must be governed. There are 20,000 crushed families to be compensated, billions wasted on bad climate subsidies and the housing shortage is enormous. Immigrants flood our country and the EU demolishes us into a meaningless province. And the approach to the corona crisis is completely failing. It is impossible at that time that 80% of the discussions in the Council of Ministers are about the media and difficult MPs. So our message would be: stop it. Stop this political bullshit and get to work, for God's sake! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u362	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u363	Everyone has to get to work, everyone has to get to work, and the country needs to be run because we are in a crisis. At the same time, Mr Van Haga has tabled a motion of censure against the entire cabinet in the first place. If that motion is passed, the entire cabinet is immediately packed with the suitcases outside. How can the country be governed if this motion of censure is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u364	That's kind of funny. Mr Segers does it all the time: claiming the moral plateau. He did that once before when he questioned me about Theo Hiddema. That's a bit of a false interruption. And the other day about the corona vaccination, he did it. Then he didn't quite understand. And now it's happening again. We all agree that the cabinet has made big mistakes. It is therefore logical that it should receive a motion of censure. When a new motion of censure is tabled, of course I support it, because I have supported it many times. I even tabled a motion of censure. So when that motion comes, it's really weird if I don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u365	Mr Van Haga is very irritated. He's been hit a lot, but it's a very quiet, factual question. It's not an accusation, it's just a purely factual question. How can the country be governed? He says that the crisis must be dealt with, that those 20,000, 30,000 parents must be compensated. We really need to get to work. How can the cabinet get to work when it's fired tonight? What exactly is your scenario? That's a very quiet, factual question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u366	The irritation is, I think, not so much with me, but with you. That's why you come forward and that's your right. The funny thing is, we can't send you home. That's the problem. You've been responsible for this governance culture. You've tolerated it. You've taken part in the cabinet. That's how this happened. But not just this, also the whole corona crisis. There are so many things: climate subsidies, the whole EU issue, immigration. You're all responsible for that. Maybe I'm a little out of line, but it's a bit of a GroenLinks story that is masked with a religious sauce. Of course, this country needs to be governed. That's exactly the call I made. I don't understand what else you want from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u367	I believe that Members of Parliament who are still in office today are appreciated. I'm persistent. I'm going to repeat my question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u368	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u369	So you can bring anyone in and rub anything at me. You can do all that. The real question, the quiet question to you is: how can this cabinet get to work? You say it has to work, it has to compensate parents, the crisis must be combated. How can a cabinet that gets fired tonight be standing outside with the bag and nothing more? How can we get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u370	Mr Segers, they've already been fired once. They're already outgoing and they're still in office. I hope they form a new cabinet as soon as possible, most likely without you, but with another party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u371	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear President and best citizens of the Netherlands. There are major problems for society, which, of course, must be picked up as soon as possible by a new cabinet. That is no reason to maintain the current culture in cabinet and parliament. No, it's just the reason to clean up now. On a field full of thistles you will not sow, because you know that little of the harvest will come. Running around every day isn't an option. You're gonna have to take drastic measures. Mr President, we have received the minutes on Monday evening, which are not complete. I counted for a moment: 119 times the word Tax Administration, 93 times the House of Representatives, 58 times the cabinet, 40 times the advisory committee. And then 33 times the word older, 25 times the word people and 0 times the word victims. The Council of Ministers is mainly talking about curbing the representatives of the people and how everything will appear in the press. Victims, parents, people, families were also here on the second plan, muffled away. And one of the people who pulled this scandal out of the cesspool has been home sick for months, sucked out. Which Lower House members of the still active coalition are going to dare today to vote with their hearts, without burden, as the Constitution states, on behalf of the people for whom we are all here as representatives of the people? Not looking at party interests, but at the interest of the Dutch citizen. If democracy is not secured and restored now, it will soon be eating angry cherries with this cabinet. The Council of Ministers decided very consciously not to give a factual account, although it was asked several times by the Chamber. This goes against Article 68 of the Constitution. It's like, as an employer, you order an employee to perform a job and that employee says, "I don't do that, look at it." In real life, you can just get the hell out of here as an employee. Mind you, there's no waiting money. It seems as if the cabinet has become the boss instead of the House of Representatives. However, that is not how our democracy works. I may not be here that long, but I didn't just crawl out of an egg. The cabinet works for the Chamber, not the other way around. Democracy must be guarded and secured, precisely in order to avoid scandals such as the surcharge affair. And we have to go back to running this country. This can only be done by means of a concrete democratic system, where critical MPs are not silenced, sidetracked and not put on the bench. Where the Cabinet does not decide which frameworks apply to a debate, but where the Chamber...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Only then can we deal with the content that our country, and indeed myself, is so anxious. Let's take a look at coalition discipline for the record. The Constitution has no party or party interest. The Constitution does have people's representatives. They are in the service of the people, not the cabinet, of whatever party you are. What ministers of MPs think does not belong in steam blowing sessions in the Council of Ministers. They only discuss this at the Friday afternoon drink with their partner or during the Sunday morning coffee with a Zeeuwse bolus. Meanwhile, we read in Trouw this morning that there is a major crisis at the Tax Office. Thousands of families are still in great uncertainty and have not received a recovery of honour. I have one question for the cabinet. How do you feel about it? Despite all the harsh words of a number of parties, these words are worthless if we do not do justice to the victims of the premium affair today and to Pieter Ommzigt. BBB has therefore requested a roll-call vote. Today we will see whether the Members of this Chamber can and will vote without burden. To be honest, you only have to do one thing, and that's being honest. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u373	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Thank you for saying yesterday that there might be a roll-call vote. Here's the confirmation. That is very good, because then the groups will be able to prepare themselves for that in this time of Corona. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. It's her maiden speech, so that's a special moment. We always have the rule that we can't be interrupted. I do not know if that would have been a problem for Mrs Simons, but it is a kind of informal arrangement that we have made with each other. I suggest that at the end of the first term we have a moment to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's my maiden speech, so allow me to add a personal note. In front of you is a proud woman, a woman who has conquered a great deal in life. Born in the colony, where my mother's grandmother was still employed as a slave. And then the big crossing, like dreumes, to a motherland, where, despite my Dutch passport given at birth, I never seem to belong entirely to it. In my life I have been an official foreigner, fellow Dutchman, new Dutchman and immigrant. Or, also very popular: exotic. A general exclusion, which will even carry my beautiful grandchild on her shoulders. After all, her grandmother was not born in the Netherlands. As no other I see, I know, I feel and have experienced how hard it can be to overcome such exclusion. I managed to get up and fall. But what if I needed help from the government? What if I had to claim child care allowance at the age of 21 as a single mother? Then my children and I, like the many ruined families, were now looking at the debris of our lives. Then we were desperately wondering: how to proceed? In the last few days, I've spoken to some of those parents. With their heartbreaking stories they confirmed the need I felt five years ago to enter politics. This country is on the edge of a ravine, where citizens are systematically pushed as deep as possible. I am disgusted by the lack of humanity, the lack of reasonableness and the lack of responsibility in this cabinet. The minutes of the Council of Ministers have shown that the events surrounding the supplement scandal were not accidents. On the contrary, parents were supposed to be guilty until proven guilty. It was intended that they would be labeled as fraud against their own knowledge and that this supposed fraud would be dealt with in an ungodly manner. Ethnicity and nationality were intended to play a role in this. It was policy with the intention to throw everything and everyone for this purpose under the bus, to destroy families. It's not just the parents of the supplemental scandal about who it's about today. They are the victims of the earthquakes in Groningen, it is everyone who has been victims of institutional racism in the police, the IND, the UWV.................................................................................................................................................................. It is the doubling of the number of homeless since Mark Rutte's arrival. It is the young people who saw the destruction of youth care, the elderly who have been waiting ten years for a fair pension, all those people who die in the cost of care. It is the people who are further cornered by the failing Participation Act. It is the workers who are still fighting for fair wages since the 2008 crisis. They are the next of kin of those who literally became sick of this policy and the next of kin of those who took their own life because they couldn't see the light at the end of the tunnel. The solution is not a new leadership that smells like mothballs. The choice of a different administrative culture is not an apolitical message. The choice of democratic governance is precisely that we must ask ourselves to condemn and break this ideology. The time of questions, how can that be?; Why?; As far as my party is concerned, you will explain it again once and for all, at least here in the Chamber. It seems to me that questions are before the courts and at least before the parliamentary committee of inquiry. This room owes the affected parents, their children and relatives three things: first. Full rehabilitation. That goes beyond compensation. Second. Room, please, take back the power. Third. restore the rule of law. That is the task we are now facing. Mr President, since it is my maiden speech, I hope you will allow me to briefly share with the Chamber a call I have just received from one of the duped parents. The duped parents ask us the following questions: Put your hands together now. Support the motion of censure and the declaration. We need you. Please, make this stop, it's unstoppable. We are broken and want peace. It's not about the dolls in box K, the policy makers, that they can stay. For they will not change. It's the nature of the creature. It's about us, the parents, and more importantly, about our children, our future. Please prevent them from going through more misery than they already know. They're 4-0 behind. And by whom? Hearing this call is what we stand for now. That order means this cabinet has to go home today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u375	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Congratulations for your maiden speech. It is a very special moment and a very beautiful, personal story. Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u376	Thank you, Madam President. My heartfelt congratulations to Mrs Simons for her maiden speech. It wasn't her first speech, but it was her maiden speech. Meanwhile, Mrs Ploumen is obstructing my view of the person who just gave her maiden speech, stronger, the person who made the maiden speech, probably hasn't heard anything I just said. Mrs Simons, congratulations! Madam President. Read the released minutes of the Council of Ministers as a disaster in slow motion. A disaster for the thousands of families affected, which have sometimes been ground up for years by the government, with great consequences for their health, their families and their lives. It underlines the correctness of the resignation of the cabinet in January. We have sometimes been surprised by the minutes I have read. But there was one thing that really hit me. In the Council of Ministers of 10 May 2019, Secretary of State Snel mentions the action of the Tax Administration harshly. On June 7th, he reported that the Tax Administration had been duped on the basis of suspicions for more than six years. Why wasn't the red-stop button pressed after that? Then why did the recovery continue? I can't really understand that. Maybe the Prime Minister can reflect on that again? Madam President. If this drama is good for anything, it's to learn from mistakes made. This drama and these minutes reveal something of a political culture with sometimes wrong reflexes and wrong priorities. There's gotta be another way. I myself draw six lessons and make six proposals for improving ourselves. One. In The Hague it is too much about managing administrative problems and not enough about people who are entitled to a protective and serviceable government. The highest officials have become exchangeable managers who hop from place to place, without practical knowledge. That is why I ask the Prime Minister whether it would not be good if the official summit was not only made up of members of the rotating caste of the General Administrative Service, but also officials from the services and ministries themselves, with practical knowledge. Two. There is too much politics with a small p and too little focus on the citizens for whom we are here. Therefore: investing in execution, in physical counters. It is agreed that the citizen is the measure of implementation and that there are no wrong points of contact. We must not prevent precedent, but do justice to people. And are we sure that there is not a similar drama happening at another implementation organisation? Are we gonna press the redstop button? Three. There has been too much emphasis on imaging and too little on service. There are too many spokesmen and too few performers. Cut the number of communication staff, which has grown from 633 fte to over 800 fte during this period, with a lot of external hire as well. Use that money to strengthen the execution. Four. There was a cabinet with too much fear to share information and there was not enough room for a generous explanation of Article 68 of the Constitution. If you get away with this, the question was to Secretary of State Snel. It is therefore good that the cabinet has made a new choice and shares memos and policy options. There is also a suggestion from the Council of State, I say in the direction of Minister Ollogren of the Interior, to ease contact between officials and politicians. There was supposed to be a pilot. How's that going? Are these relations indeed normalized? Five. Too much monism, too little dualism. That is what I am saying about our own contribution to the coalition of recent years. Therefore, please submit options to the Chamber. Share dilemmas. Share scenarios. Have an open debate on that. Learn from the opposition and then make your political choice. That saves many pages of government agreement and coalition consultation. Six. There is too much confidence in one's own power and too little room for counterpower. Judges did help citizens obtain their rights, where implementation and politics failed. The rule of law must therefore be strengthened. I am thinking of legal protection, legal aid, constitutional review. Also look critically at the marginal review in administrative law. It does not sufficiently weigh the substantive importance of citizens vis-à-vis a powerful government. Madam President, finally. The gospel is a source of wisdom, even if you do not believe in it. In that gospel Jesus shows each time that it is about the one and that he sometimes has to make a huge detour to help the one. In the supplemental affair, it's about that one thousands of times. In the implementation of the government it is millions of times about that one. If this drama and all these debates can be good for anything, then it is an intense encouragement for us, as a government, as a parliament, as a legislator, as executive power, as a local government, as an individual politician, to do everything we can to serve that one. 'Cause for them, we're here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u377	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u378	I am pleased to hear Mr Segers speak about things like wrong reflexes, which I think is a slightly broader responsibility than the cabinet has shown, because you also reflect on the question: how come we have not properly informed the Chamber? That's what my question is about. With the Dijkhoff motion, which everyone has signed and supported, the Chamber concluded that there were political reasons behind the failure to inform the Chamber. We saw that the VVD has so far been the only party that says: we're backing back a bit. I wonder what the Christian Union Group stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u379	You have a rather critical review of Mr Hermans' reaction to that. That's not what I heard. Because she said something, and I get that; I can put that in context. She said that at that point in time the Council of State also wrote about the failure to release personal policy views of officials was a legitimate interpretation of Article 68 of the Constitution, i.e. a legitimate interpretation. I don't think that's right. And the cabinet has now said, on second thought, that we do not think it is right; we must be much more generous. This is widely endorsed by the Chamber, also by the VVD Group. And I think that is the only correct interpretation: Article 68 is limited by the interest of the State. And you really can't insist that releasing memos from civil servants, squeezing away their names, would harm the state's interest. So I welcome the generous interpretation of Rule 68, and I do not need to speak on behalf of the VVD Group, Mrs Hermans, but I really think that we as a whole are happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u380	First, finish this interruption, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I'll come to you, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u381	Fine, Mr. Chairman, thank you. So the Christian Union is actually saying: we support the judgment of the Chamber at that time. We support the whole report of the Van Dam Committee, including the observation that it was based on political motives. So they support that, even though the Prime Minister said 'I do not agree'. And where all the other groups have said 'we have read the Minutes, and we are actually only reading a confirmation from Van Dam', the VVD Group said: we have read the Minutes, and we cannot conclude that there were political motives. I am glad that the Christian Union remains on this side. And if Mrs Hermans thinks 'I have something to say', I say: the confusion that she has caused, she really owes it to herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u382	I think it amounts to the interpretation of the word 'political', 'political motives'. You can interpret that flat and ugly, namely: we're gonna keep the Chamber under wraps. Or you can read it as I read the recital in the Minutes again, I do not agree with it, but that is how I read it: Secretary of State Snel wanted to have the debate with the Chamber at another level, and that is as follows. "They are structural problems. I don't want to end up in this case, but I want to talk structuralally about what's wrong with the Tax Office. At that level I want to have the debate and at that level I am going to answer." Again, I don't think it's right. I think you should just share that information. Then you can indicate in your own reaction how you want to solve it, but just share that information with the Chamber. So again, I'm happy with the cabinet's self-correction. I do not agree with the consideration that was made at the time, but it was not an ugly political consideration. It was a political consideration in terms of: I want to have a debate with the Chamber at another level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u383	Now it's getting complicated. Because the fact that there have been political considerations is ugly anyway. You couldn't have informed the Chamber because of mistakes you couldn't have done so much about yourself. That's a bit how the cabinet tries to present it, and I see other groups doing the same: "Well, we did our best, it was a mess, the information is not in order there. We did our best; we didn't succeed, but we take the ministerial responsibility. Look at us being the same size." But the Van Dam committee said: they are political reasons. And that's always ugly, when these people's interests are at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u384	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u385	No, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to take this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u386	Yes, but try to keep it brief and concise, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u387	I'll do my best, and if it doesn't work, I'll say I'm sorry. But we were able to read the minutes. Mr Segers was just talking about it himself. There was a reminder; someone raised his finger and said: "This is not in accordance with the Constitution, but we are going to do it anyway. Can you get away with it?" It was then decided not to tell the Chamber: listen, that Omtzigt motion has been adopted, but we are not implementing it. No, it's been decided to throw the Chamber on the wrong foot. How ugly do you want it? How many more political motives do you want? So I would like to call on the Christian Union not to go along with trying to diffuse this whole discussion. This was just ugly, and this is part of the Van Dam Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u388	Your point is clear, and finally Mr Segers will speak, and then Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u389	The cabinet had a legitimate interpretation of Rule 68 at the time. I think that is a wrong interpretation, I say for clarity, but it has been a legitimate interpretation. Read the words of the Council of State, which says: this is how you could take it. If you hadn't interpreted it that way, but had interpreted it generously, as the cabinet is doing now and as I thought it should have been at the time, then memos had previously come to the Chamber and, for example, the much discussed memo-Palmen had previously been shared. It would have been clear before that there were warnings who said, "This is not good; this is unlawful." The scale of the problem would have become clear much earlier, which would have enabled us to intervene much earlier. So that generous interpretation had helped us in this crisis. That makes it so harsh for the thousands of families who have now come into the misery. In substance, therefore, we agree, namely that wrong choices have been made. Your opinion is that this has been an ugly policy, but I'm a little less judgmental about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u390	Finally, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u391	I still have a personal fact on my part. This is the second time Mrs Ouwehand has tried to put words in my mouth with another speaker through an interruption. I'll repeat it one more time. The VVD Group fully endorses the conclusions of the Van Dam Committee. The only thing I have added today is the consideration that has been made of the facts and interpretation of Article 68. I do not believe that there were any wrong political intentions under that. I believe that these included political intentions, legitimate reasons, which at that time were understandable and so explanatory. I agree with what Mr Segers said, namely that we should change the balance at any time and that we should have made it different at the time. We didn't do that back then. That was non-legitimate. I really want to say that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u392	Thank you. That's noted. I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt. I thank Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u393	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Simons on her wonderful maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. This debate is about two forms of injustice: the surcharge scandal itself and the violations of the democratic rule of law that took place to cover up this affair. This is, of course, first and foremost about the victims of the surcharge scandal. This should never have happened. The fact that you're still running into walls is really terrible. That is why I would like to know from the cabinet what is now being done to prevent parents from facing bailiffs and all related stress and pain on 1 May when the period of deferment to payment expires. Mr. Chairman. Are the minutes showing us something we really didn't know? Not really. At the most, we know things better now. Not only our Prime Minister, but also the Council of Ministers appears to be trained in training and incomplete information. We read how, among other things, ministers Hoekstra and Grapperhaus decided that they were going to help the eventually resigned Secretary of State Snel. They wanted to avoid a precedent, when the precedent should have been: never this again. Because there are so many other implementing bodies where abuses can come to light and are likely to come to light. The House of Representatives is often accused of incident policy. That criticism is partly justified. As the Van Dam Committee points out, it is time for the Chamber to reflect on this. Incident policy is also encouraged by the lack of information, because the cabinet must enable the Chamber to fulfil its role properly. Information is the oxygen of our democracy. Professor of State and Administrative Law Wim Voermans spoke clear language at Op1: the cabinet acted counter-constitutionally, and everyone sat there and turned to it. The same Voermans investigated how often the Chamber has not been informed, incomplete or incorrect in the past twenty years. That was 69 times. Under Rutte this was an increase of 65%. Which brings us to the Ruttedoctrine. That's a pattern. A sound democratic rule of law cannot be achieved without the right to information or the obligation to provide information pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution. Does our cabinet still have an eye for this? Do the Members of Parliament who are always good here with the rulers when they ask them to do so, by how this affects the essence of our office? Mr. Chairman. Our prime minister is often praised for his Teflon talent. I regret this, because politics is not first and foremost a game. Just because every game besides a winner, especially many losers. Take a look. The affected parents lost health, love and happiness. The Chamber lost its right to information and thus the controlling power. Politics loses the trust of citizens, and citizens lose the confidence of politics. Mr. Chairman. Not everything is about the dolls, but our rulers are dolls with influence. Your behavior matters. Thus, your morality reflects on all of us, as leadership is also knowing when it is better for people's confidence in what we do here to leave. Mr President, I will conclude. In addition to self-reflection, our parliamentary democracy also needs breakthroughs, both in the govern ments and in the Chamber. To break that vicious circle, Volt proposes the following. The creation of a Constitutional Court, so that the Constitution, which is apparently prone to erosion, becomes an active part of our democratic rule of law. That access to justice for people who are in conflict with the government is being restored today. Today we want a commitment from the cabinet that the social lawyer will be repaired after ten years of austerity. The motion for a resolution on the Venice Commission is being implemented. I therefore ask for a letter on the concrete steps taken and how the Chamber is involved. Finally, the Chamber itself can also take the initiative to interpret Article 68 of the Constitution, so that the Chamber of the European Parliament can decide what that obligation of information actually means. Then we can get back to work for the people we end up here for. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u394	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I shall then suspend the sitting for a short moment for the congratulations to Mrs Simons for her maiden speech. I would very much like to ask Mr Azarkan to come and see me for a moment to vote on his motion. Then we'll have a look at what we're doing with the votes on that one motion. But I shall therefore suspend the sitting for a single moment for the congratulations to Mrs Simons. You can stand here, Mrs Simons, and everyone can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u395	I give the floor to Mr Azarkan. Members' silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u396	Lilianne Ploumen made a joke and I wanted to laugh! Mr. Chairman. Here's what I wanted to tell you. I have, of course, tabled a motion in the first term. I would have indicated that I wanted to vote on this after the first deadline on the part of the Chamber. Now the rules are just a little less flexible, so I propose that we vote at the end of the debate and do so jointly and severally. I believe that Mr Van der Plas had already requested a roll-call vote on a motion which she is about to table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u397	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. The cabinet has indicated that it needs 45 minutes to prepare itself. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u398	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for the first term. I've agreed with the Prime Minister to indicate how he's going to distribute the questions and what the treatment is. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u399	Mr. Chairman. There are three points I should like to make. Moreover, we have noted that there were not so many questions asked to the cabinet on balance, but we have tried to distribute them as well as possible. I will go into three themes myself, plus a leftover group. The first is: has there been any discussion in the cabinet about the situation or only about the administrative settlement? The second pile is about talking about MPs in the Council of Ministers. The third set is about the information about the fact story that was requested in November 2019. Then I have a few more questions that I will answer, but which I will not allow to be classified. Then my suggestion would be that then Kajsa Ollongren, Minister of the Interior, would talk about Article 68 of the Constitution. That is a special feature of what I have already said, namely the provision of information, but it goes further into the details. Then my suggestion would be that afterwards Wopke Hoekstra, Minister of Finance, will address a number of questions that have been asked about implementation within the Tax Administration in, let's say, 2019 and early 2020. Then comes the Secretary of State for Finance, Alexandra van Huffelen, about the situation and the questions that have been asked about this morning's Trouw article. Then the thought would be that we all... Excuse me. So first Wopke Hoekstra, then Wouter Koolmees... Sorry, I'm saying it wrong. After Kajsa Ollongren comes Wopke Hoekstra. Then Wouter Koolmees comes across precedent and broader about a few questions that have been asked about the implementation. Then Alexandra van Huffelen comes to the current state of execution. Sigrid Kaag then comes to a single question about what she herself said in the Council of Ministers. We will, of course, all reflect on what we have said in our contribution, in response to the questions that have been asked. I think we've got it all pretty well covered. But we can always determine that at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u400	There is a question from Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u401	Well, maybe it's more of a comment. The Minister, of course, deals with his own subjects. These are all substantive issues. There is nothing wrong with that either, because this is a substantive debate, but it is also a political debate. Allow me to begin with a political question. 'Cause I was standing right here in this same spot on "What was it?" April 1st. The motion of censure just didn't make it. The entire opposition voted in favour. The motion of censure made it. I was standing here and I asked the Prime Minister: what are you going to do with the fact that one motion has almost been adopted and the other has been adopted? Then the Prime Minister said, "Well, I'm gonna do my stinking best, my stinking best, to make sure I'm gonna restore confidence." My first question to the Prime Minister on that point would be: how do you feel, almost a month later, that until now it is going to restore confidence, with those minutes in hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u402	That was also a question from Mrs Van der Plas, I remember, so perhaps the Prime Minister could see if he would take it with him in his introduction or in one of the cubes. It's a question that's been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u403	That's actually block two and three. I'd like to do that there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u404	I have a political question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u405	Yeah, but I'm gonna answer that on block two and three. I'd really like to hold on to that. Yeah, I can answer it now, but it's gonna be a mess. Then all the answers I've prepared so well are mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u406	No, that's another Prime Minister's trick. He's turning around again. My question is, what did you learn? You were standing right here. Don't beat around the bush with "block two." I have a question and I just want an answer to that. I was standing here with you, and you came forward and you said, "I learned something from those motions that I'm going to do my stinking best to restore confidence." There's no way we can catch that in any of the blocks. That's just a political question. How do you feel about it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u407	Well, if you put it that way, I can answer it now, but you linked it, I thought, to the minutes of 2019, which I do not find inappropriate with regard to the information position of the Chamber. I'll explain that in block two, as I just outlined; that's block three, sorry. But I can answer that question first. It was a very intense debate on 1 April. I named it: I didn't lie that I didn't know that I was talking about Pieter Ommzigt. When I saw the report, I was also shocked that it had been discussed; by the way, not in the sense of 'function elsewhere', but echoing what I had previously discussed with Hoekstra, namely that there was no objection to Pieter Omtzigt as Minister in relation to the VVD. But nevertheless I was mistaken that it had been about it. That was a very intense debate that day. I've been thinking about that for a long time. I have shared with the media and also with the informant that it forces me to think not only about our administrative culture in general but also about my role in it. I intend to discuss this with the Netherlands in the coming weeks and also in debates here in connection with the Herman Tjeenk Willink report. So I'll get back to you on that. I do not think this is the time, because I am standing here as Prime Minister and not as group chairman of the VVD. I think I should do it from that position there, as a Member of Parliament and not as Prime Minister. But I can assure you, Mr Wilders, that I have thought a great deal about this. I've given that a lot of thought, including my own role in there. Without making myself 100% responsible for everything that is not going well in the Netherlands, I, of course, have a great responsibility as Prime Minister. I will share those reflections with the Netherlands and certainly with the Chamber. But I do so as a Member of Parliament, and I do not do so in this debate, because I do not think that is appropriate as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u408	I really don't give a damn what block something is in or what hat the Prime Minister has on. He said he'd do his stinking best to regain trust. I asked him to reflect on that and he didn't come up with an answer again, except that he will do so in the informant's report. I'll give you the answer as far as I can tell. You've done your stinking best, but you've only made it worse. You have only further betrayed confidence, and you will undoubtedly deal with it in all your blocks. You've robbed yourself and your team of MPs. You have withheld information from the Chamber. You lied to the Chamber, no matter what you admitted. You didn't make it better. You made it worse. What I would like, instead of you passing through all those cubes again, is that you should do it again, especially that you are beginning to realize that you are not part of a problem, but that you yourself are the problem, that we in the Netherlands cannot go to a new administrative culture if you are part of it. When will you see that as long as you, Mark Rutte, with whatever hat on and whatever block you are dealing with, there will be no change in the Netherlands, that you are hijacking the Netherlands, that you are taking the Netherlands hostage, and that if you want the Netherlands to become an open country with an open culture and administration, and that we are telling the truth again, Article 68 Constitution, which you are all about to talk about, you cannot, that you are part of the problem? I'd rather have a look at that than go through all those blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u409	I was so naive to assume that Mr Wilders asked me an open question about how I reflected on the debate on 1 April. I gave an honest answer to that, but it turns out that Mr Wilders only wanted to hear one answer, namely that which he has just given. It is also known that he does not feel confident that things will work out between me and Mr Wilders or between me and the House of Representatives. I have to accept that, I have to live with that. Nevertheless, this debate on 1 April was a very intense debate. There have been very heavy words that require me to think also about my own role in how we organise our administration in this beautiful country and how we think about the relationship between the House of Representatives and the Cabinet and the Council of Ministers, and also about the many consultations that are taking place at the moment, even under my leadership. That has only got worse in recent years between Chambers and Cabinets, all those discussions between political groups and so on. I can't say that it's possible to do it completely without, but it could be much less and maybe it can almost completely go away. Those are all things I've been thinking about. More importantly, I have not only thought about what you should change in the future, but also about what lessons I myself draw about my behavior, my way of working, not only to the future, but also over the past ten years. And that is fundamental and that is also highly personal. I think it is important to share that with groups here. I think that's appropriate, too. Maybe others do that from their perspective, how they look at things, but at least I want to do that. I'm just not gonna do it in this debate. And why don't I? Because I stand here as prime minister of the cabinet and not as foreman of my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u410	Finally. It's totally unbelievable. For ten years, Mr. Rutte, you have left nothing to do with everything we are talking about. Getting the truth, standing up for the people with problems in the Netherlands, Article 68 of the Constitution and respect for the parliamentary system, we have never heard of it. And on 1 April you are in trouble yourself, on 1 April your political career is hanging by a thread, and in one go you say: it is personal, I have very wild ideas about it. All insincerity, because you have not come up with this in those ten years, but only after you are on the brink of the political abyss do you realize that this is what you need to do to save your political abyss. And that's what we see in all those minutes of the Council of Ministers. You are collectively not only you as Prime Minister, but the whole collective is trying to save your own ass. You don't care about the people in the Netherlands. The freedom of expression and Article 68 of the Constitution, the obligation to provide information, do not interest you. Members of parliament have to get in line, otherwise you don't care. You're only concerned with yourself. I'll hear it all in those very interesting cubes, but I'd like to tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, that it's not between me and you. It is about the confidence of the Dutch people in you and in the parliamentary system. As long as you're here, as long as Mark Rutte is Prime Minister... I tell the whole Chamber that nothing changes as long as you're there, as long as we let you get away with fooling around, lying, cheating, not keeping promises, intimidating MPs and not sending information to the Chamber. As long as we take all that and you stay put, nothing changes. If you do not have the reflection to quit, I hope my colleagues will at least have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u411	I will first give a state answer and then give a more substantive answer. First, state law. Mr Wilders, in part through the reverse rule of confidence, determines who will be the next Prime Minister. I hope that's okay with me. That should then be the outcome of the formation and that is absolutely not a certainty. So it may also be that over the next few years I will be working here as leader of the opposition. It's possible. That is what I will do with passion and surrender. Mr Wilders is not about who is the leader of the VVD Group and who is the leader of the VVD Group. So he does go through the reverse rule of confidence about the cabinet and whether there is confidence in it, but not about who is the leader of the VVD group or the leader of the VVD. So if he had any ideas about that, he shouldn't have left that party. That's what I'd like to say to him. That's the point of state law. In substance, I am proud of what the Cabinets have done, in the beginning with Wilders in the supporting role, then with the Labour Party and now with this cabinet of four parties, to deal with a number of major crises in the Netherlands: the financial crisis, the refugee crisis, very recently the nitrogen crisis and now also the corona crisis. At the same time, we have had to tackle a number of very big problems, such as the terrible events of taking down flight MH17. At the same time, not only do we have the debate on 1 April, because this debate has been going on for a long time: the question of monism and dualism, the question of power and opposition and the question of whether the primacy can return to the Council of Ministers on Friday, and therefore mirrorfully to the House of Representatives on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. So the question is whether it is again possible to separate those worlds more than is currently the case. That great intermediate world has grown in consultation between coalitions and coalitions. I think it is a very fundamental debate towards the future to greatly reduce it, if not to a large extent end it. But that alone would be too easy for me. I did say this to RTL and NOS on that Saturday evening about my radical ideas for the future, but before I talk about them, I think that after the debate on 1 April, the Chamber is entitled to reflect on my own role in those last ten years. That is personal, and that is also fundamental to me. Whether or not I convince Mr Wilders, I will have to wait and see, but I am not going to do that here. I do not think that is appropriate, because I am not here as group chairman of the VVD, but as Prime Minister of a coalition cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u412	So it does not really reach the Prime Minister that he too can be the problem of the crisis of confidence in politics and that ten years of Rutte can also be ten years too many. I would like to remind him, however, that I have tried this once before, in addition to your personal interest and the party interest of your party, the VVD, there is something like the national interest. Again, I do not deny that you won the election. My point is that it might not be good for you and perhaps not for your party, but it is good for the country, if you would say: another should do so. We've all heard the comparison of the fire and the pyromaniac. I won't repeat it all. If we want to make a fresh start, if we want to start with renewed confidence in politics, if we want to make sure that the Chamber is taken seriously again and we can leave history behind, then you could say: "Maybe I do not entirely agree with it, perhaps I do not personally realize that it is my fault, but the country's interest is Mark Rutte for party interests and self-interest. I see, I feel and I notice that maybe that's painful and I don't like it, and I still had won that election.... that it's time to go now. Someone else has to pull the cart, because that is in the interests of the Netherlands and Dutch politics." You could have said that. I can't force it, but I'd like to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u413	I think that is a very fair question from Mr Wilders. Since 2002, when Gerrit Zalm asked me to become Secretary of State for Social Affairs in the first cabinet of Jan Peter Balkenende, I have always felt at home with the doctrine, including in my party, of people like Henk Kamp and Johan Remkes, that the national interest always goes above party interests. The party interest is always above the personal interest. You always have to deal with each other at times when you may or may not run again for the House of Representatives. That could be as a list leader, in my case, the last time, when you would be willing to come out of the elections, should that be the outcome of a coalition negotiation, to give a line to a new cabinet or to give leadership to the opposition. We're the biggest party. So we would be in opposition, then we would lead the opposition. That is also possible, so I think that is a very fair question. I come to a different conclusion than Geert Wilders, but that does not mean that I think it is my duty to do it as follows after the debate on 1 April and also because of a longer trend in the Netherlands, where there is a feeling that the discussion between the Chamber and the Cabinet has increased too much and that too much is being discussed, which means that the debate can take place less freely in the Chamber itself. There is much more to be said about all these considerations, including with society. I would like to share that with the Chamber, too, but I want to do so in debates on the formation and not in this role. I'll get back to you on that. That's what I'm telling you. Mr. Chairman. The first point I would like to make is that of the cabinet. When in June 2019 the full extent of the terrible child care allowance affair began to become visible after that, it only got bigger: in the course of 2019 and even in the course of 2020, the numbers have only increased enormously and Menno Snel reported to the Council of Ministers on 7 June, I say by heart, at least at the beginning of June and told us how intense it was.I have said it more often here in the Chamber. People realized at that time that it seemed to be more hundreds than thousands of parents and by now we know that it is tens of thousands of people that this has enormous effects for everyone who is involved in their personal lives. It later became much clearer what it means for children, what it means for marriages and what it means for people who had a business and who lost it. I myself have been allowed to have conversations with parents with Alexandra van Huffelen and Wopke Hoekstra over the past few weeks and months and I can only say that that is extremely impressive. That's what the Cabinet has been thinking about. It is true, and this has to do with how a cabinet works, that if we say to each other "this needs to be dealt with', as was the case when we made that observation in June 2019, it is, of course, primarily up to the trade ministers to get to work on it. It doesn't work if you do that together with 25 people every Friday. So that's what the professionals do. They then come forward with proposals to the Council of Ministers and do all the preliminary work. If the proposals are correct, we agree with them. Sometimes, on the basis of the Minutes, it seems as if very far-reaching proposals have been mentioned very briefly. That's simply because everyone says "yes, it makes sense." It is often so well prepared, official and political, that there is no longer a long debate in the Council of Ministers on Friday. Then we say, it's good that we're doing this. Is everything okay? On the contrary. It is not for nothing that we resigned in mid-January as a result of the work of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance. A lot of things have gone wrong, and that is also well known. But I would like to say here, also in defence of my colleagues, that we could not, as perhaps may be seen from the Minutes here and there, I should like to comment on what is written in the Minutes about Members of Parliament who, in general terms, would have looked at this cold and uninvolved. It has taken hold of us, it has taken hold of me personally, of what has happened here, because it affects people. No one in the cabinet and no one in the Lower House is in politics to do this to people, no one at all. It's the last thing you want. If things go so badly wrong, it's a sacred duty to solve it. Against that background, Mr President, I can say something about the discussion on MPs in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u414	This is the end of the first block, isn't it? Yes. Mrs Ouwehand, Mrs Ploumen and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u415	The Prime Minister has said that these minutes will be made public and between what is to be read in them there is nothing inauspicious or strange. I do not think that this is necessarily a sign of a deep realization that very important things have actually gone worse than not well, and then on purpose. That's my first question. The question has always been: has the cabinet decided to resign because it was intrinsically motivated for penance, or had it become inevitable and do it because it is supposed to? Why did the Prime Minister say "nothing inauspicious and nothing weird"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u416	The answer is the first, namely the intrinsic awareness. Given the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee and the conclusions in Unfamiliar injustice, which we have discussed for a long time, we have devoted three long meetings to it, and we have finally come to the conclusion that this was the only correct conclusion. What is ahead today, and that is what my statement was about, is due to the facts that were asked by the Chamber in November 2019. I mean, and I insist here, that nothing inauspicious has happened there. The Cabinet informed the Chamber that two considerations would play a role in the implementation of Pieter Omtzigt's motion: firstly, the political responsibility of the Cabinet for the action of individual officials and secondly, the long-standing procedure...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have also reported this to the Chamber in all kinds of letters and there have been debates about it. There has also been a separate debate on Article 68 of the Constitution. Mrs Ollongren will be able to comment on this later. But I don't think anything bad happened there. We have reported to the Chamber: we are carrying out the motion adopted by the Chamber, but with these two considerations, which play an important role. That's what my statement was about, that nothing was said inevitably. That wasn't about talking about MPs, because that's where more explanations and nuances fit. I'll give it to you in a minute. But that "inaudible" was about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u417	Or, well, it doesn't surprise me. The Prime Minister does not, therefore, show that he is also upset that the cabinet, for its own sake, has overfilled Article 68 of the Constitution. You'd think you'd say, "We were really wrong. We also need to reflect on why we did that." Because the Minutes show that the Council of Ministers did get the message: 'Hey, guys, how does this relate to Article 68 of the Constitution?' But then it was: the question is whether we can get away with it. There was no fear: "We are crossing a border here that we are not allowed to cross; is it appropriate to look up this border at all?" None of that was the case. The Prime Minister still doesn't think it's strange and unacceptable that the Council of Ministers didn't have that reaction, but the reaction: "How do we get away with it? How are we going to inform the Chamber so that it gets the impression that the motion has been carried out, when we know that we are not carrying out the motion and that we are at least looking for the limit of Rule 68?" We read that in the minutes. That's what the Prime Minister still calls "nothing strange and nothing inauspicious." Then the question is: where is the Prime Minister's state-of-the-art awareness and where is his reaction to terror?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u418	I'm gonna keep this real. It is also an important point for the debate. There is much more to talk about the Members of Parliament; we will get to that in a moment. But what happened in November, that we said that we are going to carry out that fact story and that motion as well as possible, two important considerations play a role. The first was: we're not going to name officials. There was also an investigation by the Audit Service, which would see who knew what had happened here, at both the high office and the political level. There was also Piet Hein Donner's report, which concluded that the problem is not caused by individuals with evil in the sense, but that it has structural causes. We've all reported that to the Chamber. The second had to do with the system. This concerns Article 68 in particular. The system was in place for a long time. We have now revised them in response to the parliamentary interrogation committee, but they were still valid at that time, namely that we did not provide documents drawn up for the purpose of internal reflection, but that we provided information on them in an objective form. That's what we've all reported to the Chamber. So we are not trying to deliberately withhold information from the Chamber in order to cover things up and because that would bring us politically. That is what I call the Chamber with an open vision of how we would carry out this motion within the constitutional framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u419	Mrs. Ouwehand, closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u420	Yeah, closing up, at this point. I note that the Prime Minister and his entire cabinet... because we have seen that letter from Secretary of State Knops: we will tell the Chamber how to read Article 68 of the Constitution. That was a step further than the current line since 2002. The cabinet decided to remove even more from the Chamber's position. Meanwhile, the cabinet comes back to that, but as Professor of State Law Wim Voermans also says: that's a cigar from his own box. You've just tried, you see if you can get away with it, and if you can't do it anymore, you say, we'll turn it back. However, there is no sense whatsoever that you should expect from the Prime Minister and the Government, on which we should be able to rely blindly, and that you should not even think about looking for those limits of the Constitution. If you are then flogged back, you should be ashamed, you should reflect and you should say, "How did this happen? I have sworn allegiance to the Constitution. This is very serious." None of that! None of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u421	Because, with all due respect, Mrs Ouwehand and I do not agree in a debate. We have acted within Article 68 of the Constitution. Ms Ollongren will also shortly show that there is a direct line from Klaas de Vries' 2002 letter to Ronald Plasterk's 2016 letter and the letter from Secretary of State Raymond Knops in November 2019, in the absence of Kajsa Ollongren. That was also the subject of a debate with the Chamber. This has been discussed openly here. The Chamber then asked for counter-expertise from experts. That debate has taken place here, in full openness, in the face of democracy, in the face of democracy. That's the way it's supposed to be. We have come to the conclusion that this is not back to 2002, but back to the mid-eighties that the provision of personal policy ideas in the light of the combination of Article 11 of the Public Administration Act, immediately de Woo, or now already de Woo, and Article 68 Constitution... Mrs Ollongren will also be addressing the question as soon as we do so. This also requires that we make sure that officials are not damaged. We can solve all that, we think. We have therefore chosen a different course in the response to the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee. But at that time there was a totally constitutional, direct line, within Article 68 of the Constitution, which was discussed openly here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u422	I think that this marks exactly the problem, namely that when the minutes are requested, the Prime Minister, as soon as those minutes are released, says: 'There is nothing crazy about it. You can find a lot of things like Room, but I'm telling you, there's nothing crazy about it. You can still debate it and you can ask me all about it, but there are no things in it that are weird." State lawyers think it's something else. We had a painful debate here a few weeks ago, particularly about a lying Prime Minister. On the next possibility, when we talk about Mr Wilders' reflection, who just asked him about it, he does not think to himself: could I hold myself back for a moment and not immediately tell him what I think? But he immediately says, "There's nothing weird about those minutes. You can have them, but there's nothing crazy in it." If so, why didn't we get the memo-Palms to the facts? The own Secretary of State could not give the answer to that question. He said, "I don't know."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u423	The short answer to the question "why isn't memo-Palms provided in November 2019?" is that we didn't own the memo at the time both politically and highly administratively. That's the answer to the question about the memo-Palms. Let me now turn to your other comment. When this happened and when we decided to publish those minutes, I thought I would give the appreciation of the cabinet that it is our belief that on the issue of how we dealt with the motion from November 2019, which calls for a factual account, nothing, and I underline "nothing' and keep that also standing "inauspicious' happened. That is a view of the cabinet. It is not the case that Mr Azarkan is forced to have that view. We have the debate on this. But I think the Cabinet has every right to give that appreciation at such a time. I don't see what's wrong with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u424	Now a committee in which a full Chamber is represented concludes that information has indeed been withheld and that this has been done on the basis of political motivations and political reasons. And then here is the Prime Minister, who wants to work on the connection, who wants to work on the trust and who still wants to continue as Prime Minister, who answers: "That's just not the case. I know better." Then I have one more question, not just about the memo-Palms. We have been asking for work instructions since 2017. Those instructions are important, because we wanted to know: why do civil servants do this? Why do civil servants deal with these groups of people in this way? We never got it. Work instructions have appeared stating that files you submit to the court do not need to be complete. Why didn't we get it before?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u425	These specific questions will be addressed later by Mr Hoekstra or Mrs Van Huffelen. I would like to say a few words about the report by the parliamentary interrogation committee. Because that report is perfectly clear. The cabinet fully endorses that report from a to z. That report states that it sometimes happened for political reasons. The only thing we have said is that we agree with that, but the only question is what is 'for political reasons'. If 'political reasons' were to mean that information was deliberately withheld, because it would be more politically convenient, then I say: we did not do that. The case that is under discussion today, namely the request from November 2019, is a special feature in that case. That's what today is about. Moreover, this cabinet has never said for political reasons: we are going to withhold information. So we fully support the conclusions of the parliamentary interrogation committee, but we do say, without doing anything about it, that we did not knowingly withhold information. In the case we are discussing today, we are talking about the interpretation of Article 68 of the Constitution, which has been discussed with the Chamber in full openness, also on the basis of a letter from Secretary of State, Mr Knops, but also on the responsibility for the actions of individual officials. Those were the two considerations for the cabinet in carrying out that motion. We have been completely open about this. I also agree with Mrs Hermans: the letter we sent on it could have been more comprehensive. When I read it, I thought it could have been sharper. But what is at stake here is precisely what I am saying here: for individual officials, the politicians are responsible and personal policy concepts of civil servants are not provided. We have been completely open about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u426	Mr Azarkan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u427	Yes, chairman, closing. This is exactly the Ruttedoctrine, just like: "I lied, but I did it to my conscience." You can't do that. You cannot say: 'I embrace that report and endorse the conclusions, but I do not agree with it, because we have an exception here, namely: if we report it for political reasons, these are relevant and valid political reasons'. That's not what the report says. It says in that report, based on minutes that have been seen, that Mr Snel will quickly get into trouble if information is made public. Surely that has nothing to do with the exception of Article 68?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u428	The two considerations I have just mentioned applied to the cabinet at that time. One. Not to mention civil servants in particular, but to assume responsibility for the functioning of those civil servants. Two. Do not provide documents drawn up for internal reflection. That was for the cabinet at that time the balance in the implementation of the Omtzigt motion. Here, but also elsewhere, we sincerely believe, we have not deliberately withheld information because it would be better for us politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u429	Mr President, I really do, but this really is bullshit. You should have provided that information to the Chamber, and you could have just blacked out the names of the officials. You could have just done that. The information was relevant. Maybe not even who wrote it down. Mrs Palmen's opinion was crucial, but it has been held back for a long time. You could've done that, too. You could have done that with the work instructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u430	The memo-Palmen, I say to Mr Azarkan, was not provided in November 2019, because the memo was not in our possession at the time, both politically and highly officially. That's why the memo Palmen hasn't been provided. That's serious enough, and the whole file is full of these terrible events. It is also full of moments when the information system is raging, because it is simply not in order. What we are talking about here is: has the cabinet tried to cover things up because it would be more politically convenient? I stand here: no, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u431	I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, then to Mr Van Haga and then to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u432	Just a brief word on this point. In the minutes of November 2019 it concerns the question of how the motion will be carried out. Then Minister Grapperhaus says: the question is whether the Secretary of State gets away with this. This wording does not suggest that information will be provided within the framework of the Constitution. That wording suggests that we're going to do something that's actually not right, but we're going to find a way to do it, and I'm going to help, said Minister Grapperhaus to Minister Hoekstra to fix it. I ask the Prime Minister once again: these are political motives, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u433	No. Mr Ferd Grapperhaus also reacted yesterday in the media. He also stated that he was right to point out that full information to the House of Representatives is of great importance, so that the Chamber can properly carry out its supervisory task. He also pointed out that you can see in the Minutes that there is a motion asking for that information. He also says that we should be able to show all the facts at once, but without mentioning the names of the officials. In that context, he has offered to take part in thinking about how to do that. That's how he meant it in the Council of Ministers, and no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u434	I really cannot conclude from the Minutes other than that there has been a search for a way not to carry out that motion in the way the Chamber intended it. It is not just the statement of Secretary of State Grapperhaus that gives me that. I also take this into account the next paragraph in which Secretary of State Snelly thanked Mr Grapperhaus for the offer and said that he would make use of it. And as far as the facts are concerned, speaker Snel lets us know not to give in to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u435	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u436	That doesn't sound like "I'm gonna bring up the bottom stone." Not only because the Chamber wants and asks, but also because I want to know. This sounds like "they want something, I don't want it, I'm looking for a way not to." That really sounds like a political motivation, I ask the Prime Minister once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u437	This is an essential part of the debate. It would be a big deal if a Council of Ministers with sixteen ministers were deliberating with four parties in flagrant delicto: how are we going to try not to inform the Chamber properly? Well, that didn't happen either. That didn't happen here. The request was made. We have been completely transparent that two important considerations were involved in the implementation of the request. I mentioned it. Firstly, not to throw the point of the officials in front of the bus by simply making the names public. Donner had already said that it was more of a structural cause and individual officials, and the AWR investigation was ongoing. And two, the long-standing 2002 procedure, again described in 2016, by Raymond Knops again in November 2019, namely that we do not provide documents for internal reflection. The latter is, by the way, different since our reaction to the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee. That is therefore an essential point. We're about to talk about individual MPs, and there's a lot more nuance to talk about. There are comments to be made in defence, but there are also things to be said about what is not going well there. But on this point, the cabinet is committed to being absolutely clear. We did not withhold information here because it would come out politically, and we have been completely transparent about the two considerations involved in dealing with the motion that had been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u438	Mrs Ploumen, closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u439	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. If I read those minutes and follow the line of thought as shown in the Minutes, I can only conclude that the conversation was conducted from a different basic position than 'we are going to bring up the bottom stone for carrying out that motion'. Then alternatives might have been devised, such as faking the names of officials, or perhaps making parts available. What Minister Grapperhaus and Secretary of State Snel and Minister Hoekstra exchange here really sounds like political motives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u440	And it isn't. Grapperhaus mentioned that yesterday in a public response, and I recognize that as well. That's one. Two is that at that time the accounting department of the Empire was already in the process of identifying who knew about this in the official and political leadership. Who knew when? That whole question was already investigated at that time, also by the accounting department of the Empire. There is no question that we did not want to share something we could have shared. We didn't figure out how to get around the Chamber with 16 ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u441	Thank you. Mr Van Haga and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe a more general question. It is interesting to read those minutes for once. There's something weird going on. When you read them, you see that you are 80% of the time dealing with the media, with political games. I wonder whether, if you see this afterwards and have to defend it here, also in the light of the nasty debate we have had last time, you do not think that this relationship is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u443	I have just said something about this in connection with the question of whether the cabinet was intrinsically motivated to resign and whether the victims were also mentioned in the cabinet. Those were very pressing questions in the first term of the Chamber. I started this after Wilders' interrupting debate about myself. When Menno Snel came up with the facts as they had become him in June 2019 and when the size began to become clear, we all were very touched. Again, we know by now that it has become hugely bigger after that, but then it turned out for the first time that it was much larger in size and what it meant for people. Then it is true that the trade ministers are working on it, but that the cabinet does not collectively work on it. That's what the Trade Minister does. He comes to the cabinet with his proposals and you often see that these proposals are quickly accepted, because there was a great deal of agreement in the cabinet on how to deal with this terrible crisis and this terrible childcare allowance affair. There was a great deal of agreement about it and therefore you see relatively little more discussion about what he is doing to deal with it. From June on, and from December on, Wopke Hoekstra has been for a few months and then Alexandra van Huffelen, virtually continuously, it is too much to say 24/7 with a large group of good officials working to manage that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u444	But that's not what I'm talking about. Of course, we all think that this surcharge affair is dramatic. You agree, and that is why the entire cabinet has resigned. I am more concerned with the fact that those minutes show that you are 80% involved in the media and in political games. You worked at Unilever. I worked at Shell. If you did that out there this way, you'd just get fired. Then you went out horizontally. I wonder if you don't think this affair is wrong. Shouldn't it just be about the result and not about the process? There's gonna be a lot of comments. Don't you think it should be about the result and not about the process and the games?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u445	You will see, of course, those documents from the reports on the child care allowance affair, a matter on which there was a great deal of consensus in the cabinet. We tried to get control of the Menno Snel compass, encouraged, of course, from the Chamber, as quickly as possible via the Donner Committee, through the ADR investigation, through all the initiatives taken to manage it. In such a Council of Ministers on Friday, we usually discuss three hours of foreign policy, matters that are at stake in Europe, the major social issues at the time. Of course, you will not see it in these minutes, because we have only provided the document on this subject. This is a subject in which there was a high degree of agreement on the policy direction based on the choices presented by the directors of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u446	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u447	So I can assume that if we request the minutes of next month, for example, and they happen to get their hands on them, or if they are leaked, you will never know, we will see a different ratio, we will see ministers 80% working on the result and running this country instead of political games and the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u448	I leave the qualifications of what Mr Van Haga thinks he should read in the Minutes to him anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u449	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u450	If I have listened to the Prime Minister correctly, he says that his remark that nothing inauspicious would come out of the Minutes would strike at the piece of information to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u451	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u452	That is what my question is about. Does the Prime Minister consider that a decision taken by a State Secretary falls within the scope of internal reflection? Is it a policy view of an official or does he think that, if a State Secretary takes a decision, this should be shared with the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u453	I can only say that at that point in time the sieve with which we looked at that request was that you did not provide personal policy views of officials, even if they were shared with the ruler. The other part of the motion that was tabled was how you deal with the question of who did this, which officials are responsible for this. If Mrs Marijnissen wishes to name a particular piece, I would like to look at it. But such a general question cannot be answered. If she has a concrete memo or note, which she wants to know why we didn't provide, then I'd like to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u454	Sure. This is about the piece of 5 September 2019, which contains a number of things. It says that the group covers 8,000 to 10,000 people. That was not known at the time in the Lower House. We thought it was just a few hundred people. It says that the Tax Administration itself has great doubts as to whether it is not all a bit too harsh what is happening. It also says that the taking of the people continues, so the payroll, house expulsions, you name it all. That is the decision taken by Secretary of State Snel, part of the cabinet of this Prime Minister. I therefore repeat my question once again. Does the Prime Minister still believe that such a decision by the Secretary of State is subject to internal consideration? It was not shared with the House of Representatives. Or does he have a different opinion on that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u455	Then I really want to see the play. Perhaps she can forward it to Mr Hoekstra, so he can involve it in his part of the reply. I'm not going to respond on the basis of this information, because I can't face the part right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u456	That surprises me, Mr President, because it is precisely this piece that has been very extensive in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u457	Sure, but I don't have the play here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u458	You don't know it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u459	I don't have it ready here. I'd like to study it first. Again, Wopke Hoekstra is about to go into more specific questions about what was shared with the Chamber during that period. Maybe it's a good thing you sent it to him. Then he can go to it on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u460	Then you can ask your questions about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u461	I think it's a bit of a weird thing to do. I'd love to forward a piece. The point was correct that it was not sent in time from the cabinet to the House of Representatives. That piece wasn't part of the story of the facts. But it does contain decisions that have been taken by Secretary of State Snel and that have had consequences for a lot of people. That's why I'm surprised the Prime Minister says he doesn't know the play. It's a crucial piece. As a result, the misery has lasted so much longer for so many thousands of parents. And then the Prime Minister says he doesn't know the play?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u462	No, I didn't say that. I said I don't have the play ready right now. Mrs Marijnissen asks me for an appreciation of a discussion from November 2019. Then I say I want to see the piece first and I want some official advice on what happened to it. I'm not just gonna respond to it like l'improviste. In order to serve the Chamber to the maximum, my suggestion is that Wopke Hoekstra, who will be speaking later in the process and can answer questions that go into more detail on specific pieces and timelines, will involve the piece in his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u463	I am asking the Prime Minister because, as far as we are concerned, this is the crucial point of the debate. It appears that the misery for these parents has lasted much longer than was necessary. The Prime Minister himself says that nothing inaudible has happened when it comes to providing information to the House of Representatives...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u464	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u465	"No," he shouts again. Well, then, Mr. President! Or does he think that I repeat my question in general that a decision of the Secretary of State falls under the heading 'internal deliberations' and therefore does not need to be shared with the House of Representatives? Does he think so? It's one of both, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u466	I get the question. Mrs Marijnissen refers to a specific piece. I would like to have official advice on this in order to hear what was previously shared with the Chamber. Again, to serve her to the maximum is my suggestion that she pass the details on to Hoekstra. Then he can take it up in his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u467	But these aren't details. Again, I'll hand over the piece in a moment, no problem at all. However, these are not details; this is the core. This said that it involved 8,000 to 10,000 people. That was already known at the time, but was not shared with the Chamber. It said that the Tax Administration had serious doubts as to whether this was okay. The decision has been made: we continue to take things away from those people. As a result, the misery has lasted so much longer. My question to the Prime Minister is one more time: does he think in general that it should be shared with the House of Representatives if the Secretary of State makes a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u468	That is what Mrs Marijnissen is asking for on the basis of a specific document which she has. I only suspect in a general sense what's in it. I would like to know more details about this and I would also like to be advised by the public about what happened to it in the communication to the Chamber at that time. I think that's correct. I can't exactly oversee it right now. In order to serve her as much as possible immediately, my suggestion is that Wopke Hoekstra will be involved in his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u469	I think, Mrs. Marijnissen... I see it over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u470	But there's no answer to the question. I'm fine with it. I'll give you the play. But apart from the piece, I ask it in general. We have a whole discussion about the provision of information to the House of Representatives. It is the Prime Minister who still insists that nothing inauspicious has come out of those minutes. So I ask him: is he of the opinion that if a Secretary of State makes a decision in general, then that decision should be taken by the House of Representatives? Or does he think this is an internal matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u471	I would then first like to look at that document, to see whether I agree with Mrs Marijnissen's opinion on the character of the document, what has happened to it, how it has been provided or not, and what is the reason for it. I can't see that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u472	I understand Mrs Marijnissen's question. It's an important document. The Prime Minister states that Mr Hoekstra will come back to it later. And, of course, you will also have the opportunity to ask questions about this to the Prime Minister in the second term. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u473	Absolutely. We've got all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u474	I understand that, Mr. Chairman, but this is not about the specific piece. I put a general question to the Prime Minister about the provision of information to the House of Representatives. He says nothing inappropriate happened, so I'm just asking for a general statement from him. Does he think, in principle, that if a Secretary of State makes a decision, then it should be shared with the House of Representatives, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u475	That is what Mrs Marijnissen is asking in the context of the document she is now in control of. I think it's right to study that piece first. I will be able to answer the general question later on, including Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u476	Sorry, Mrs Marijnissen, I understand your question, but this is going to be a repeat of moves. The Prime Minister is, of course, concerned with his own answer. He may reflect on this in the second term and come back to it, if that's okay with you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u477	Absolutely. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u478	Because if we don't, we're gonna keep ping-ponging each other and we're not gonna get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u479	I note, then, that the Prime Minister wants to maintain here that nothing inauspicious has happened, but that he refuses to answer the simple question: if a State Secretary makes a decision, is that decision to be shared with the House of Representatives or not? Well, that's a good thing to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u480	The Prime Minister asks us to believe when he says that the Council of Ministers, those sixteen ministers, have not tried to withhold anything from the House of Representatives. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u481	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u482	The opposite is also true. If the Prime Minister says that the Chamber should believe this, you could also say: the Council of Ministers did not do everything to share all the information with the House of Representatives. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u483	Then I would like to know what Mr Klaver is referring to. Maybe in the piece that Mrs Marijnissen just mentioned, but that is what we are going to find out. I can only say that the cabinet has tried to carry out the motion properly and has also reported to the Chamber, in a number of letters, how we would do that, and that the considerations I have just mentioned played a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u484	I get that. I have said it many times today: how do we get out of this debate? The Prime Minister says trust us on that now. I'm kind of inclined to do that. But then I'm gonna ask him to listen to us very carefully. The feeling at the Chamber is that maybe it wasn't all malicious that you didn't try to inform us. But the other thing is true, in my opinion: you have not done everything to inform us as much as possible. You say you had a legitimate reason not to want to share information. Mr Azarkan spoke about this. You didn't want to mention civil servants by name here in the Chamber. My group has never been in favour of this either. I get that. But you've never had a problem with the black coating of documents. In this case, yes. So you had to inform the Chamber at several times. That is what we point out. You did not do that, the Council of Ministers we are talking about today. So can you agree with me when I say: I would like to believe that you didn't do it on purpose and that you didn't try to withhold information, but do you agree with me that you didn't do everything you could to inform the Chamber as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u485	What we could have done is to carry out the motion completely, by giving the names of civil servants. That was difficult, because at that time the ADR was working on it and we were working under the assumption of the advisory committee on the surcharges, which said: they are structural causes and it is not caused by individuals with evil in the sense. That was one part. But the cabinet has expressed its views: we are responsible for civil servants. We shared that with the Chamber. The second factor involved in the implementation of the motion was that these were documents drawn up for internal reflection. We wanted to provide information on this in objective form, but not those documents themselves. Of course, we could have chosen to provide it, but we would have deviated from a policy that had been in force for decades. There is another point, Mr Koolmees, which I should like to make now. I just said that in the direction of one of the other questioners. It is, of course, clear, as you can see in the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee, that the general information system of the government on this particular subject was anything but good.] I'll take care of everything, and I'll take care of that part of the POK report as well. It was also true that there were major problems with the information system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u486	Why do I think this is such an important point in the debate? That's because sometimes here in The Hague it seems like you're just absolutely right and absolutely wrong. But often there's something in between. I'm inclined to go along with that. But then I think it is important that the Prime Minister also dares to admit that the cabinet has not done the best it can to inform the House of Representatives. I'm glad he's come to the understanding that things need to change, but I think it's important to admit that. Because if you're afraid to admit your mistake, then you can't really change intrinsically. I don't understand why the Prime Minister has trouble admitting this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u487	I'm gonna try to see if I agree with Clover or not. If we disagree, we disagree. Maybe we agree. The fact that officials are not mentioned is a very serious issue for me personally. I believe that ministers are responsible for the functioning of the official organisation and that we should not 'expose' civil servants. In addition, the ADR investigated this. With regard to the second point, Article 68, the grounds for refusing to provide documents drawn up for internal reflection, my thinking and that of the cabinet has changed considerably since November 2019. You will also see this in the response to the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee. Mrs Ollengren will comment on how we are trying to have this new system completely reduced from 1 July onwards and to provide the documents. Upon reflection, as the British say, I think that Dutch politics have looked far too closely and I have to deal with this much more relaxedly for the past ten years. We're doing the same thing now with the pieces of the Catshuis, those slide decks. When Louis Asscher asked for this, I thought for a moment: yes, but then you see all kinds of building blocks of decisions. But what does it really matter that you see these building blocks of decisions? Eventually, the cabinet makes a decision. But that's okay, isn't it? That's what we all do now. Is that what Clover means?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u488	Yeah, you could say that in a way. But it's either you're trying to exonerate yourself and say we really didn't do this wrong and we really didn't want to misinform the Chamber. Or are you looking for the mistake of yourself and saying: yes, we could have done more to inform the Lower House then, but we didn't do that and that was wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u489	I would like to talk about this internally in our group and come back to it in the second term. We also talked about it during the break and you saw it at Koolmees on Monday: the emotion is not in the fact that there is criticism of that talk about MPs, because there is criticism of that. I'll get to that in a minute. The emotion is on this piece, November 2019, and we sincerely do not believe that we have applied these two grounds with a wrong intention. We have already released one of these two grounds. Our thinking, at least my thinking, has changed. But Klaver says: couldn't you have provided more, with due regard for that land? That would then assume that at that time we had the intention to provide less than we would like. That's just not our feeling. So I find it complicated to meet Clover in that. But I do agree with him that, as far as personal policy is concerned, we now have a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u490	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u491	If that's not the Prime Minister's feeling, then he shouldn't agree with me. But that's exactly what I think is the problem. The feeling that I, with my fellow Members, am left with this debate and what is constantly happening, is that you are trying to say: we did nothing wrong at the time. I don't think you can keep that up. You may ask the House of Representatives that we not only think in absolutely right and absolute wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u492	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u493	But here pretending that didn't go wrong... it did go wrong. The Chamber is not well informed. If you ask us to believe you, it would help our group to say clearly here: yes, we should have done more. Period. No ifs, no buts. That outright admitting, helps to move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u494	Koolmeis says: that is the conclusion of the POK and we will take care of it. Agreed. But we also have to be honest with Clover. He is now asking me whether we should not have done more on this dossier. I mention the two considerations why we believe that we have done well and why we believe that we have not withheld any information to cover up the matter because it would be political. Agreed. We are now doing these documents on internal reflection; we are now thinking differently about that. But he even asks "taking into account what was then in force, should you not have done then, was the intention then...?" To be honest, I find it rather complicated to say yes to that now. 'Cause we don't feel that way, do we? That is what I am asking my colleagues. We have, of course, talked a lot about this internally over the last few days. So I can't say anything about that on behalf of the cabinet. I don't feel that myself. I think we have really tried to do this conscientiously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u495	We have this debate. You can ask: what exactly is this about, in what words? But if you're trying to change something in the way you work, I really think this is a crucial point. You either try to exonerate yourself, or you look at yourself and see what you could have done better. And then, as far as I'm concerned, you speak frankly about that. I am not going to repeat this. I understand that's not how the Cabinet and the Prime Minister experience it. But I find that a pity, because I think it is also part of the restoration of trust to simply say: House of Representatives, we really didn't deliberately try to keep this behind, but we could have done more, and that was wrong. Period. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u496	At least there are two things we could have done more. Later, of course, we said: we deal with this second ground differently. And the second is what Sophie Hermans said in the first term about the letter itself. We are not included in that letter either. When I read it back, I thought we could have been clearer about exactly what moved us. But there's something I have to say honestly. We have also discussed this internally, and you have heard the cabinet. So I can't just go along with that now. But listen, we're gonna talk about that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u497	Perhaps that will be possible in the second term. Mrs Simons and then Mr Segers. This is all about block one, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u498	I just want to reflect on the word "intent," which has fallen a few times. It was not the "intention" of this cabinet to inform the Chamber not fully or not. I can, and I can believe it. Well, it may be that you're doing something, not necessarily with the intention of harming someone else, but that eventually you're hurting the other one. If I am not mistaken, you are actually saying: "That is right; we have done the same. We have drawn the consequences and the cabinet has resigned." I'd like to go a little further. In fact, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is possible to hear from him that, despite the fact that it was not intended to throw the Chamber on the wrong foot, the Chamber was wrong. That's one. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u499	One more time. I'm just trying to digest it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u500	It wasn't your intention to throw the Chamber on the wrong foot. Can you agree with the idea that it did happen anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u501	In the file as such, yes. We are now, of course, talking very specifically about that motion from November 2019. As far as that is concerned, we don't think that's what happened. But if you look at the whole investigation, and you see this information business in the government and all the other things, then the answer is yes. At all times, of course, the information you wanted at some point has not come up. Take the memo-Palmen; which was neither political nor highly professionally known in November 2019. So, of course, the answer is yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u502	Then I have another question. Mr Klaver is actually asking for moral awareness. I hear you say that there was no political motivation. In fact, I can also ask you the question I asked Mrs Hermans. Political motivation or not, was the decision not to inform the Chamber in the way it requested, correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u503	We believe so, because we have also described in detail the two reasons we had for how we dealt with the request to the Chamber. That is why we believe that the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u504	Does the Prime Minister still mean that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u505	Yes. But I also say, when Mr Klaver looks at me so intensely, we go there again, as a team too, and we sit here and talk about this with six people. But right now, that answer is yes. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u506	I'm so curious what it would take. Because not only does the Chamber need that, not only does Mr Klaver need it and not only do I need it, but again, there are people at home who are personally affected. I believe the Prime Minister when he says it affects him personally. And what these people need is actually nothing but a sincere mea culpa...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u507	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u508	...and that doesn't seem to come from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u509	I disagree. I apologized on behalf of the cabinet in the January debate to the victims of this terrible affair. In doing so, people have fallen completely between the wheels of the system. Families are torn apart. Mothers are separated from children. Companies have broken down. Marriages broke down. People who were well known and famous were told of their immediate surroundings: yes, but if the Tax Administration accuses you of that, you must have done it. When they didn't do it. This is so horrible. In June 2019 it began to become visible in its intensity. I just said that no one in the cabinet or in the Chamber is going into politics to do this. It fills us all with deep shame. The question that is being asked here is very specific. How did the Cabinet deal with the Chamber's motion in November 2019? Did we try to withhold information at that time, because it would be better for us politically? I honestly don't think so. Mr Klaver says: reflect on it again. If Mr Klaver asks me such a question, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u510	Finally, Mrs Simons. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u511	I would also like to congratulate Mrs Simons on her maiden speech. I was just about to start. It was a wonderful story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u512	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u513	Mr Segers, Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u514	At this point, anyway. If the Prime Minister says, "Trust us on our intentions," I understand. It was the concern of Minister Koolmees, who said: we sat there in good faith. I really want to believe that. As I know these people, so do I. But that doesn't always mean you've made the right decision. The parliamentary interrogation committee says: "The provision of information to the Chamber was immeasurable, incomplete and at times incorrect. In answering parliamentary questions, transparency and openness were not the guiding principles." That says a lot about what actually happened, doesn't it? It's not about intentions. I see all those who sincerely intend to make the country a little better, but in the meantime it has been a harsh judgment of this parliamentary interrogation committee. The cabinet itself said: we endorse it from a to z.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u515	Yeah, we do. I agree with Mr Segers: it is terrible. At all times, signals have been received on this subject. The Ombudsman's report was published in 2017. A few weeks ago, I had a visit from Reinier van Zutphen. We talked about that back then. But even before that, there were signals. Parliamentary questions were asked in 2009, I think from the corner of the SP, PVV and others. I'm trying to activate the entire file in my head now. I also believe in 2015. But only in June 2019 will it be on the table for the first time in the cabinet. This is horrible. So all these signals have never been seen or valued. Information was rattling. In December and January, the cabinet devoted three very long meetings to it. I found that very impressive cabinet meetings. After hesitation and intense discussion, the cabinet unanimously and collectively concluded that only one response fits here, and that is resignation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u516	The reaction is now very defensive. The Prime Minister says we've always tried to do well. Again, I believe that. The parliamentary interrogation committee strongly condemns this. There is a very defensive response here to the question whether it has always gone well, while I think we really need to reflect now. I did that myself in January. I thought at the time: that Ombudsman's report was somewhere on an office with me in the summer of 2017...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u517	Exactly. Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u518	...and I should have been able to see. I didn't see that. The full size became clear to me as well only in the summer of 2019. In May and June of 2019 the Secretary of State says: "It's going to go wrong. The tax authorities are pounding and nowhere has a button been pressed to stop the recovery." And if the parliamentary interrogation committee says this and judges it so harshly, then things have obviously gone horribly wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u519	Absolutely. Things have gone terribly wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u520	I listen to Mr Klaver, like: reflect on it; it also went wrong. It sounded a little defensive in my ears. It also sounded a little misplaced in my ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u521	But that was also the debate in January. I don't want to be defensive about that for a second. The cabinet resigned because tens of thousands of people were wronged. It's really horrible. It's really horrible. Alexandra van Huffelen has a lot of conversations with parents. We had talks with Wopke Hoekstra in February and March. Recently we spent a Friday evening together from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. with the parent panel. They were incredibly fantastic people from all over the Netherlands, who have themselves been hit very hard and are committed to trying to help manage the situation. They do this under the direction of Arre Zuurmond, the Ombudsman of Amsterdam. We also started that meeting with the question to everyone "tell us about your life." There is someone who has come from abroad to the Netherlands and feels that she has also been treated racistly. A woman whose family has lived here for generations, whose normal family has been completely demolished by us, the State. It's really horrible. I can't say otherwise. It is so poignant, I think we can only say that to each other, or let me keep it to myself: deep shame. Apologies are made. I want to repeat them, but we need to help solve the problem now. What is now going on here, and perhaps that sounds the defensive side by side, is very specific about this motion and how we dealt with it. There is the emotion in our minds that we sincerely believe that we have not tried to conceal anything for political reasons. That's the end of it. Then Klaver says: discuss that again with each other. We're gonna do that, so I'll come back to that in second term. I also don't want to be here on that particular... But that is that specific topic November 2019. That's not about the whole file, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u522	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u523	Finally. Thank you for this reflection, because the political reflex was: how can we actually manage this? And that did not immediately lead to the cessation of recovery and the immediate resolution of the problem. It wasn't over for months. That calls for a greater and deeper reflection than we can give here now, but that is a political reflex that we need to suppress. We really need to look back in the eyes of that citizen who tells these poignant stories. For them we do it, and not primarily for our mutual relationships or for those who are difficult. We're really doing it for that citizen, and that's got to come first again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u524	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u525	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u526	It is still a fundamental problem that a committee of inquiry which has been asked by the Chamber to carry out interrogations under oath came to the conclusion that there were reasons for the desired legal and political outcome, that the entire House of Representatives also embraced it at that time, but that the cabinet continues to say: no, that was not the case. The Prime Minister does two things. On the one hand, he is trying to make me believe that he is, and I believe that the cabinet was shocked. "We were quiet about it." But then he says "a lot went wrong," as if that was just a natural phenomenon that happened just like that, which they happened to be responsible for, because they were then "the cabinet." What he always does is give the impression that this conclusion about these political reasons immediately means that the cabinet is made up of people who had planned to help people in the tribulation. Then he says, "No one goes into the cabinet to do this to people." No, no one's suggesting that either. The question is about that intermediate area. You're Minister, you're Prime Minister, you're responsible. And then the information comes up. What do you do? Is your reflex "it's very difficult for us, so how do we deal with it?" Or is your reflex "we're gonna help these people"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u527	That last one. That last one. I just said no one in Chamber and Cabinet is here to destroy people. That has nothing to do with specifically the case November 2019. Nor does that have anything to do with the fact that the cabinet itself has made serious mistakes, by not attacking the previous cabinet and this cabinet on signals from the Ombudsman up to and including what happened afterwards. That's why we resigned. To be clear: it is indeed and clusterfuck, or what did Dijkhoff say something more sophisticated: a cluster...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u528	A catastrophe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u529	A catastrophe of unprecedented magnitude. That is perfectly clear. I'm not taking anything away from that, really nothing. Nor do I alter the conclusions that we endorse from a to z. Okay, okay, okay. That.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u530	But let's get this straight. No one claims that there are people in the cabinet who deliberately destroy people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u531	No, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u532	Nobody does. And no one denies that the problem is made up of many different parts, including indeed those implementing services, including indeed those totally flawed information systems. Those are all things that you can say: things went wrong. That's right. But what we are talking about is that there have been political reasons for this. That means that if the cabinet continues to do so, and I am very curious whether everyone will support it, we will not be able to rely on the cabinet. We have been able to read and check in the minutes that the committee has really done its job and that the conclusion reached by the Chamber was a correct conclusion. There were some political reasons behind this, in part. It is very problematic for the confidence that the cabinet continues to deny it. I'm expressing myself very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u533	But isn't it a bit of a question of what exactly political reasons are? The cabinet decided not to call civil servants by name, that asked the motion in fact, seemed to us and would not provide the documents for internal deliberation, because we have not done so for a long time. You can say: those are political reasons. But these are not political reasons in the sense that we thought: we deliberately withhold documents, because it suits us better. It's not that. I can very well live with saying that these are, of course, political considerations. It is political considerations to say, I can very well live with that, that we do not give the names of officials and that we do not give personal policy ideas. Only, what matters to me and where our emotions are, is not whether we agree on the definition of political reasons. Maybe that way we can agree. The emotion with us is that now there would be the impression that when dealing with that request from 2019 we tried to cover things up. We sincerely believe that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u534	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u535	Finally. So it is really very bad that we have to bully this into the mind of the cabinet. But, of course, it goes beyond simply implementing the motion for a resolution adopted unanimously. It is also about what we have seen in the minutes of the Council of Ministers of 4 July, in which Secretary of State Snel warns that "the House of Representatives will try to broaden the debate, for example by calling attention to all matters, including non-CAF-related matters, where citizens have been unduly disadvantaged by the Tax Administration." Imagine if the House of Representatives wants to have a discussion about people who have been wrongly harmed by the Tax Office! That's what the Cabinet has been talking about. On this point the cabinet concluded Minister Schouten had a nice proposal for "let's inform the Chamber, but not draw unnecessary attention to other sensitive matters." Imagine the room talking about those people!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u536	This point and what is said about it also have to do with precedent. The question of the SP in the first term was also where this plays even more, how many people are in trouble and where. Minister Koolmees will be addressing the questions in a moment, including the question of precedent. I would like to ask: wait a moment for that answer. Maybe you're interrupting him. I think that answer could be helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u537	The proposal is that the Minister for Social Affairs should answer the question. I should like to give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij and then to Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u538	There is no doubt that too late and incorrect information about this whole affair has come to the Chamber. In fact, that is already in the decision list of the June 2019 Council of Ministers. So many words have been put forward by Secretary of State Snel. The question is: how exactly did that happen? We have talked about the scope of Article 68 and we have discussed what is coming to the Chamber. We have a second, factual, question of what was actually known, so the issue of inadequate information management. On both points, we also see actions by the outgoing cabinet, which says: we are going to explain Article 68 differently and we are going to work to improve information management. However, I note that in the more broad analyses, the Council of State said that, for example, in the unsolicited opinion on ministerial responsibility from the summer of 2020, there is sometimes a third reason. It is that rulers show too little sensitivity to certain signals that there is something wrong, that there is an attitude that something goes wrong everywhere and that it is being realized too late: there is more to it than a few incidents. My question is: is that leak now above water with all the actions being deployed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u539	Very specific: on the question of whether the leak is above water, Koolmees goes so into more detail. That is a question that was also asked in the first term: where else does it play? How many people are in trouble and where? That is what we are working on, including as a follow-up to the report. But there is another question from Mr Van der Staaij. That question is quite fundamental. That's when signals get visible at some point... I talked to Louis Asscher about that. He had it in his interrogation and later, when he resigned as leader of the Labour Party, about the one letter he had received. He said, "I should have walked into the department with that letter." My first reaction was: yes, wait a minute. I used to be Secretary of State for Social Affairs. You get five to ten letters a day from people from the country; they are called "citizens' letters," a terrible term. The answers are prepared by policy direction. Then you get the letter and the answer, and then you see if you think those two are synchronized. There really are a lot of them, at least in my day they were a lot of letters; maybe they are more by now. My first reaction to him was: don't you make yourself too complicated now? Because when you get a letter like that, the standard reaction is: we don't deal with individual cases; we pass it on to the Ministry of Finance, because we shouldn't interfere with individual cases. We had that conversation together about how complicated it is. Within General Affairs, where of course we do not get very much, but also citizens' letters, I said: how can we discover trends in letters? That's an example, isn't it? Of course, there's so much coming for a minister. Those bags are full, et cetera et cetera. Actually, it's a matter of how you organize it. This is reflected in our response to the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance. How do you organize that if you put the knitting through all these signals and see trends, you can respond to those trends in time? This is one of the major issues that lies ahead: how do you get much more intimacy between policy-making and implementation? It all seems so obvious, but the IRS isn't even a Zbo. The Tax Administration is part of the Ministry of Finance, so being Zbo is not the argument either: oh, they are at a great distance. No, the IRS is formally all part of the Ministry. This is such an incredibly difficult one. I'm not ruling out the Van der Staaij's right either. If you get so much on your plate and you see a signal that you think is "wow, that's solid," you think "it's one signal and that's what the IRS is doing." That's why I did say to Louis Asscher "don't make things too difficult" and at the same time thought "but this is what we have to do." If we really think that something is going wrong, of course we should also try to follow up. It's also an organizational issue. It's almost superhuman to always see that, when you know how many paper flows, pieces flow, proposals, letters come to a minister. That's okay. We're not grumbling. We get paid well for it and they're beautiful jobs. But to continue to see trends in that whole and also to remain administratively sharp when there are such trends.... My biggest fear is that that is exactly what I said to the parents at the last Parents' Panel, which is that at the moment, once again, there is Koolmees going to be one, two or three other places in the government that we don't know about and that we are here in two or three years' time and then say: but actually we had a signal there, there was a first thing that started to come up, the Ombudsman had also said something about it. In two years' time, you're gonna say, "This was a huge problem that we didn't get shot at in time." If that were to happen, it would be so terrible. How do you organize it so that it is visible to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u540	I think that is indeed an important point. How do you avoid thinking it's just a few incidents, when when you're actively on top of it, you find that there's actually a pattern going on? That is precisely what is so frustrating for the Members of Parliament who were involved in this affair. They felt, knew that it was broader and were often told "they are actually incidents," "it's not that bad," etc. My question remains, however, about the future, how we can also bring about a change in attitude there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u541	Everyone is so shocked by this that I hope that will work in terms of attitude. But will it happen? Of course, I can't give that 100% guarantee. You don't know that until something doesn't go wrong. I believe that we, Chamber and Cabinet, have learned from this and should not do so again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u542	Mr Dassen and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u543	I spoke earlier about the importance of information, also as oxygen for our work, in order to do that properly, controlling the sitting power. Now we're talking about incidents and trends. I hear the Prime Minister say several reasons why the Chamber has not been fully informed in this matter, but I would like to go a little wider. Research by Wim Voermans has also shown that under the leadership of Mr Rutte, the Chamber is often not informed, incorrect or incomplete. There's even a 65% increase. I was wondering if the Prime Minister saw that trend coming and how he explained it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u544	No, I didn't see that coming. However, I am pleased that, as a result of the parliamentary interrogation committee, we have decided to change that way of looking at, dealing with, Rule 68 in relation to documents for internal reflection. I think that's a very important adjustment. There was also the frustration of journalists, also from the Wob as there was, about endlessly chasing behind pieces. I know from journalists that this has caused enormous irritation over the years. So I'm glad we did. Again, I also reflect on my own role after April 1st. I do not have exactly the right to know why that would have increased in the last ten years. Then I should read that piece of Voermans again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u545	Then we'll make sure Mr. Rutte gets it. I think it is important that he also looks more closely at what this means for the future. How come that rise has been so immense? Does that have anything to do with a broader or actually narrower interpretation of Article 68, or does that have any other explanation? I'd be curious to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u546	Fine. First Mr Klaver, then Mrs Ploumen and I suggest we go to block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u547	Already to block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u548	Block three. Well, look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u549	Of the four.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u550	I have a question that fits well with what Mr Dassen said. Has the Council of Ministers also mentioned the families with names and names?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u551	I've responded to that before. After my interruption debate with Wilders, in which we looked back on April 1st, I outlined that we had an intense moment in June 2019 when Menno Snels informed us how big we now know that things were even bigger back then and how much more serious they were about content. There was also the realization that this affects people. Then, in December 2020, when we started to talk about the report of the Committee of Inquiry, Mrs Alexandra van Huffelen had a very impressive video, in which people, children and parents, are speaking to raise our awareness once again, I would almost like to say that we are aware of the intensity of what is going on here. I just said, in the previous reply, that we, after we had that moment in June 2019... In the cabinet it works so that after that, of course, the Secretary of State will start to solve all the problems that came back, and the cabinet will talk about it again. Actually, there were no big discussions at the time about what he was doing. We were usually in agreement with his proposals. The next time I had to face up to people who were involved in this, I was in Rijswijk in De Broodfabriek at the meeting in January 2020, when the finance minister, Wopke Hoekstra, and I had talks with extra-parents there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u552	In fact, the Prime Minister says with a lot of words: no, that was not the issue in the Council of Ministers, other than with the video in December 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u553	No, I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that. I say that Snel had seen the full extent of his ministry in June 2019. He brought that to the cabinet on Friday. We didn't talk about the Jansen family or the case X, Y, or Z, so detailed, but we did talk about how serious it is what went wrong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u554	I get that. I knew that too, but I'm asking the question on purpose. You were right to say something about the conversation you had with Louis Asscher. That's good. You admit quite honestly: my, how do you do that? So much is coming for you as a minister, and yet that is the core, where not only the representative of the people has to keep in touch with citizens, as we all do here and refer here to the e-mails we get and the conversations we have, but also to the directors. That is why my question is: has it not just been about the size of the Council of Ministers? Over 8,000 or 10,000 cases? In the end, that stays a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u555	Not in June. That's when it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u556	But is it also about the individuals? Was it about families? Has it been about Mrs. Jansen, to which you referred?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u557	No, but it's about what this means to people. That's what we talked about back then. It was about people dealing with such a heavy refund and with a government that she doesn't trust but distrusts, when they didn't cheat. That's what it was about. But I admit we haven't talked about... No, not that. That was indeed in December 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u558	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u559	That's a missed opportunity. I wonder if the Prime Minister has learned from that, even for the follow-up, how important it is. He says, "I don't know what's going on right now." I don't know. Let's hope it's not, but somewhere in the big government, people are in trouble right now. Is it not of the utmost importance that the Council of Ministers, which he is chairing, also raises these cases? It is said that we are seeing something that I do not think is right in the system; this is how people get into trouble. That changes the perspective when you talk about precedent. It's easier to talk about it in the vein of "Watch out, what does this mean?" If you don't have a face. Then it's easy to control, I'll say, because then it's about big systems, while the government, the ministers, the individual, the human being, must keep seeing. You have such incredible power over there in that Council of Ministers. If you don't have those individuals in mind, it still can't be your intention to hit people, but it still happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u560	What Mr. Klaver says hits me. I agree with him. I also think we should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u561	There's every day for that too, especially on a day like today. Open the newspaper Trouw. On the front page there is an emergency cry wrapped in an article saying: in the service that is to ensure that parents get the €30,000, it is "I paraphrase" a chaos. While I'm sitting here, a lady on Twitter says: I see you're looking at your phone, Mrs Ploumen; please, take it up for me; from 2019 we're already on the phone, and we'd hear something before 1 May and it's a real mess. So my question is: you also read Trouw in that media review this morning? What were you thinking? And more importantly, what did you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u562	Apart from a very short contact with Alexandra van Huffelen, I have not yet been able to look into this. At 11 a.m. we were expected in the Chamber. I do know that Alexandra van Huffelen has been fully prepared for these questions. I have seen some of that too, because I have seen a copy of the annotations she has to respond to. I think there's a lot to say about it. It is extremely important that we also try to use this debate to say exactly where the message is wrong and where things are not going well. I think that's exactly what Van Huffelen is about to do. But I did not have the opportunity this morning, because I also had to do something about corona for a short time, and we have, of course, also prepared this debate with each other. I knew Van Huffelen was on it. To be honest, I also expected that there was a chance that you would ask 'come in' and if that had not been the case, then Wopke Hoekstra would have gone into that. But I did see the annotation and I think it's a nuanced image. I can say that when I look at it that way, there is an incredible amount of hard work at the Tax Office to pay out that €30,000. But it is indeed a very large operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u563	Indeed, it is only sensible that we have asked if the Secretary of State could be present, because she is in charge of this day-to-day. I'll ask her, too. I understand that the Prime Minister has other files as well, but my point is that, with everything that has happened and the intention to do better, every day is a chance to do better for those parents. It's just not going well. They get letters of rejection that don't add up. Those letters say: you can't actually object or appeal. In spite of all the fine words of today and yesterday, these people feel put back in the cold. I would like to say to the Prime Minister that you must relate more to this than a brief moment on the front page. You must also take responsibility for this. That doesn't have to be in the daily management, but it has to be because it's almost May 1st and they still don't have the €30,000. We've been talking about this all day. I would say: if you want to learn, and you have just said so, at least do it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u564	Just to show you that I think I do, too. Again, this morning this was the news in Trouw. I've seen some of the Secretary of State's annotations and I think it's really a more nuanced picture, but I'll let her respond to the content in a moment. Let me show you the importance of what I attach to it. Here's my weekly schedule. There are three things on that, plus I still have to apologize to Caroline van der Plas for misrepresentation of her party's name in a previous debate; I have corrected that. There's three things on it: formation, well, it doesn't take a lot of time at the moment, "corona" and "KOT." "KOT" means: childcare allowance. These are the three things. Then there is 'BAR' in brackets, and that stands for the Brexit Adjustment Reserve discussion in Europe about that little game of money because of the English problem, but that seems to be heading in the right direction by now. But three main points: formation, corona and "KOT." That is what you should expect from me, because we agreed, when the cabinet became missionary, that we would remain mentally missionary on corona, both medically and economically, but also on the settlement of the terrible affair with the childcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u565	Then there is my final remark. The Prime Minister says it's nuanced. All things are nuanced as long as you're far enough away. But if you're in the middle of it, if it's you who had hoped to get €30,000 for Christmas before May 1st and you don't get it again, you're thinking, "What's the nuance? My reality is that I'm in trouble. They all feel sorry for me, but they don't take care of it." So to the Prime Minister and also to Mrs Van Huffelen: don't start the story with the nuance, start the story with the solution for today and tomorrow with €30,000 for all those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u566	I would like to ask Mrs Ploumen: give Van Huffelen a chance in a moment. I don't mean by "nuance" that we say "it's not that bad" or "people shouldn't complain." Not at all. I understand that this can be very intense for people. But what I see from it is the annotation and what I have followed over the past few weeks, where General Affairs is also well connected to it. Let's give her a chance to comment on the Trouw article in a moment. And then I do not use the term "nuance," but just outline the state of affairs: what is and is not right in her eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u567	I suggest that the Prime Minister completes his two blocks. Then we'll see if there are any questions and we'll do them at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u568	Yeah, wow. Let's see, where am I? The MPs. In fact, I should like to say a few words about this before there are any interruptions. That'd be nice. Here, when it comes to discussing MPs in the cabinet, I'd like to use the word "nuance." That can actually happen along four lines. The first is that the Chamber is the client of the cabinet. The Chamber, at least the coalition parties, naturally own the coalition agreement. They are, in this sense, the owners of the government programme whose implementation is carried out by the government. Sometimes we are also at eye level in the role of co-legislator. So you're in charge, and sometimes you're on the same level as co-legislators. But we can never look down on you. You can only look down on us in the role of controller and we stand on Augenhöhe when it comes to the role of co-legislator. A discussion about MPs in the cabinet is sometimes inevitable. I'm going to sketch it very precisely. This may be the case if the Chamber wants things from the Cabinet and there is a tension between speed and care, for example. Then it may be necessary to have further discussions with Members of Parliament on the proper balance. The second reason why I find it justifiable that Members of Parliament can be discussed in the Cabinet is because, for example, there can be a situation in which there is no majority in the Upper Chamber. The previous cabinet, or the outgoing cabinet, had only 75 coalition members in this Chamber. Especially when it comes to issues that are transcending elections, such as a pension agreement, a climate agreement or the nitrogen approach, where you look for broader acceptance because you want it to be stable over elections, it is sometimes inevitable that you talk in the cabinet about the political situation. Then it could also be about MPs. One last reason why this could be about MPs in the cabinet is because we are looking forward and looking back on parliamentary debates. You can also see this in the agenda which has been published. It's a team. Sometimes steam is blown off when someone has had a very intense debate in the Chamber. It happens sometimes. That emotion can come back to the Council of Ministers. But that's the most sensitive reason. I say quite honestly that I am not proud of everything I read back in those minutes, and certainly not of myself, in which I echo someone else's statement that as a member of the coalition you might be a bit more constructive than a member of the opposition. To be honest, I find it inappropriate of myself to echo what was said there. So it's nuanced. It can't be avoided that sometimes it's about it. I myself honestly believe that it will undoubtedly lead to less need to talk to the cabinet at all for one of these four reasons about individual Members of Parliament if, in the future, there would be more consensus in politics about the desirability of the primacy going back to the Council of Ministers on Friday instead of that being at the coalition meeting on Monday, and the primacy going back mirrorfully to the Second Chamber as an auditor, and so we are going from more monism to dualism and we are reducing the gap between Cabinet and Chamber, and perhaps completely removing it. Two things to conclude on this point, Mr President. First of all... Speaking in the cabinet about MPs, this can, of course, and will never, be allowed to restrict the free mandate of Members of Parliament, either under state law or in the context of the cabinet-kamer relationship. It was never the intention to shut up MPs. I do not believe that this is meant to be true, but I am not proud of everything I read back, certainly not of myself, as I said earlier, about the difference between coalition and opposition. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few loose questions. Why don't we go for a round of this first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u569	Maybe that's... how many questions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u570	About five. Those are loose questions that don't belong to any of the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u571	Then it does get awkward to interrupt. Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u572	On this point, which Members of Parliament are called. In itself, it's understandable that you talk about that occasionally. But what we see in those minutes is, at least, the picture that lives with my group. It is that the government says: 'Oh, what are many questions asked; that actually hinders us in coming to a solution.' My point is that those questions, by my colleague Pieter Omtzigt, by Renske Leijten, have put the problem on the agenda. Without these questions, it would have started much slower. There's our surprise. How is that possible? How can that image come into being like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u573	I get that. I mean... here's not a perfect answer, but I think there's a difference between the situation before June 2019 and after June 2019. If Leijten, Omtzigt and others, of DENK and the VVD, such as Neppérus and Azarkan, and journalists, hadn't been shaking the tree before June 2019, I'm not sure we would have seen how bad it was in June 2019. The pressure, the pressure, the pressure, the pressure... it worked. What I remember is that in the emotion in the cabinet... I don't speak it right. But in that emotion, in the sense of "it's such a big issue; we have to try to get ahead of that wave and now do the right thing to solve it for those parents"... Of course we saw it getting bigger and bigger. Of course, questions also came from the Chamber. You can also see it in that November 2019 motion, which asked: who knew when? Then we said: yes, all of that must be done, but we must also try to solve the problem now. I do not speak that well, but that was part of the atmosphere in the Council of Ministers, namely to catch your breath. Not because we were pathetic, not at all, but because we wanted to catch our breath so we could get in front of the wave, so we could solve a problem. That's what happened in that case. So I'm making a distinction. There's the ringing of the bell. That doesn't make any sense. Again, I am not looking very proudly at everything I read there either, but I think that is part of the honest statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u574	And what if the Prime Minister looks back afterwards? It's not for nothing that those questions were asked. The information was incomplete, so does the Van Dam Committee. Then how does he look back on what has been said, on the image of and perhaps the attitude towards the MPs who also felt: we have incomplete information and we are with parents who are really under a lot of pressure and in the shit? How does the Prime Minister look at that? Because also those MPs fought hard for it and so they felt constant opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u575	At that time, however, it is different in the cabinet per intervention. Again, that remark of my own I then judge as very negative, where I echo something someone else says. Some other things I find understandable. 'Cause at that point, the bell was ringing. We were trying to fix it. A lot of questions seemed to us at that time, again, I don't speak very well how we looked at them................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That had to be done; there is no doubt about that. But we had to, as we thought, at that moment also try to solve the problem and come for that wave. It is different from one intervention to another. I understand, of course, what Mrs Kuik is saying there, but I think that can still be weighed differently. Then we should walk past all the statements you see in those minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u576	Thank you. Then Mrs Ploumen, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u577	Yes, Mr President, speaking of 'roads' and 'weighting'. In the public hearing of the POK in December, I believe, no, earlier, in October...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u578	November.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u579	November, yeah. At that time, the Prime Minister gave a qualification for the way in which MPs were discussed in the Council of Ministers. That qualification was that it would be "background music." If I read those minutes myself now, I wonder what you should do to become a key point in such a Council of Ministers. If I hear the Prime Minister now when he reads this again, then "background music" just doesn't add up, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u580	No, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u581	The interrogation was under oath, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u582	Yeah, but it wasn't a factual remark, it was an appreciation. I understand that appreciation has led to question marks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u583	Yes. But you did know those minutes when you were sitting there. So you may have been in preparation for the interrogation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u584	Yes. I read the minutes, absolutely. But I was mainly looking at: intent, gross debt, harshness system, when did we see and do something until November 2019, and also the look-through afterwards. I have to tell you, in the interrogation, I was also a little bit ambushed by this part. It's not that I didn't see it, but it wasn't on my retina. So that remark, that qualification of "background music," I wouldn't repeat, indeed, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u585	Mrs Marijnissen, and then Mr Azarkan and Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u586	I hear the Prime Minister comes back to his own comment about an echo, as only Mark Rutte can put it. But he does not come back to whatever we read in the Minutes, namely that it was precisely the Prime Minister who 'does not show a great deal of understanding for spokesmen of coalition groups who try to profile themselves in the media'. That is literally what it says, and in this case it is about party mate Mrs Lodders...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u587	Hm!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u588	Who, along with Omtzigt, Leijten and Azarkan, has been constantly fighting to get that information out of the table. The Prime Minister won't come back to that. I understand from that that remark is just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u589	I wouldn't have minded if I hadn't made that remark, to be honest. No, I'm not proud of that either, but I came back to the point of the distinction between coalition and opposition chamber members because Mrs Hermans specifically asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u590	Yeah, okay. But since the Prime Minister did not mention it, at least there is the impression that this is clearly a point that can be accepted. I hope, for Mrs Lodder's sake, that the Prime Minister has now picked up the phone and apologized. Anyway, that's up to him. What makes this whole story so unbelievable is that talking about MPs... We're all just people, so once it's blowing off steam, I think everybody's thinking, yeah, cuffs, go ahead. But it happens in conjunction with withholding information. And not only with withholding information, but also in combination with worrying about the wrong things. Because the Prime Minister said at the beginning of his story that the Council of Ministers would not have reacted lightly at all when it became clear, little by little, what was going on. Those minutes show a very different picture. On the contrary, the Minutes show that on 7 June the main issue was the question of precedent. We have Snel, who says: we must try to limit the precedent to other cases as much as possible. We have Koolmee, who says: any precedent can be broader than just Tax and UWV, and should be avoided as much as possible. So it's not just about complaining about critical MPs, but also about the combination with you just worrying about "there are more people in trouble; that shouldn't come out above all." That, multiplied by "don't give the information to the Chamber," makes it so bad. That's why people are so angry about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u591	I would like to give two more defensive reactions to that. The first goes back to the previous point. In my opinion, the cabinet has not tried to cover things up for political reasons. We have just discussed it in the context of the November 2019 motion, but that is more important. And that precedent is really different. But of that we agreed that the Minister for Social Affairs will reply in this way. It's really different. There was genuinely meant to be something very explainable, but he's going to do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u592	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u593	That's how the Prime Minister moves everything away. Won't knowingly share the right information...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u594	That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u595	... before that, I was standing right here. At that time, I had a whole conversation with the Prime Minister in which he refused to answer the question of principle whether he felt that what one of his State Secretary's decisions should be shared with the Chamber. That has been the case in this case. He won't answer that. On the other point, of precedent, he also does not want to answer and refers to Koolmees. It is precisely that combination of things, I say to the Prime Minister, which makes it so terribly wrong what has happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u596	The precedent has become a very big point, but it is paradoxically something else exactly. The compensation scheme is so structured in the Netherlands that you can only be compensated for something that the government has done wrong in the five previous years. We wanted to ensure that all duped parents could be compensated, including the parents who had been in trouble before 2014. That is what the question of precedent is about. There we tried sincerely to do something good, but I would like to ask Wouter Koolmees to explain it in this way; he is much more involved in this technique. It is therefore not intended to limit damage to the government, but also to ensure that we were able to reach the group from before 2014. That's really different. It's gonna be a misunderstanding. We've made a division of roles on the team for today, and Wouter Koolmees has graduated there. You can ask him about this further, but the essence of it is that we also wanted to involve the people from before 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u597	I want to be honest with you that the Prime Minister is going to finish, we have five more directors. So a very short question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u598	I'm definitely gonna do my best. My question to the Prime Minister is: where is this hostile attitude towards the MPs who are fighting for their parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u599	I honestly didn't feel it in the cabinet. Well, we know there's a problem, and we have to try to solve it. Questions also came from the Chamber that were more about how things turned out in the past. I'm not saying that was necessarily a good emotion, but it came from the thought that we should first try to get the compensation right. There was not a basic hostile attitude, but a moment of steam blowing off after intense debates. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u600	I think it goes much further, because I read in the Minutes that three Members of Parliament, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Lodders and Mrs Leijten, are seen as fighting against Mr Snel. That's what it says. They're fighting him. But again about the enemy's thinking, are they then seen as the enemies of Quick? Why should they fight against Mr Snel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u601	That is a quote from Koolmees, who is here and I think it is nice that he can explain that himself. Otherwise, I better ask all five to go home, then I'll do it all by myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u602	Indeed, you do not need very much time for formation, so you can answer this question quietly. But Mr President, the Prime Minister nods on everything, agrees and agrees with it. I want to know about him. He could also say, "Dear Koolmeen, you're a little less of a minister than I am, and maybe it's not so good to talk like this." Perhaps the Prime Minister could have said as a kind of coach, as primus inter pares, that those MPs may be a bit fierce, that they are doing their best, but that they are not necessarily trying to fight Mr Snel quickly. But that's what it says, that's what it says. They're seen as some kind of enemy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u603	There is a context in which I think it is decent that Wouter Koolmees will explain it. He is here, and in our division of roles we take care of all kinds of sub-particles in terms of content, but we would also like to respond to the questions about our own quotes as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u604	Then there is another matter, Mr President. That's about November 2019. At some point, Mr Leijten, Omtzigt and I are asking for official support to carry out an analysis of criminal offences. Not even to come to prosecution. On 19 May, a year later, the tax authorities of their own reported criminal offences, so it wouldn't have been so crazy at all. Well, we, the colleagues, were flogged back a little on that weekend. We were called by the President of the Chamber but also by the chairman of the committee. Mr Omtzigt was in a bit of a mess at the time. He was part of the coalition and he was more attracted to it. I see Mr Leijten nodding. I was like, "Should we help Pieter a little bit by moving something back?" Is that something in the Council of Ministers or something that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u605	I didn't prepare that. You did not ask the question in the first term. So I don't have that in front of me. I should check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u606	Perhaps the Prime Minister could come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u607	Yes, in second term, I can go into that. That's the point of the felonies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u608	It is good that the Prime Minister states here that he would rather not have read back his own words from the Minutes and that he might not have echoed Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen's words. In short, what's written there doesn't deserve a beauty prize. I think the whole Chamber shares that view. But the Prime Minister, as President of the Council of Ministers, also has a special role, not only in his own words and his input there, but also in leading the meeting and addressing fellow ministers when things happen that cannot be accepted. My question is: what will he learn from these minutes and from this debate when it comes to the role of the President of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u609	It could certainly have been sharper on points, but I insist that not everything that is said about Members of Parliament would not be acceptable. A number of comments that are made there, and which may be discussed further in the debate with colleagues of mine in the Cabinet, could be accepted, because they are related to exactly the point I have just made. The Chamber of Auditors asks us to do things and then you have to talk about how fast or how thorough that should be, speed versus care, but also about looking for majorities. Of course, there's a lot of contact. I have talked to Pieter Omtzigt on this subject about Europe and about corona regularly. Those are always very pleasant conversations, sometimes on my initiative and sometimes on his initiative. That goes for a lot of MPs. There's a lot of contact between MPs and ministers. Where that becomes too much of a tuning in advance to make the parliamentary debate less effective, I would like to mention just the intermediate world between an autonomous cabinet and an autonomous Chamber of Commerce. We should try to get rid of that intermediate world in the near future. That also has to do with how we're going to do the formation. I hope to be able to play a role there someday. Or not, we'll see. I hope that at least those who are going to play a part in this will look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u610	May I summarize it like this? Of course, the Minister for General Affairs has a role to play in helping to promote support in the Chamber, building bridges between coalition and opposition, or if it is necessary to obtain a majority in this or another Chamber. However, the Minister for General Affairs, the Prime Minister, also has the responsibility of calling on directors who are deeply in their own files occasionally if they make the role of the Chamber too small or want to inform the Chamber less extensively than should actually be from the interpretation now given to Rule 68. Is that also a lesson that Mr Rutte draws for himself and for any future Presidents of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u611	Then I have to answer very precisely along three lines. When it comes to Article 68, I think that is natural. I just do not think that we have deliberately tried not to inform in this dossier. Case in point is of course November 2019. This is without prejudice to the point of reflection. Two is that I do not think that everything that can be seen in the Minutes about Members of Parliament is wrong. I do believe that there have been all kinds of comments that are very explanatory in such a cabinet. Thirdly, I agree with Mr Jetten that there is, of course, a special responsibility for the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u612	A little more precise, though, because the Prime Minister is making very careful statements. If the Minister of IenW talks about two members of the coalition who are out of line and the Prime Minister supports those words and now says that it was chosen what was unfortunate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u613	Not chosen unluckily, it was wrong, I think of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u614	Yeah, but you can do that a little bit more. That was wrong, but it is in the light of the whole debate we are having together. That's just not right at all. That's where you went far beyond your bounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u615	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u616	...and also the Minister. You can talk about yourself. How did you, as leader of this team, address that minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u617	It's a year and a half later now. I am not addressing her now to a statement made a year and a half ago. At that point, I should have said that I didn't think it was right, instead of echoing that statement from her, because why would you distinguish between coalition and opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u618	Why not a year and a half later, I'd say. What if you came to the understanding that something like this couldn't happen? It doesn't have to be a reprimand. You can talk to someone and say: this is not how it is going in Parliament; I should have been sharper on it myself, but this is not possible. This is unacceptable talk, isn't it? The point is that every minister on the Council of Ministers understands that. If this becomes clear now, shouldn't you still talk to someone about it? It's not a statute of limitations, is it? Well, it's been a year and a half, so I won't come back to it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u619	That must of course also be seen in this context. I don't think that's real.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u620	I'd like to ask the Minister... there are a few more...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u621	To conclude on this point, Mr President. This is an attitude which the Prime Minister takes all the time in this debate. He's been moving around for a long time, but when the point comes to shove, he doesn't really go through with it and doesn't actually meet the Chamber. I'm not asking you to nail the minister to a disgrace somewhere in a square. I ask you to accept your responsibility as President of the Council of Ministers. Even though it was a year and a half ago, when a minister was talking about coalition members in this way... Mrs Hermans was much clearer about it: unacceptable. I also want the Prime Minister to convey that. I want everyone on this ministerial team to know what they can and can't do. Not because someone is following this debate, but because the leader of the team is acting standard. That's what it's about: act normal when you're crossing the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u622	At the time I echo that statement, I don't quite have the authority to be the one to put on big pants on that particular statement, I guess. I agree with Klaver that it is inappropriate, but I also draw attention to the fact that you should continue to look at this one and a half years later in a context. That statement is still not good, but I am not going to do it a year and a half later. I'm telling you the truth. I don't think I should hold a shit story against Klaver. I agree with a lot of points he makes today. So it turns out. On this point, I agree that this statement was not appropriate, but I do not agree with the reference made by a colleague. That's okay, too, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u623	Anything's fine. If you disagree with me, you disagree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u624	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u625	But I find it problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u626	Well, that's too bad. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u627	I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u628	Wait a minute, 'cause I wasn't finished. He's interrupting me. The Prime Minister says: that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u629	I'm sorry we don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u630	That's too bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u631	You disagree, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u632	But, Mr. Chairman, this isn't about me or Mark Rutte at all. This is about the culture here. This is about parents who are now watching and thinking: the MPs who stood up for me have been put away on the Council of Ministers. It's about them. This isn't about you. This isn't about me. And then it's perfectly normal to say on any team that this couldn't be done. Then you have a good talk about it with each other. To say: that is not up to me one and a half years later. Sorry, those are excuses! You can still talk to someone about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u633	It's not an excuse, and I'll explain why I'm not doing it. I believe that after a year and a half we still have to consider that context. The context is a cabinet that has to try to pursue policies with minimal majorities. I don't think the verdict is appropriate. I agree with Klaver. But I do place him in the context of what is going on there, namely that in an extremely complex situation we must try to achieve majorities. I just don't agree with him. I'm not going to correct Cora van Nieuwenhuizen on that anymore. That's my honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u634	What kind of weird word game is this? It's inappropriate, but in the context of that time, was it okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u635	But you also have to consider the context if you're going to reprimand someone a year and a half later. We don't agree on that. I do agree with you that the verdict was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u636	You disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u637	But I'll leave that to myself. I'll keep that to myself. I'm not going to reprimand anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u638	Mr. Klaver, you're not getting out at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u639	This is pretty exemplary for what's happening here. That's why I'm counting on this. It's not weird to talk to anyone about this. And it would be good, also for confidence in Parliament, to take such a step. I've already made four or five attempts today to see if we can approach each other. That's why the pitch goes up a little. I understand that it's not absolutely right or absolutely wrong. So far, the Prime Minister has gone a long way on all these points, but just as I think we're coming together, he's taking a turn that I think is: where are we going? I'm trying to find a ground where you can move on with each other, as a parliament and as a government. I regret that the Prime Minister is not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u640	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u641	Can I just say here exactly why I don't? Because I am not going to speak in a plenary debate about what I am going to say to a colleague. I just don't think that's fair. A chef doesn't do that. I am not going to discuss this in a debate in the Chamber. If that is necessary, if I were to agree with Mr Klaver, I would do so in private. But I am not going to talk about it in a debate in the Chamber. I just don't think that's appropriate. That's my integrity. I'm sorry, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u642	I would like to ask two more questions from Mrs Hermans and Mrs Van der Plas. After that, I'd like to suspend the meeting. I think the Prime Minister has answered a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u643	I've got a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u644	If there are any questions about it, they will come at a later date. There are five other rulers who also have to answer, so I really want to finish. Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At this point, however, I should like to say a few words. I can still go along with the Prime Minister when he says: a reprimanded one and a half years later, about something I also supported, I do not think appropriate, I am not going to do that. I can imagine, however, that we have read this in the Minutes too, and that the Council of Ministers always looks back on debates that took place during that week. I can imagine that this debate will also be on the agenda for next Friday, which will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u646	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u647	Then I would appreciate, also bearing in mind my own input in the first term, that it is discussed in a reflective sense that coalition groups cannot have a less strong position than opposition groups, and that all groups, whether they belong to the opposition or to the coalition, decide how they engage in a debate and how they intend to conduct it. In that form, the VVD group would greatly appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u648	Yeah, I can support that, too. I also understand what Mr Klaver is saying, but I find it complicated. He's a colleague of mine in the cabinet. I echoed that pronunciation. I don't think that statement is wise. I don't think it's wise to repeat that statement. But what I find complicated is that in a plenary debate in the Chamber, a fellow minister should be kicked in the ears. I'm just not gonna do that. I don't think that's fair. I agree with Mrs Hermans that you can do this in the cabinet in a reflective sense. But Mr. Klaver went on and I just don't want to do that. I don't think that's right. That's a matter of manners. Sorry. So I agree with him in substance, but I disagree with that form. I can live with Mrs Hermans' words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u649	I would like to respond to that. I'll be brief. It is to the credit of the Prime Minister that he is protecting colleagues, but in the meantime there are tens of thousands of parents who have not been protected by this cabinet. Personally, then, I think, I would be less sorry to say something about that to a colleague, because in any case, in my opinion, you will still be doing a little justice to those people who are sitting at home. I want to read a quote from Roger Derikx from today's newspaper: "The cabinet knew for years that we were being destroyed and it did nothing." That's what this is about. That's what's bad. If that leads you to say something about that to a minister and public square, then I think: what are we talking about anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u650	I think Mrs van der Plas is making a point. That is, of course, the incredible tragedy of this whole subject which we are debating today and which we discussed with the old Chamber in January. That is that tens of thousands of people have entered into a terrible situation. When the cabinet found that out in full, we tried to manage it properly. That's extremely complex. We see to this day how complex it is. We are doing everything we can, with a lot of incredibly fine people in Finance and other ministries helping, but it is incredibly large and large. Tens of thousands of people got the "frauder" sticker, which they're not. A lot of people might think that is the worst, whereas in 98% of cases they are not. I agree with Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u651	Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: if we are going to suspend and have a bite to eat, whether or not with a cup of coffee or a glass of fresh, or perhaps someone would like a glass of wine...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u652	Oooh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u653	I don't know what the mores is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u654	I'll see you at 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u655	Okay, fine. Anyway, I'd like to hand over to the Prime Minister: think about it for a moment, in a moment during the suspension. Talk about it with the people concerned, who are also here in the Chamber. Perhaps you can say something about that after the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u656	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I agreed with Hermans that this lends itself to reflection in the cabinet. I also agree with Klaver's content. I just do not go so far as to say something here about what I am going to say or not to a fellow minister, because I do not think that is appropriate. But we also agree on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u657	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his detailed reply. Maybe it's good to split those last questions among the rest of the team. I think that's convenient, given the time. It's almost 7:30. There's gonna be five more rulers. If there are any questions about it, we may have time for it in the second term, or one of the other rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u658	It wasn't me!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u659	I shall suspend the sitting until 8.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u660	I have agreed with the Prime Minister that he will answer the few questions that were still there in the second term. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations on Article 68 of the Constitution. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u661	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Exactly on that point, Article 68, today, as the Prime Minister has just announced, has been a great deal. Among other things, Mrs Kuik asked for a reflection on that point. I'd like to do that. The provision of information to Parliament is governed by Article 68 of the Constitution: the obligation to provide information. Ministers and Secretary of State shall inform the Chamber orally or in writing of the information requested by one or more members, unless the provision is contrary to the interests of the State. This is often one of the pillars of the parliamentary democratic system. This article of the Constitution has, in the debate on child care payments in recent years, really had a lot of attention and was in the spotlight in the debates in this House on this subject. I would like to start by saying that this has had real consequences. There have been changes in the working methods with regard to Article 68. For example, in response to the unsolicited opinion of the Council of State last summer, the Cabinet announced that it would now honour a targeted request for specific documents, unless it is contrary to the interests of the State, even if that request comes from an individual MP. Something that was discussed before. So we've changed that. In the cabinet response following the publication of the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee, we have put a scoop on that. We are going to take care of this now and I will come back to things that lie more in the future that we are starting to actively disclose underlying departmental notes to documents. They are sent to Parliament and are therefore used in the decision-making process by rulers. Also new is the policy line that we no longer want to use personal policy concepts as a ground for refusal, namely the right to change "in conflict with the interests of the State." This applies both to the underlying notes to be actively disclosed and to specific documents requested by the Chamber or a Member of Parliament. Finally, the decision list of the Council of Ministers has recently been published in this row. We will also work with the annotations of the discussed at the Council of Ministers. I would like to emphasise that this is the practice and that it has therefore changed in relation to the practice there was. I will come back to the specific questions that were particularly relevant to the changes, but I would like to go back to the history of Article 68, which has been a great deal of discussion. The debate on Rule 68 is not really new at all. But perhaps Mr Wilders would like to interrupt first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u662	I have a factual question and not so much a political one. The Minister rightly states that it is also stated in Article 68 of the Treaty that the Chamber should be given all information, unless it is contrary to the interests of the State. Now Professor Voermans refers in an interview in the newspaper to what Minister De Vries said in 2002, namely that under that exception only military secrets, price sensitive information and really something that can't be otherwise. What I would like to know is what the criteria are for the exception "in conflict with the interests of the State." We are going to broaden it, which sounds very nice, but what is it worth if that limitation stays and we all don't know what is covered by that restriction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u663	We explained this in detail in the letter sent by the cabinet in response to the POK's report. This is an exhaustive list of exceptions, which are mainly based on, for example, company confidentiality, price sensitive information, security aspects, e.g. the safety of the Netherlands in the international context, and international negotiations. But it no longer sees "personal policy concepts" on the ground. Of course, that's a big difference from what it was. So there is an opportunity to appeal to the interest of the State. The list can be found in the letter of January. And that land is therefore more limited than this was. Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd go a little deeper back in history anyway. Because the fact that there is a debate on Article 68 is, in fact, of all times, I would almost say. We owe Article 68 to Thorbecke. That intelligence obligation was simply introduced with the Constitution of Thorbecke in 1848. The special thing is that we thank MP Thorbecke for this article, and that at the same time it was Minister Thorbecke who for the first time came into conflict with the Chamber about its interpretation, in 1848. So that only indicates that you can discuss it. I will explain it very briefly; at least I can see Van der Staaij taking an interest in this issue, and so can the Prime Minister. Thorbecke took the view that it was really not intended for the Chamber to be able to ask for information on its reasons for not proposing certain mayors for reappointment. So he had introduced that duty of intelligence, and at the same time, when the Chamber asked him for certain information, he did not consider the article to be relevant. So there was already a discussion about it. The only thing I really want to say is that a constitution goes along with what the Chamber, the Cabinet and the Council of State interpret what is in the Constitution. So the Constitution must be applied by the bodies involved. It must be explained and seen in the state-law practice that arises in the interplay that exists. So what interpretation do you give to what it says? The actors I mentioned, the States General, the Cabinet and the Council of State, are very relevant in this respect. Our handling of this duty of intelligence and the reflections given in debates and, above all, in this house are incredibly important. In this light, in 2002 the government attempted to incorporate the state-law practice, which had been developing for 150 years, into a single letter, a summary letter, with a very long text. He also gave practical handles, like: how do you deal with them? For example, the letter was also full of examples, to indicate that you have to weigh on your own again. Following Foreign Affairs Ministers have always referred back to the 2002 letter in new letters. So there was a letter from 2016, from my predecessor Plasterk, and there was a letter from this cabinet from 2019, when Raymond Knops replaced me as Minister of the Interior. In those two letters it has always been said that the 2002 interpretation on the application of that article was followed, i.e. both in 2016 and 2019. So, in November 2019, it was not at all the intention of the cabinet to abandon that interpretation of Klaas de Vries, the cabinet in 2002. It was not the intention of the cabinet to explain it more restrictively. There has been a whole debate about it, but that was not the intention of that letter. What was true, and that is a bit of the red line from 2002 to 2016 to 2019, is that pieces that see at internal reflection should not become part of the public debate. It also states that, although documents could be provided, they could be provided confidentially or, for example, partially lacquered. That is actually what you see in 2002 and in 2016: personal policy views are not in principle made public and internal documents are not sent to the Chamber in public. So you can see that in those three letters. In 2019, specific attention will be given to whether internal administrative documents should be provided to the Court. In that letter, contrary to the 2002 letter and actually different from the 2016 letter, a little less attention, a little less words, is devoted to the interpretation of Article 68 of the Constitution. I think that part of the discussion that arose afterwards comes from giving less context in that letter. For example, reference is made in footnotes to the previous letters. That could have been more explicit in the letter. Perhaps that could have been explained a little better and given some more context. That letter really only went into that exception. This could give the impression that it was only for this reason that the cabinet could do so, but that is not the case. At that time, the letter of 2002 was fully up to date with regard to the cabinet. We have therefore followed that interpretation. That was an interpretation which the cabinet could assume was common, but it turned out not to be. It's been discussed. I think that's okay, too. It's okay to have a difference of opinion about that. At that time, four professors were asked to give their views on this. Their view was that it differed from that point of view. There was a staff note made for the Chamber. He once again shared the analysis made by the cabinet, namely that the 2019 line was in line with the previous letters. If such a difference of opinion arises, it is, of course, also important in our parliamentary system that you try to get out of it. I think this is exactly what happened, because there was an AO and an VAO and there were motions. There was also an opinion from the Council of State. That was supposed to be unsolicited advice. As a result of all of this, I actually started with it too. With this way of working, the parliament and the cabinet are trying to approach each other. I think that the new lines, as I outlined them at the beginning, are better suited to what the Chamber is asking. Perhaps they also fit in better with the debate that is now taking place on the administrative culture, on power and counterpower. That is good, because that is how parliamentary democracy should work. They are therefore changes to the way in which we operate, and I hope that we have also shown in the cabinet that we can adapt and that we also listen to what the Chamber is like. Mr. Chairman. That was a reaction to Mrs Kuik, but I think it was also a bit broader, because it was part of the debate today on Article 68 and the developments in that regard. Then there were some questions that saw on the announced extensions that we are implementing. Among other things, Mr Van der Staaij asked for this. Segers had a few comments on that. I mentioned a few, but there are actually more. I'm just gonna walk by them for a second. On the agenda and the decision list of the Council of Ministers, I have said that we are already working on the new way. Specific documents at the request of a single Member of Parliament, which is also the policy line since September last year. A few Members made a comment about the so-called ukaze-Kok. I welcome these questions and comments, because then I can also clear up a misunderstanding. The so-called ukaze-Kok consisted of indications, which had existed for a long time, concerning external contacts of officials. If you google on that now, you will see: "Deprecated. December 2020." So that ukaze-kok, as far as it was the original, doesn't exist anymore. It's been replaced. That was done, among other things, because the Chamber was paying attention to it, but also because we felt that this should be done. It has been replaced by a much more modern way of dealing with contacts between MPs and civil servants. As a result, officials have much more room for contact with MPs. This is happening within the limits of ministerial responsibility, though. I think this is important, too. All this will make the provision of information to the Chamber better and easier. So there is still a clue, because civil servants have to do their job safely. They need to know within what limits they can do that, but there is much more space than before. And the ukaze-kok, it no longer exists. For example, we have also talked about how to fill out technical briefings, but I think we need to talk about that further. This offer was also made by the various departments when this Chamber was elected and the new committees were set up. Suggestions have been made as to which technical briefings could be provided by officials proactively from the departments. It is, of course, up to the Chamber to decide for itself how it intends to use it. We're working on the active disclosure of underlying notes right now. These form the basis for decision-making. You must imagine that this is a very different and new way of working for the departments. But we announced it. We also want to make a start on 1 July. This therefore applies to the underlying documents and to the fact that they no longer want to provide personal policy ideas. I think, but I and my colleagues in the cabinet, that it is very important that officials still know how to do their work safely, because they must of course continue to be very critical of us. But there's a lot of attention from the administration to make sure that that's possible. We would also very much like to talk to your Chamber about this, so that it runs smoothly. That's a hell of a job, but we're working on it. And, of course, I would also like to inform your Chamber as soon as possible about how we can do that after 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u664	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u665	That ukaze-kok is, of course, an important one. I am very pleased with this answer, because that was, of course, one of the reasons why it was decided not to provide that information. So that ukaze-Kok changed in December 2020. I read that it has become less strict. Of course, it is important that something is arranged, but how much less strict is it now and are you happy with that? Do you not think that it should not be strict at all and that there should simply be contact between MPs and civil servants? When I became Foreign Trade spokesperson, I was very pleased with Mrs Kaag, who organized a few days in which I could talk to those officials. That's incredibly useful. I therefore hope that the standard procedure will be that we can talk to civil servants unlimited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u666	Maybe I should clear up a misunderstanding. It is not the case that the information that was not provided because of "personal policy views" was related to the ukaze-Kok. The non-departure had to do with the interpretation of Article 68. The ukaze-kok, which is indeed no longer there, has caused a certain spasm, I think. There was an image in your Chamber that there should be no contact with officials at all. That was not the case, because technical, factual information can of course always be provided. And the same with the civil servants. It seemed like civil servants should never be in contact with MPs, and that is not good. That is why I think: the only way to say that it has to be different is to say that that oekaze simply doesn't exist anymore. But releasing the whole thing is, I think, also unwise. I think it is necessary for civil servants to have a framework within which they can do their job, so that they know that what they are doing falls within the ministerial responsibility, and that, should a question ever arise, the govern ment in question says 'that's fine and that's what I stand for in the Chamber'. After all, officials cannot defend themselves; that is what the rulers must do for them. That's what the new clues are looking at. That leaves a great deal of room, and that certainly leaves the space that Mr Van Haga is now drawing up, which Mrs Kaag has apparently already provided in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u667	Yeah, I'm tasting a certain resistance... or well, it's not resistance, but restraint to let the officials talk to MPs unlimited. The MPs need unlimited access, right? Of course, I understand that the Minister is ultimately responsible, but if this is done in good consultation and it is known and there are no strange things happening, then there is no need for restraint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u668	No, but Mr Van Haga should not taste any restraint from me either. The only thing I'm calling into question is the word "unlimited." In fact, I think that creates a lack of clarity in the other direction. The executive cannot fulfil the ministerial responsibility if there is no idea at all of the contacts between officials and members of parliament. But again, the message to the officials is correct: feel free to be in close contact with MPs within that ministerial responsibility, to provide factual and technical information and to ensure that MPs simply get the information they need. So that is a completely different approach and that does not fit in with any restraint, but I think that is a good framework. Again, for the protection of civil servants as well. And it is, of course, about sharing information and not about doing politics, because that is what we do here, in this Chamber, between Cabinet and Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u669	Thank you, that's a nice answer. I have one final question, namely the responsibility of top officials in particular. I understand that not every official can be called to account, but I find it a little strange that a top official, who is really very closely involved in political work, is not responsible in any way. Do you agree with me that this should be looked at? Personally, I find it strange that an official can do strange things or do things he regrets later and then a minister has to take all the blame for them. Eventually you could also say: here are really very gross, sometimes even criminal, mistakes made or done things that are really serious culpable. Then it must be possible to give that official a little more responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u670	If officials make that kind of serious mistakes, of course there will be consequences. Only in the department this is done under the responsibility of the executive and the administration. They could also be senior officials. Of course there are consequences. Only, in this Chamber, we are responsible. The members of the cabinet bear the ministerial responsibility, but that does not mean that there are no consequences for officials. It only means that this must be done in the department's secrecy, because officials cannot defend themselves here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u671	Yeah, I get that. The ministerial responsibility is clear to me. But it is strange that certain information is not sent to the Chamber to keep officials, perhaps top officials, out of the wind. I think it might be wise at that point to broaden that a little bit so that we can get more information and the ministerial responsibility is still maintained, but so that the system suddenly starts to work, which has not worked now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u672	I have the feeling that Mr Van Haga is now zooming in on the case that has played in the supplementing affair. I can imagine that very well, but I think the reasoning was actually a different one back then. The reasoning was that, of course, we also wanted to know how that went. The ADR was also asked by the Prime Minister to explain this, so I'm just talking to him to do some very specific research on that point. This could, of course, have had consequences after that, including for civil servants. Only the rulers wanted to find out. That, I think, is also part of the care you want to exercise as a ruler. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate that the Chamber must be able to count on it and the Chamber can also count on it to receive from the Cabinet the information it needs in order to be able to judge every policy area and department under our responsibility. I don't think that's gonna get in the way of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u673	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u674	No, I'm not. Thank you. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u675	Good. I shall now give the floor to Mr Azarkan and then to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u676	The minutes contain a number of reflections on the scope of information within the Cabinet. I also read in part whether or not this is within the scope of an internal policy concept. It is even said: it is the question of whether that holds. So it's also weighed and a little bit looked at: can we get away with it? It is also said a number of times: if we coordinate this with each other, then we will have a moment of agreement with the group chairmen of the coalition parties. My question to Mrs Ollongren is: is there not some kind of inequality between the information position of the opposition parties and that of the coalition parties? Are they gonna be informed otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u677	Moreover, I think it is a very important point that if one Member of Parliament asks for information, then you will give the information to all Members of Parliament. That is an important starting point for all rulers, I think. When you are still in the stage of preparing certain decisions, for example in the implementation of a coalition agreement, a coalition agreement, it may of course be that there is consultation with the spokesmen of the parties concerned. That may have something to do with... That has certainly been the case during this period. The Prime Minister also mentioned a number of examples of this. In the case of the Climate Agreement, for example, there has, of course, been a lot of consultation with the coalition spokesmen. In fact, I myself have had discussions with not only coalition spokesmen, but also a number of opposition spokesmen, in order to gain support and support for, for example, the subject of housing and a housing fund. There is such consultation, but it cannot be that certain information that the whole Chamber should have is provided only to a limited part of the Chamber. I agree with Mr Azarkan on this point: 1 Member of Parliament means 150 Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u678	Then how does the Minister know that he didn't? In other words, can the Minister rule out any kind of inequality? When you talk to the group chairmen or spokesmen of the coalition and not to the opposition, information is exchanged. I had no idea. I had the impression that Mr Omtzigt sometimes had more information, or that he was simply asking smarter questions; it could be both. How do we ensure that we do not create inequality? Shouldn't we stop blabbing and bumping and laying in advance in the week and taking it with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u679	I think that is part of the whole debate and you should think about how to do it differently and better in the future. I think the Prime Minister has just said something about this. In this past cabinet period, with four rather different parties and a coalition agreement that had to be implemented, it was indeed very common to check once in a while whether the spokesmen from the political groups had the impression that what you did was indeed exactly what they intended to do with the coalition agreement. Of course, you can organize this in a different way, but the border has always been, at least I can say that for my own portfolio, but as I see it, colleagues have always said that you can consult and seek support, but that informing the Chamber or at the same time must be done for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u680	Mr. Azarkan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u681	I do not think that the Minister can rule out the fact that this happens, in the sense that colleagues from the coalition groups, of course, will be told 'you can start asking questions, but in a week I will come up with a report' or 'information is on the way, so this is still coming' and that it will not be shared with all Members in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u682	I can outline the general principle and that is that we should consider the Chamber as a whole and that it is not intended that certain Members of Parliament should have an information origin on others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u683	Mr Segers and then Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u684	It was interesting in many respects to read the minutes of the Council of Ministers, including politically. There was one political reflex with the Minister of the Interior that I would like to ask a question about. This was about incidents in the implementation organisations, where the Minister for the Interior said: we suffer from them, because in the end you are questioned about all kinds of incidents and then it is better to move them at a greater distance from the cabinet, at a greater distance from politics. I actually thought that was a remarkable, amazing reflex. Because you'd say that if there's any problems with the execution, we've seen how people can be ground up, you need to get it closer to you and make sure it's solved. Where did that reflex come from to place it at a greater distance, want to place it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u685	I don't think that was a reflection of: we should do that. I think my sigh was about you not wanting to bump from incident to incident. That's frustrating and it won't solve anything. My sigh was about wanting you to solve it more structurally. Implementation is complicated. It is often about large organisations with many people and with great responsibilities for other people. At that time, I did say something like that perhaps you should look at other countries, where they put it more at a distance with a clear mandate and a clear mandate. I thought it would be worth looking at. Maybe you should organize it better, so you could avoid incident-driven policies. I do not think that much has been done with this suggestion, but that is what I said there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u686	I'm not sure it's a sensible suggestion either. At first, the cabinet thought it was going to be 300 cases at the IRS. There are now 30,000 cases and there are even 35,000 applications for compensation. So it was a tip of the iceberg. It was much bigger. Then it's a weird reflex to say "I'll close my eyes" or "I won't see it or it'll come at a greater distance, because I'll have less trouble with it"? If we don't know even now whether UWV is going terribly wrong, at DUO or elsewhere, then it is important to say that we need to sit much closer, that we need to know much better that we really do what those citizens are entitled to and that we really serve them with good execution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u687	My comment did not necessarily only refer to the surcharges or to the Tax Office. We then had a discussion that went a little bit wider, about implementation in general. Of course, there is much more execution. There are also different choices in that. It may be an executive department of a department or a Zbo. There are, of course, different variants for this in the Netherlands. My only point was: can we learn from how they organized it in other countries? Koolmees has just whispered to me that nothing has been done with that remark, so Mr Segers can rest assured in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u688	I would say: hopefully the other way around, so we can get a better view of what is happening and feel more responsible for what goes wrong with any implementation organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u689	Yes, I understand that very well. Mr Koolmees is about to comment on that. But again, it wasn't about me having it remotely, you just let it happen that it's not going so well. No, I just wanted things to get better and I wasn't convinced that going from incident to incident led to a solution. That was my sigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u690	I was just thinking about the interrupting debate that the Minister had just had with Mr Wilders about the importance of the State and how you apply that ground of refusal. The Minister mentioned a list of grounds, but I also read in the letter sent by the cabinet in response to the investigation report: "The cabinet would like to examine, in consultation with the Chamber, how advice from the Chamber on these situations could be provided to a committee or independent body." How am I supposed to see that list and this particular point in the letter relative to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u691	I referred to the list in the letter. I also believe that this is not exhaustive. This too must be put in place and completed. I'd like to talk to that government commissioner later. That is also very much about how we get this information system back in place, because that is actually the basis of everything. Of course, the Chamber can only be well informed if we ourselves are well informed by the fact that the information system is in order. In the past, and this has also been a debate, there has been some question as to whether there could be some sort of independent body that will also check whether what the cabinet makes available to the Chamber meets the criteria. This is complicated in our parliamentary system, where ultimately the Chamber is the one who must be able to judge it in full independence. So you can't actually designate a third authority for that. So we can appoint a government commissioner who oversees getting the information system in order, have it and keep it in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u692	Thank you. This certainly clarifies it. Then I may have one supplementary question in the light of that information. The same letter also states that the Secretaries-General are coming up with a plan of action for this. Does that plan of action, the role of that government commissioner and how do you ultimately organise that review in a good way, all of them together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u693	Oh, yeah. I would also like to say a few things about this, because more questions have been asked about it. But that has to do with everything. Mr. Chairman. I have already said that we are now working very hard to be able to take that first step by 1 July, as the Chamber may expect us to do. That is what we have announced. At the same time, of course, we also consider it important to know whether what we are going to do meets the expectations of the Chamber. So I imagine the Chamber would like to talk to the outgoing cabinet about that, too. But that is what we are working on now under the leadership of the sg's, who work together in a very good way. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mr Segers who saw at the official summit, namely that it should not only be made up of the same people, of the same breeding pond, if I may interpret his words freely. I think that is a very important point, because we are actually trying in many ways to improve diversity at the top. This is also about diversity in knowledge and experience. Then it can be very relevant whether people actually have experience in the implementation, so whether they have worked in an executive service. It may also be about knowledge of major ICT projects. That can also be very important in the government. I also think it is important that we also look at the municipalities and the provinces in the government, i.e. people who have experience in the co-governments. You do, of course, look at what qualities, knowledge and experience you need from a person. You're also looking at the team that's there. If there is already someone who has ample performance experience, then you may need someone with other experience. But I fully agree with Mr Segers that we should look at people in that width and not always fish out of the same pond. The ABD's policy is that in future recruitment and selection we really try to pay more attention to it. There are already examples in the top of the state service where this has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u694	Well, here's the thing. This would really be a break with at least the recent past, because the ABD has indeed been a............................................................................................................................................................. Now it's more like "How am I supposed to say that nicely?" (b) to become managers; (c) to become managers; (d) to That's what you need, but you also really need knowledge of things. Especially now, at the time of the pandemic, we have seen that it is crucial that there is real public health knowledge at the top of VWS. That's where my sigh came from about people who really know what practice means. But does this really mean a break with what at least has been common so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u695	Well, a "fracture." I would call it more of a development. Mr Segers is very keen on it. I don't quite agree with his analysis. I think that with the departments in the top management positions, the sg's and the dg's, there are generally people who are certainly not just managers. I think we can all agree that that's no use to you as a ruler, and that's no use to the department either. Of course, there must also be management, but a department is about content, about policy, about implementation. This certainly requires management skills, but much more than that. So what I'm saying is that we should focus on that mix. If you have a department with a lot of execution, with large implementation organisations, and the whole management would consist of people who have never done anything in the execution, then I think that mix is out of order. That's actually the assignment the ABD has now. On the initiative of the Chamber, we also had a major investigation of the ABD. I've informed the Chamber about that, too. I would call it a change of course; not a break but a change of course. The lesson of the past is that we have been very careful about this. There are also examples in departments, for example at the Ministry of Finance, and it is therefore open to people from outside. It has to be, if you're following this line of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u696	Very briefly. Can we in one way or another get an update, a state of affairs after that investigation and how this change of course is now taking shape and how it is actually being implemented in ministries? Because I agree that we need this diversity, including generalists, but we also really need people with knowledge. If we can get an update on that, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u697	I suggest that I take a look at the latest state of affairs that I have sent to the Chamber and that I send an update following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u698	Very nice. There is an interruption by Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u699	I would like to return briefly to the difference in information position between the coalition and the opposition. I understand very well: you're in the coalition and you have appointments; that's a very thin line. I would like to cite a concrete example of where things sometimes go wrong. Following the Tax Plan there was talk in the coalition about the BIK. That BIK came to the House of Representatives at the very last minute. There was a huge lack of information for the opposition at the time. That was a pretty controversial tax. There are all kinds of questions to ask about usefulness and necessity. I myself think that is an example that I think there really was an inequality in information position. It was also impossible to catch up with the opposition. In a very long process of legal treatment it doesn't matter very much, then that technical briefing comes later. But this kind of last-minute business... How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u700	Then I think you are talking about the introduction of the BIK and not about the decision that was taken afterwards. I understand that, actually. I think Mr Klaver also understands how this has happened at such a time. You're in tough budget discussions. In a coalition context, you want to get out of it with each other and then this can be such a result. That's how it worked. That's what the discussion is about: how are you going to do that in the future if you want to have a more dualist system? Then you still have that kind of discussion, but possibly only in the bosom of the cabinet and not in contact with political groups. But that is the way in which we have worked in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u701	How a subsequent cabinet does this will have to discuss with each other the parties participating in a subsequent cabinet. It is, however, relevant for access to official information. I believe that this should not depend on participation in a coalition, but rather on a broader framework. In such a short time, the opposition will also have to have that information. We are lagging behind as an opposition when it comes to being able to carry out our controlling task properly. I would therefore like to say that this requires more than mere coalition agreements. This is really about access to the information that is present in the departments. There is an inequality there and it is not enough to decide whether to do this only in the bosom of the cabinet, with coalition parties or also slightly wider. This is really about the information deficit. I'll ask the Minister to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u702	Of course. I'm always willing to do that. You should then see where the Chamber feels obstructed in such a situation in carrying out the controlling task. I assume the information has just been complete, for everyone. But in the experience of Mr Klaver it came for some at a later time than for others. But the monitoring task was, of course, carried out later in the debate on the budget and in the run-up to it. If the information system has failed, we need to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u703	You know that information in this business is everything. If you have an information origin, especially in a short period of time, you simply benefit from it. Sometimes the time frame within which you have to react as a room is so short, you don't catch up anymore. It doesn't matter with a lot of legislative proposals, because it takes you two years. You're gonna get the right information position once in a while. In cases where there is urgency, it clamps, because then there is usually thunder in the coalition. The coalition will come closer together. Something comes out of that and then the opposition is lagging behind. I see a minister laughing because it goes wrong in the execution, because the Chamber is no longer being listened to. This is precisely where it needs to be better organised. We should not leave it to politicians who say 'we're really going to do it differently', because once we get pressure on it, we are often much weaker than we would like to admit. I'd like to shape this one way or another. Everyone must have ample time to take such information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u704	I can imagine that, too. Then you would indeed have to think about what form that should take. This is partly the case with the Chamber itself, but a cabinet can certainly contribute to this. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions; not much more. Mrs Kuik and Mrs Hermans asked about the Commissioner responsible for information services. It's important. We've already started a 15-minute maker. That is not the final form. But that's someone who's gonna get a job delineation and take into account the arrival of a new advisory board, the advisory board on publicity and information management, and a number of regular responsibilities of the CIO Empire, the Public Information and Heritage Inspectorate and the national general archivist. A question has also been asked about the State Commission on the Rule of Law. Quite a coincidence, I would actually have a discussion today with Mr Dekker, the Minister for Legal Protection, to talk about the preparations of the state committee. We've postponed that, but we'll catch up in the short term. We are, of course, outgoing, but we want to try to make all the preparations and ensure that this state committee can start as soon as possible after the summer if the Chamber so wishes. Then the strengthening of the rule of law. Mr Segers mentioned the constitutional review. He also mentioned the marginal test in administrative law. These are, of course, all important points. Strengthening the rule of law was also the result of the POK report. I have already mentioned the state committee working on a number of these points, for example with this marginal review. We have already had a debate here on the constitutional review, which was one of the recommendations of the Remkes Committee. So that is a subject that comes back at regular intervals. It's not here right now, but we've seen the party programs at that point, I guess, so who knows. Mr. Chairman. Two very brief questions from Mr Dassen. He asked about the state of affairs of the Venice Commission, but that is a question that Mr Dassen should ask the President. On 25 February the previous President contacted the Venice Commission on this matter, but it was an appeal to the Chamber. And finally... no, Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions in my area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u705	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Finance, but first we will clean up very briefly. May I ask the Minister to answer through her other microphone? There is another question from Mrs Van der Plas. That's not your fault. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u706	Sorry about that. I wasn't paying attention. I have asked the entire cabinet just one question. That was: how do you feel about it? That wasn't a joke. I'm just really looking forward to that. I would like to ask whether all the rulers would also like to include this question in their answer, because I think it is relevant how they themselves look at this whole situation and how it goes at all. I would therefore like to have answered that question by Mrs Ollongren. In the flow of Mr Rutte's words, I did not know whether Mr Rutte answered the question either. But you don't have to now. You can do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u707	You have a second term. Fine. Thank you, Mrs van der Plas, you did indeed say that. I give the floor briefly to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u708	It's kind of a tricky question to answer like that. Mrs Van der Plas has asked and I have heard it. I would like to join the Prime Minister when it comes to everything that has to do with the supplementing affair, because I think that is what Mrs Van der Plas was mainly referring to. More generally, I have just tried to say that we are also gradually able to learn and look for the ways in which you can work together. I am glad that we have been able to make some adjustments to the information provided by the Chamber. I think they are an improvement, but time will tell whether it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u709	It wasn't just about the supplemental affair, it was about the whole thing. I also mentioned the democratic system in my speech and the desire to restrict the Chamber in how a debate should be conducted. So the question is in general: how does this cabinet itself feel about it? I don't know exactly what time I asked that question, but I think it was a couple of hours ago. It's not like I just put it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u710	It's in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u711	It's in a broad sense. You can say it's going badly, or it's going well, or it doesn't deserve a beauty prize; whatever. But it seems like a pretty simple question, which you could give a pretty simple answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u712	Then my answer would be that the past does not deserve a beauty prize and that the cabinet has resigned for that reason, but that it is very important to continue working on improvements. I'd love to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u713	Thank you. I call the Minister of Finance for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u714	Mr President, thank you. There were some questions to my address. I agree with what Minister Ollongren has just said in the direction of Mrs Van der Plas, but perhaps I should start with a few preliminary remarks which, I think, at least give some of the answer to the question she has put to all of us, including me. Many have rightly referred to the seriousness of the underlying affair. At the interrogation committee and also in your Chamber, I said earlier, and I would like to repeat this, that this is clearly the subject on which, in this cabinet period, the most wrong was, in particular, my ministership, with disastrous consequences for all the parents involved. I think it is absolutely right that the cabinet, and I personally, too, have drawn the most far-reaching political conclusion, and that is why we have resigned together. I'll say a few other things in a moment. Mrs Van der Plas also asked for a broader reflection, but I would also like to join with what the Minister of the Interior just said in the context of the more constitutional side about "what else?' and power and adversity. Mr. Chairman. Mr Jetten specifically asked me about the problem of information and how this has hindered the operation. He also asked for reflection. I think that is quite right. The POK's report has shown very strikingly that the information system and the provision of information were inadequate and that it did not cause the problem, but made it much worse. The cabinet has acknowledged that, and I have acknowledged that, and of course it has played in particular with me in the Ministry. I have also pointed this out to the interrogation committee, and I believe that in the debate here in the Chamber in January. I have also spoken at a time when Mr Jetten may remember this about my own experience in particular, not to say 'the frustration', with that information system, when I replaced the Secretary of State once. I think that was in April or May 2019, with oral questions from Mrs Leijten. At that time I found that again and then I realized again how this was regularly complicated for the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps a final part of the answer to Mr Jetten on reflection. 'Cause how'd that go before? In the ministerial minutes of 21 June, I also point out that the Secretary of State has been misguided a few times by the Tax Administration, that new information supplied has not always proved consistent and that it takes time and effort and is difficult to change things with a large organization such as the Tax Administration, where 30,000 people work. By the way, they work almost all of them, say 99% of the people, with great dedication to the public cause. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Hermans asked for a piece that I think was largely answered by the Prime Minister. Oh, Mrs Hermans has disappeared from the Chamber. Mrs Ollongren said something about it. That was about November 2019 and what should or should not have been more explicit in the letter of 22 November. I agree with her that you should have mentioned in that letter the two specific considerations on which the Prime Minister had just gone on in retrospect, as you would have liked to have said very much more explicitly afterwards. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm at the point of sensitizing. It has just been said by the others that it is understandable in itself that Members of Parliament are also being discussed in the Cabinet. I think that is inevitable in our system. The Chamber is an auditor on the one hand, but on the other hand it is a co-legislator on the other. It is also true that the parliamentary groups also own the coalition agreement and want to be actively involved in all kinds of policy-related matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u715	Let me see exactly what you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u716	I saw Mr. Wilders start making... He says it's about sensitizing. I wasn't done with that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u717	Maybe it's a good thing you finish this point. I think Mr Azarkan was just a little earlier than Mr Wilders. Then comes Mrs Simons and then Mrs Marijnissen. But finish your story first, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u718	However, it is important to highlight that in that quote I respond to the point that Minister Koolmees made earlier specifically about the implementation. That is also reflected in the Minutes. It is important that we realize that in the second quarter of 2019 it was often about implementation in the cabinet: about the big problems at the Tax Office, about UWV, about DUO and so on. My comment in the Council of Ministers is also about making it sensitive, about raising awareness of the possibilities, but also about the inability, in the implementation. "Speed versus care": that is not what it says, but that is always the dialogue. I would also like to mention the major problems with the provision of information. I just pointed that out to Mr Jetten. In my memory, Secretary of State Snel, especially in June and July, was truly aware that something was fundamentally wrong. He was aware of the seriousness of the situation, but he was really involved in the implementation and information management. Moreover, it is important to mark that fact that the Prime Minister has just done so, but I would like to repeat that this is only a small part of the discussion that has been going on about everything that has happened. This is about the piece that plays in the Council of Ministers, but of course there has been much broader talk about everything that was going on: with directors, at the Ministry, by the Secretary of State and by me. It is a part of a part of the discussion, but it is certainly not the full discussion. What I would also like to add is that I have done the opposite in many of those talks. I have also tried to make others aware, to make them sensitive, if you will, of Mr Omtzigt's point of substance, which is quite justified. That's what I did at the Ministry. That is what I have done in the cabinet, by the way. That was about the supplementing affair, but also wider about the problems at the Tax Office. I have also discussed this with colleagues in the cabinet on a regular basis. Mr. Chairman. Maybe a little bit so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u719	Mr Azarkan and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u720	This is, of course, a somewhat technocratic explanation. If I read it correctly, the two ministers Hugo de Jonge and Mr Hoekstra actually say to each other "we just need to talk to Omtzigt: sensitise." At what point wasn't he sensitive enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u721	Just pulling a few things apart. I have said here many times, but I would like to repeat that it has been thanks to the persistence of a number of Members of Parliament, Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten, that this whole affair has been rolling and that we are now standing where we are. This is not due to the cabinet; quite the contrary. We are very sorry, it is very unfortunate. What you get a look at in this discussion is that Minister Koolmees says a lot about the implementation. We used to talk about that in the cabinet. And that Secretary of State Snel was quickly aware of the seriousness of the situation and with his hands in his hair. There were sometimes documents that MPs asked for which they did not have on their desks, and it is about that execution. You can't change that from one moment to the next. That you are having a conversation about this and that you want to make others aware of it, I find that really justifiable. On the other hand, I think it is important to highlight this. I also spoke with the Secretary of State on Mr Omtzigt's substantive point. I have told the Ministry in detail and many times that something was probably thoroughly wrong. By the way, Snel has done so himself; especially since June. You can also catch that under awareness. I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u722	That there was a lot wrong with the IRS, we noticed here. We have seen it with the donation and inheritance tax and with the implementation of the surcharges. We got a body out of the closet almost every month. We were in this debate once with the Minister of Finance and then we got the report he had received two days before and put the Chamber on its back legs. There was a lot wrong. That also had to do with Mr Snel's predecessor, because Mr Wiebes had not left it in the best condition to say so. But back to Mr Omtzigt. I actually hear Mr Hoekstra say: Mr Omtzigt asked too many questions, asked too much information, gave too little time and asked for documents that might not have to be shared. So in three areas, he asked questions that the Minister needed to talk to him and get the sense into it: take it easy, give us some time, ask too much and dose it a little. Am I saying that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u723	No. I'd really like to stick to my own words just now. This is about raising awareness of what was the problem of the Secretary of State at the time. The Secretary of State has, since May, but certainly from June, he himself has called that in the debate his turnaround moment because of the fact that something was very wrong. Then he tries as well and as angry as that goes in such a large organization with everything that goes wrong in the execution, and with an information system that is not in order, to right the ship. I think it is logical, from my final responsibility of the department, that I should talk to the Secretary of State on the one hand and say: I think that Omtzigt does indeed have a very valid point. I would like to repeat that it is really up to Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan himself and two journalists that this all came to light. But I don't think it's the other way around that, at the moment that Snel has so many problems with the execution, you also need attention and understanding. To be honest, I think that's really justifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u724	So we're dealing with a 24-karat MP, one of the best MPs. We are dealing here with a very experienced Member of Parliament who has been in the Chamber for a long time. Nevertheless, it was necessary to share some sense and some other insights with him at that point and on those parts by both Hugo de Jonge and Mr. Hoekstra. Am I okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u725	Mr Azarkan can summarize it as he likes, but I think it is important to stick to my own words and I think I can count on his understanding. I think it is logical that, at the time when that is in the cabinet, I take the final responsibility as Minister of Finance when I see how my Secretary of State struggles with it. Also, bearing in mind the talks I had with the Secretary of State, please enter into the conversation with Mr Omtzigt, precisely because of the substantively valid point. The other way around, the moment you see that the struggle with the execution is going on with the information system, you should also discuss it. I gave to others in the cabinet what is going on in my view on the supplement dossier, but also much wider within the Tax Administration. I have also discussed with these and genes who are present here today, but also with others in the cabinet, that this was not a small matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u726	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u727	Yeah, finally. But the result was limited. What was the result you were not satisfied with? What was that limited result?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u728	Again, it's a hatch, it's part of the discussion that you see back there. There's a much broader discussion going on. The Minutes state that we have also tried to draw attention to this. However, I would like to mark it, and I think I can say that on behalf of De Jonge too, that no pressure has been exerted in any way, not by me, not by De Jonge and not by others, to take it all slowly. That is important to highlight, because that suggestion has also been woken up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u729	No, I asked what the result was. It says "with little result."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u730	And then there is something about the officials of the ministry. I think it makes sense for me to stand in front of them, because I am the Minister of Finance. It is about the officials at the Ministry and the implementation organisation that belongs to the Ministry. And yes, a number of things have gone terribly wrong. And yes, officials have made mistakes. But the majority of civil servants do their best every day for the public cause. So I'm going to stand for those officials on the Council of Ministers as well... I honestly think Mr Azarkan would be more angry if I hadn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u731	What a weird party the CDA is. First Mrs Kuik stood here with a technical answer and now the Minister with a total lack of empathy. Mr Omtzigt is a member of your group. That's one of your parties. Not from my party but from your party and from your group, Mrs Kuik. What I don't understand is that the Minister didn't start his term with apologies to Mr. Ommzigt. Then you can come up with all kinds of ifs and buts. Why didn't you start your contribution here in the House of Representatives with an apology to Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u732	I started repeating the apology to the parents. I said that this is why the cabinet was right to resign. I have tried to outline the context of what I have said and the reasons for it. I have also mentioned that I think what Mr Omtzig did on this dossier is phenomenal, first and foremost towards parents, but also wider for democracy. At the same time, I think it is justified that, just when you talk about who has what role, as Minister of Finance, with a Secretary of State who is struggling with that file, you explain on both sides and ask for awareness of the positions of the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u733	No answer to my question at all. Again. Why didn't you start as the second subject then apologize to Mr Omtzigt? In other words, are you going to apologize for Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u734	I just wanted to show you what I said and why. I have tried to explain why I said what I said, each of those specific parts of the Minutes. It's about the execution. I think it is right that I should draw attention to this. I tried to do that to Mr Omtzigt. I have tried to do that to others, by the way. Vice versa, I have tried to draw attention to the wider problem at the Tax Office among those who said: it will all be bad with these surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u735	This is unbelievable. This is a rehearsal, no matter what I ask. For the fourth time, will you excuse Mr Omtzigt? Then you'll probably come back with the same rehearsed answer. I think I'm still talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u736	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u737	I'm still talking. I can imagine Mr Omtzigt sitting at home watching. He thinks, "How's my own party?" What are they doing? Am I gonna get an apology or am I not gonna get an apology? It's possible. If you'd supported him a little more, if you'd had some more empathy for him, if you'd thought a little more, "Well, that Ommzigt might have a point," if you'd recorded it a little more for him, maybe it would have been better with him than now. And what did you do? Just the facts, despite all your fine words. Mr Koolmees says, according to the p-notes of 12 July, that the spokesmen of the political groups, Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Lodder, fight together with Mrs Leijten against Secretary of State Snel and that he is very displeased. Then there is Mr Wiersma, and the Prime Minister will say something. And then you say you'll join them. You agree with what Mr Koolmees said. Period. Then you'll talk about sensitizing again. You haven't been honest with me. In the debate on 1 April, through an interruption, I literally asked you whether you said anything in that sitting about "tempering," but that it could have been another word. You were there as a spokesperson and you replied: I do not recognize the word 'tempering'. Now it turns out that it was just a silly trick, because you didn't say "temperate," but you said "sensitising." That's exactly the same thing. So this Pieter Ommzigt, who you found a 24-karat MP and you say "our Pieter, huge appreciation for Pieter for all his hard work and effort," you actually just stabbed a knife in the back. You joined Koolmees, who said he was very displeased with what Ommigt did with Leijten and Lodders. You agreed with him. You simply said: I agree. And then you talked about sensitizing. I'm gonna ask you again. I don't need that apology. Again, Omtzigt is not of my party, but I do appreciate him as someone standing there, just like Mrs Leijten, not of my party either, and Mrs Lodders, certainly not of my party. I'm gonna ask you one more time. Are you prepared to apologize to Mr Omtzigt at home for what I just said? Or do you say, "Peter, look at it, I don't care what I said about you"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u738	Mr Wilders is making a lot of accusations and throwing them all at one heap. That's his right. I accept that he does not agree with the explanations and explanations I have just tried to give. But that is the explanation. And yes, I have an extraordinary appreciation for Pieter Ommzigt. I have said this on a regular basis, and I have said it on a regular basis. That's what I've been talking to him about. Even in the cabinet, even when there was discussion about this, a lot of these discussions do not take place in the Council of Ministers, as Mr Wilders also knows, I have stood up for him. I simply do not agree with Mr Wilders's reading. It's about the execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u739	Do you still apologize to Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u740	We can ask the same question five or six times, but then I'm going to refer to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u741	Okay, then I can conclude that Mr Hoekstra, leader of the CDA group, refuses to apologize to Mr Omtzigt, an important figure in his party who has received almost as many votes as Mr Hoekstra. Someone who is appreciated in the country for what he has done together with the colleagues I mentioned earlier to get the mess out of that supplemental affair. Those were people like Mr. Omtzigt and Mrs. Leijten. They did. They are capitalised and are not protected by their own party. That's the least you can expect, isn't it? The fact that someone from D66 is under attack is also not a good defence against it, is reprehensible, but understandable. But you are the leader of his party! You weren't at the time, but at least you were an important CDA politician in the cabinet. I do not read anywhere that Mr Hoekstra says: I am in favour of Mr Omtzigt; stop criticizing him. He doesn't say, "Maybe Mr. Omtzig is right; you shouldn't do that." You're gonna talk to Koolmies and then you're gonna yell at him yourself. You're not even man enough to apologize. You're not even man enough to tell Mr Omtzigt that you shouldn't have done that. "I shouldn't have done it; I should've stood up for you, I should've stood up for you." And don't come up with a story that you should be among the officials... It was your politician, from your party! And you dropped it. I ask you six times if you can apologize and you just fucking do it. Well, it says enough. It says more about you than about Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u742	Again, because I think it is important to distinguish between on the one hand what is going on on the file in a broad sense. I have asked, also within the Cabinet, for attention to be paid to Mr Omtzigt's point to the Secretary of State and to a number of those who are sitting here. I have also repeatedly said that it is primarily thanks to him that the whole dossier has been rolling. But on the other hand, I also think that I can draw attention to it when a secretary of state at my ministry is struggling with the implementation. That's what this is about. Those two things can go hand in hand. It would also be strange if I were sitting there just to defend the interests of the CDA, because that is not what I am sitting there for. I sit there as a servant of the Crown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u743	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Simons and then to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u744	I referred to something Mr Hoekstra said, because Mrs Ollongren had already said that. That was the statement: we were not always well informed either. I understand. It happens. My question is: what consequences has that had? You have talked a lot about protecting civil servants. What consequences has that had, in the first instance, for the processes? Was there any intervention on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u745	That actually means we're going to open the POK file. Of course, a lot has been discussed about what has happened since the end of April 2019 when the Council of State is dealing with it, I say by heart. Everything will then speed up for the Secretary of State in June-July. He then took a lot of steps, including setting up the Donner Committee and asking the ADR to carry out research. Then you can see that there is always movement from the cabinet. Afterwards, of course, you would have liked us to have done a great deal of what we did in that last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u746	Those processes are carried out by humans. Has the conclusion that you yourself were not properly informed also affected the officials? There is a great deal of talk about protecting civil servants, but I do not really hear about the consequences of everything that has happened for these people, who are ultimately the ones who have actually acted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u747	Sure. This has been discussed very intensely in the Ministry by the Secretary of State and by me, repeatedly. All kinds of things have also been set in motion by the previous Secretary of State in the field of culture. We have had endless debates on research, a very sensitive issue, and whether it should be looked at inside by detectives on matters such as racism and ethnic profiling. This has been looked at very seriously and has also been discussed very seriously with officials of all kinds with the top of the ministry, but also with the supplement department. But it may be complicated to serve all this now, because that has also been discussed extensively in the interviews. That's what the POK's report says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u748	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u749	Thank you. You don't have to serve a lot of things from me at all, but I would like to know, also on behalf of the parents: have people been fired?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u750	I find it complicated to discuss it here now. Then I'd like to go over the last stand with the Secretary of State first. I think it is good practice, as I have done in recent years, that the dialogue between the Chamber and the executives is about the functioning of the executives and the ministries. But what is or is not discussed in detail and with which officials, and what possible human consequences have things, is up to the ruler. Otherwise, we will have a meeting of this or that official here in the Chamber in a moment. I think that is a figure that we really should not have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u751	I'm sorry, but this is not an answer to my question. It was a yes/no question. I have often had the opportunity to ask questions in my life, and I know very well the difference between an open question and a closed one. Did people get fired? I do not need to know their name, I do not need to know their address, but it would be better for the parents who have read the minutes, in which the officials are not mentioned at all and in which there is no sign of repercussions. Some of these parents are systematically intimidated, some are also sexually intimidated. If I were those parents, I would like to know, since there seems to be little movement here, or at least a number of people are held responsible, it does not appear from the minutes of the Council of Ministers for what they are still experiencing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u752	Maybe I can do this with Mrs Simons' question. I just indicated that criminal investigations have been carried out. What I may have to add is that people have also been removed from certain functions. But I really want to have a word with the Secretary of State and then I or the Secretary of State can answer that question. Then we will also have to consider what is prudent, given the relationship we have as an employer. I shall come back to that in the second term, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u753	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen, then to Mrs Ouwehand and then to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u754	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the same question to Mr Hoekstra as I asked Mr Rutte, but Mr Rutte did not want to answer. I hope that Mr Hoekstra will do so. Does he think that if a Secretary of State, in this case a Secretary of State of his department, makes a decision, that decision should be notified to the Chamber? Or, as I understand from Mr Rutte, is that part of the internal deliberations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u755	I think Mrs Marijnissen just asked that question when it came to the enforcement action. With her permission, I would like to say a few things about that. I'm going to take a longer run now, because I got a whole bunch of paper when the Prime Minister just gave me this subject. What's this about? It's about the enforcement. Mr Snel also said a number of things about this in his question. It also contains a comprehensive analysis of enforcement and o/gs, set-up/greater debt. In short, as I understand it, because I did not receive these documents as Minister at the time, because they went exclusively to the Secretary of State, Mr Snel, on 11 June 2019, suspended the enforcement and settlement of current surcharges in CAF 11 in order to prevent these parents from getting into any further trouble. That's the first part, as I understand it. In the other CAF cases, the ADR investigated comparability at that time. Mrs Marijnissen referred to a note. I think the first note of September 4th, 2019. It lists numbers of parents who are currently in the picture in other CAF cases. The severity and numbers of parents who had coercive actions were not clear at the time. On the basis of that note, the Secretary of State decides not to suspend the ongoing recovery measures. Then the ball rolls on. He wants to wait for the ADR that does research. At that time, he decided not to take irreversible steps in the meantime, pending the opinions of Donner and the ADR, and not to allow any new measures to be taken. He then received a new note from the Tax Administration on 28 October, following the request of the Chamber, in particular from Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt. He finds that note too technical and asks clarifying questions. He also writes things like "chilling over my back." I think that's what he said in the interrogation. On 4 November 2019, he then undertakes, inter alia, in the legislative consultation, to pause ongoing wage settlements in other CAF cases. On 15 November, he announced his intention to reconsider the policy in the Chamber. In this context, he also sent the work instruction to the Lower House on 22 November. Let me be clear: every day that parents have had too long to deal with this is one day too much. It's terrible how many parents have been affected by that for too long. The last piece could perhaps be explained further by Secretary of State Van Huffelen, to the extent relevant to Mrs Marijnissen. The o/gs case will be widened in 2020. I mean, but I really have to leave that to her, that there is talk about compensation. That's, as I understand it now, how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u756	That is a very long answer, but it is not an answer to my reasonably clear question. Does Mr Hoekstra think it should be reported to the Chamber if his Secretary of State makes a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u757	What decision does Mrs Marijnissen mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u758	I think it is remarkable that the Ministers are unable to give a general answer to such a fairly clear and clear general question. In particular, I am referring to the document of 5 September, which has now been distributed, in which a number of things are quickly decided by Mr Snel. In August there is already a piece in which Mr Snel has been briefed on the fact that it would be between 8,000 and 10,000 parents. The Chamber did not hear that until about a year later, while Leijten and Omtzigt have been standing here time and time again and again asking that question. That information was well known to Mr Snel, but it was not shared with the Chamber. It also said that the Tax Administration itself had serious doubts about the implementation, and that it was all very harsh. But it also said: we continue anyway. Not with that limited group, with CAF 11, but with all the other thousands of parents, who have been destroyed all along. So my question is: does the Minister think that if his State Secretary takes a decision, for example this decision but also in general, that should be reported to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u759	In general, I don't think so. When I look at the number of decisions that government officials take on all kinds of dossiers one day, I generally think that not every decision should be shared with the Chamber. So if Mrs Marijnissen asks that question in general, I do not think that should be the case. Are there all kinds of decisions that you should share or should want to share with the Chamber? Yes, there are of course, because very often a decision precedes a letter of inquiry. There are all kinds of dossiers where we can also imagine that. On the note that Mrs Marijnissen has distributed, I think the date is 5 November 2019. I think this is the date on which the note was given. I believe that the note she distributed on 4 September 2019 has been distributed. As I understand it, the Secretary of State decided at that time to continue, to proceed, and not to take irreversible steps, pending Donner and the ADR, and not to adopt new seizure measures. On 28 October and then in November, he made up his mind. He says this has to be different. If I understand Mrs Marijnissen correctly, she asks me: do I think that the first decision should have been shared with the Chamber afterwards? This concerns the decision to proceed provisionally on the path taken pending the ADR and Donner. I can't get all these considerations back. I can only say in general that it is of course terrible that so many things have lasted so long and that you would have liked to have had a lot of that first information two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u760	The Minister pretends that the Secretary of State has once taken a decision, like: yes, we cannot begin to share all the decisions with the Chamber. But, of course, it's the other way around. The Chamber has been actively asking for this every time. Even then, the answer didn't come. In fact, the SP started a hotline exactly during that summer period, because it was always unclear how many people were involved. So now there's a piece that was already on Snel's desk in August, where it just said, "At least think of 8,000 to 10,000 people, and if possible much more. You know what? We're just gonna keep going with that whole big group. We're just gonna keep killing people, with home evictions, with paychecks, taking cars. That's what we're gonna do." That decision has been made. So it's not just a decision, like: so many decisions are made every day in a ministry, and this hasn't happened to be reported. No, it's been asked again and again. This decision is so profound for so many people. Surely there is no other way than that this has not been deliberately reported, because this would have very serious consequences? Of course, Mr Snel knew that at the same time. Mr. Hoekstra, you may have known, so that's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u761	Just for a second. In general, I have wanted to say that I do not think that any decision taken by any govern ment should always be shared with the Chamber. I would hope that Mrs Marijnissen and I could agree, because many decisions do not necessarily lend themselves to that either. There are also a lot of decisions that always come to the Chamber because they just follow a letter of inquiry. In my area, for example, these are decisions on investment or on all kinds of issues relating to state participation or public finances. If Mrs Marijnissen had asked me if it would not have been happier if the Chamber had known this earlier, because it could have been acted on earlier, I would like to agree with her. Only, I cannot reconstruct what Mr Snel's considerations were fast enough not to do so at the time. I'm really convinced he wanted to do that in full integrity. That's what you can see in the note: "The chills are running over my back." He indicated that immediate action should be taken. That's what he does. Only, unfortunately, we'll be a few weeks away. Then the question is, did I know about it? No, these aren't documents the minister gets, not even as cc's. I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u762	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u763	I myself find that somewhat unbelievable. So you have a secretary of state who apparently finds out that there is not a group of about 300 parents, but finds a note on his desk, which says: "Dear Quick, pay attention, this is going to be between 8,000 and 10,000 parents, and possibly more." It's not shared or anything. That will then be adopted for notification and that will only be with Snel. Personally, I find that very unbelievable. If Mr Hoekstra says he didn't know that, I have to take it from him. Mr Hoekstra goes on to say: I have no idea what Mr Snel's considerations were fast enough to go through with them. I do have an idea about that, because those considerations are just in that piece. That is where he is advised not to stop chasing and taking those people away, because of the risk of precedent, the loss of tax revenues, really, the loss of tax revenues, and the labor intensity in implementing them. That's what it says. Those were the reasons for all those people, knowing that there were thousands of them... This hasn't been shared with the Room. Leijten, Omtzigt and Azarkan were constantly asking about this. "No, we don't know." We did know, and we were just gonna keep killing those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u764	Again, of course, it's terrible what happened. This is another example of things that you would have wanted to have gone much earlier in a very different way. What I think I remember from Mr Snel's questioning at the POK was that he indicated there that the matter... that is, of course, very rude and wrong in that note, if tax collection had played a role. I sincerely believe that he did not play a role in the decision he made at the beginning of September to continue for the time being, not to take new seizure measures and also to wait for the ADR and Donner. Remember: Donner was expected to arrive shortly after the summer. That was postponed, postponed and postponed again. Then you think at the beginning of September: I'm going to wait a bit, but then it does take unpleasantly long. That is, of course, extremely unfortunate. What has happened there is terrible, and I can only draw a line once more. But my impression is that Snel really did this to his honour and conscience. At the time he sees it at the end of October, at the beginning of November, and describes it completely in such a note, with those words "the chills run over my back" or words of similar intent, he also shuts it down in the very short term. On the first point: Mrs Marijnissen says: 'I think it is very unbelievable, but I have to believe Mr Hoekstra'. Mr. Chairman. I have no other choice but to say that it is also stated in that note, which is simply a note sent to the Secretary of State. I didn't see that information. If Mrs. Marijnissen doesn't believe that, then it stops. I can't help it either. I just didn't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u765	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand and then Mr Klaver. Mrs. Marijnissen for a very short time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u766	There is a great deal to respond to, but I would like to make one point here, namely that Mr Hoekstra says: I cannot imagine that Mr Snel's consideration would be that it would have to do with that tax revenue. Of course, it was just known to the Tax Administration and also to the Ministry of Finance that you had the so-called HOTHOR group, which means: high award, high risk. This means that people with low incomes, that is, those who earn the least, will receive the most supplement accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u767	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u768	So if you're gonna deal with that group, you're gonna be able to make the most of it. There's the fastest way to get your target, because there were targets to pick up. If you take the most vulnerable group, the people with the lowest incomes, the hardest, you're the fastest to reach your target. That was the policy of the Tax Administration! To be honest, I find it not so credible that this would not be known, because this was just a policy. If you can even look at people in that way, if you just let such practices exist... The most vulnerable people who needed the supplement the hardest, the hardest: that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u769	Mrs Marijnissen is, of course, quite right about that. That is what Mr Snel has said on several occasions. That is, of course, also the drama that is unfolding before our eyes, which unfortunately has been going on for a long time, but which has been unfolding since June, July. After that, it just gets worse every time. My conviction, but that reflects what I have seen with the Secretary of State, especially from June, July, is that he is really aware that there is something fatally wrong with the system as we have it. Perhaps too little for that, and that certainly also applies to myself. Of course, we have a long time, and that's the terrible thing... In fact, very little has happened on this file throughout 2018. It's hardly about it. Neither is the Ministry. In the summer of 2019 he is really aware of it and he starts working with a special team at the Ministry. Then Mr Donner is asked, I believe in May or June. The ADR is in progress. It takes time and it lasts; it takes too long, and as a result the misery takes even longer. That's terrible. This has had major consequences, and this has, of course, contributed to the resignation of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u770	Mr Omtzigt then said, together with Mrs Leijten and Mrs Lodders, that we simply need a factual account. A motion adopted unanimously. My question is about the Minutes on this, because we have seen Secretary of State Snel say: no, I am not going to admit to that question of a facts story, and that Minister Grapperhaus said: 'I am not sure if you will get away with it, because it is contrary to the Constitution. But I would like to join Minister Hoekstra in thinking about a way in which the cabinet response to the Chamber can state that there is also a factual account in this." My question is: was the offer made by Mr Grapperhaus on 15 November agreed with Mr Hoekstra in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u771	No. I also believe that what Mr Grapperhaus is saying there is a difference between what I think he was trying to say yesterday and what Mrs Ouwehand is saying. But no, that's not something he and I agreed on beforehand, not at all. We didn't have any contact after that either. I think he's pointed out himself and tried to indicate what he meant and what he didn't mean. I think that was on television or radio yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u772	Okay. Does it happen more often in the Council of Ministers that someone says 'I'm making a proposal and he's going to help me', without your consent or having been asked in advance: will we come together and think along? 'Cause I thought it was a little weird that you'd...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u773	No, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u774	... Minister Grapperhaus hears saying "I offer to help with Hoekstra" and that Hoekstra has not been asked first whether Hoekstra wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u775	No, what Grapperhaus says there, and whatever he starts with, is quite defensible. He pointed out, on the contrary, that the full provision of information to the Chamber was of great importance, so that the Chamber could perform its supervisory function properly. He also pointed out that there was a motion asking for that information. At the same time, however, I think that this can also be read back in the report. However, you must be able to show all the facts at once without mentioning the names of officials. As I understand his comment, he has therefore offered to consider specifically how to do that, but then I'm going to paraphrase what he said yesterday in an interview and what I think he meant. I didn't see that interview, so it's gonna be ice skating on extremely slippery ice. I don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u776	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u777	I think that's a good idea! I don't know if it's ever gonna freeze again, given the climate crisis. We cannot ask Mr Grapperhaus whether he would like to explain what we are reading here in the Minutes, but we simply read that, after his earlier remarks, he is concerned about the non-delay of a fact story: are you going to get away with that? Then he says: we can co-operate with the Secretary of State, and Minister Hoekstra is going to help me do so, which was apparently unsolicited about a way to say that the cabinet response also contains a factual account. In plain Dutch this is: we let the Chamber believe that this is the fact story they have asked for. Minister Hoekstra was not asked in advance by Grapperhaus: do you think it is a good proposal that we and Snel are going to think quickly about how to do this? But did the Hoekstra then do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u778	No. That's what I just said. Grapperhaus suggested this, I believe that I did not look at it in detail in relative terms at the end of the Council of Ministers. We are not allowed to clap about the Council of Ministers from the school, but the President is also in some hurry. So there is not another hour reflected by everyone on every comment. So he says that and again, that is not attuned. I also believe that what he means there is really integrity and that he wants to think about how to do it properly, so that officials are not called by name. I don't know if he followed up on that, but at least I didn't, so not him and me together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u779	Thank you. Looking at the time, I would actually like to ask the Minister to continue his speech now, if that is all right with you. We still have a number of rulers. It goes from general to very detailed. I get that. It is an important debate, but that does not always mean that everything has to be very long. I would therefore ask the Minister to continue his speech, if you will allow it. If there are any more urgent questions after that, I'll give you some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u780	About the last big block I had, I have just given an answer to Mrs Marijnissen. I think I only have the tail of what Mrs Van der Plas asked. I think she is right to ask for reflection, but also for self-reflection of the cabinet and the members of the cabinet. Again, the cabinet and I have apologized several times for this disastrous affair. It is for the whole cabinet, but for me in particular, the biggest blemish on the blazing of this cabinet period. Furthermore, as we have just discussed, there is a lot to be learned about the provision of information. Mrs Hermans rightly referred to what was incomplete in the letter she asked for. I suspect there's a lot to say about how you wouldn't want to deal with a coalition meeting in the future and how you want to do things differently in the area of power and counterpower. There are still a lot of ideas and thoughts, partly expressed in the response of the cabinet to the POK, in the document which, I believe, went to the Chamber in January. In addition, there are many sensible ideas in my party, often under the heading of a new social contract, which deal with the role of citizen-government, but also with the administrative culture. However, given the fact that I am here as a member of the outgoing cabinet, I do not think that I should all appoint it now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u781	Thank you. We are going to clean up for a while and then I will give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u782	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are three points I would like to address. The first concerns my comments in the minutes of 12 July 2019. A number of people have asked for this. The second concerns a number of aspects of implementation. Mr Segers, Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Marijnissen in particular asked for this. Finally, the debate on precedent, which has also been called for. The first point concerns the minutes of 19 July 2019. I'd like to put a few things first before I come to that. The Lower House played an important role in identifying the problems of many parents with the childcare allowance. Your Chamber has rightly been close to the cabinet and has called for action. It has indeed emerged, addressed and taken up as a result of these questions to the cabinet. That is the merit of your Chamber. There is a great deal of emphasis on the role of the Chamber as an auditor of the cabinet and rightly so. This is also the role that has been important here in bringing out this great disgrace that has taken place in recent years for these parents, who have been in great trouble with this. I also say, like the Prime Minister and Minister Hoekstra, that the Chamber is also a co-legislator and client. The Second Chamber and the Cabinet are thus in a kind of permanent interaction as power and counterpower. That's part of our job, too. In my role as Minister, I have always sought the broadest possible support for my policy. I have often spoken with the political groups to form the coalition, but also very often with groups outside the coalition, for example when it comes to the pension agreement or the Corona support packages. Then you do make agreements with each other to get support in advance. Not always with Mr De Jong, but he is often a little more critical of my policy and that is allowed. I'm trying to get support in your Chamber for measures I want to take, for policies. Mr Jetten asked me: why did you say the things you said at the Council of Ministers on 12 July? Was it powerless, was it frustration, was it supposed to shut people up? I'd like to say something about that. Those minutes indeed show that I was frustrated at the time. This has to do with the debate of 4 July 2019. I thought Mrs Marijnissen referred to that as well. I had the feeling, after that debate on 4 July, in which the Secretary of State had indeed apologized, a number of compensation schemes had been announced and a number of policy changes on professional recovery had been announced, that we could finally work on solutions, solutions for those parents. That was after a month, which I experienced very intensively with the Secretary of State, in which we were really looking for ways of achieving such compensation. Just after that debate on 4 July, in the week after that debate, bad news suddenly came out again about the surcharge affair. That was a new disclosure at RTL News about another CAF case, CAF 16. My fear, but also the disappointment, was that this new revelation and also the reaction of Members of Parliament would lead to the solutions being withdrawn, that it would indeed be a kind of struggle. You can also see in the Minutes that I am actually saying: I am afraid that the solution will be further away. So that is really a frustration for me personally at that time and I needed to blow off steam in the Council of Ministers with my colleagues. I also think that that should be possible. 'Cause you're with each other, in confidence. Then you say, "This is what I think." That was my emotion at the time and you can read that in the minutes. That doesn't look good at all. I'll admit that immediately to Mr Jetten, but that's the emotion I have at the time. And that emotion is a little wider. You can read that in those minutes. I also had a debate with your Chamber on problems at the UWV that week. There are indeed a lot of problems from the years 2014 and 2015, due to cuts and due to a very large organisation. That was about the export of WW benefits. I have also had a lively debate with your Chamber on this. Actually, I was frustrated those months about how so many problems came to light in the implementation. We had talked about this a number of times in the cabinet, about how we really had to do something with it as a cabinet. We really need to invest in this, and we really need to get to work on it, otherwise we will continue to create problems for citizens here, but we will continue to pursue incidents. That was my frustration. That was my explanation. I have also said in those minutes that you can read that it is not about persons: it is not about Mrs Leijten, it is not about Mr Omtzigt, it is not about Mrs Lodders and it is not about Mr Wiersma. I also said: I also recognize it with MPs from other coalition parties, that you see some kind of reaction to reaction. And there was my frustration. It was, and I want to stress this, in no way my aim to oppose MPs. Nor was it in any way my aim to limit MPs in asking critical questions. Absolutely not. I have also been a member of your Chamber for seven and a half years. I also attach great importance to the role that you, as a Member of Parliament, can ask the cabinet any questions you wish to ask and that you also receive an answer. What was it about me? I was concerned that as a cabinet and chamber as co-legislator and as an executive and sponsor of the policy we could work together on solutions. My feeling at the time was that that was not the case. Again, does that look nice? No. Are those remarks of frustration? Yes. But they were meant, for my defense, for a small group of people with whom I worked very intensively and who meet every Friday in that room here at the Binnenhof. As I said, this took place in a broader context. It was indeed about the execution. In spring 2019, this implementation was under great pressure. We did indeed have problems with the Tax Office, at the UWV, at the CBR and for example at DUO. A lot of different government implementation organisations were lagging behind in ICT and in services to people. That's what I was worried about. You can also read in the minutes of 14 June that I am concerned about that. You can read that I actually want a kind of deltaplan approach in the Cabinet to get to work on this, because I fear that more of these things will emerge, where people are indeed at risk of falling between shore and ship due to problems in implementation. That's why we started work on Implementation in June 2019. A great deal has happened there. There is an approach, more customization is made possible, for example for professionals in the execution, so that they can also deliver customization to customers and to citizens, and implementation becomes more involved in policy making, so that we can adjust sooner if it goes wrong in the execution. A few questions have also been asked about this. Mr Klaver asked: if mistakes are made in implementation, can the government be honest about that? I very much agree with Mr Klaver. For example, I myself try to inform your Chamber twice a year about the state of execution of two large implementation organisations under my responsibility, UWV and SVB. Then I ask UWV and SVB to create bottlenecks that have emerged in the execution. I am therefore asking for signals that come into the helpdesk, so signals that come out in the execution where people actually get caught up. That way, I can also forward it to your room, so we can work together to solve those things. We have also announced in the cabinet's response to the POK-KOT a number of such initiatives, such as civil panels and the Garage, of the SVB's example, precisely in order to hear more quickly from citizens what they are up against in the implementation. Mrs Marijnissen, but also Mrs Ploumen and Mr Segers asked where else this is going. Are there any other examples in the implementation that people run into? I'm afraid so. There are potentially harsh aspects in the laws and regulations that we all want to get rid of. On 12 February this year, we informed the House of Representatives by letter about the follow-up to the Omtzigt motion, which was submitted to the debate on the POK-KOT, about an investigation into the harsh effects in the law and regulations of the Participation Act, the UWV and employee insurance and also the personal budget. In addition, at the moment, together with the municipalities, I am looking at hardnesses in the Participation Act. We've had some round tables. This is indeed the example of Mr Segers that someone is shopping for someone on welfare benefits who gets a fine for that. Is that what we want to do with each other? That's such an example. But the fraud law has also been dealt with very often here. How's it working out? That is the distinction between a deliberate fraud operation and a small mistake that you have made but which may have major consequences for, for example, that benefit. That's the kind of thing we're mapping out. Before the summer recess, we would like to inform your Chamber of its progress. We want to map out where those hardnesses, those hardnesses in the execution are currently based on the signals from UWV, municipalities, SVB, DUO and that kind of large government organizations. This is also a follow-up to the Ploumen/Jetten motion submitted to the POK-KOT. Madam President. The third point is that of the precedent. Mrs Marijnissen asked for that. You can also see this in the minutes of the Council of Ministers of, I believe, 7 June 2019, which I am indeed speaking about, partly on behalf of the Secretary of State Van Ark, who is not in the Council of Ministers at the time. I need to say a few things about that. The Secretary of State for Finance indicated in that Council of Ministers that he was looking for ways to accommodate the affected parents in the CAF 11. It was then really a search by the Secretary of State for compensation to be made very quickly. But that was incredibly complicated in terms of legislation and regulation, in terms of the definition of all kinds of complex legal definitions, which could not be covered by legislation either. You could see that later on in the Donner Committee, but that was also happening back then. For example, what was unclear was the following: the Prime Minister also said it in his first term. By default, you can go back five years in time for compensation. We cannot go back, because the laws and regulations are based on a maximum of five years ago. This also has to do with legal certainty. You have to be able to assume that at some point things are fixed. If you are then confronted with parents who have been duped in the period 2012-2014/2015, that means that you do not reach a group. We found that indigestible at the time. We were looking, especially the Secretary of State for Finance, for a way to shape that compensation. One important point is that we could not see all the consequences. Consequences such as: what does it mean for the execution; how many people are involved; how far back do we go; what does it mean for other supplements, for example for the rental allowance and for the care allowance? Can we see that and can we do that? We can announce something, but if we can't do it, we promise a dead sparrow. Those were all legitimate questions. A specific point that played the Whitsuntide weekend on that weekend after that Council of Ministers on 7 June was a way of compensating parents by means of a settlement agreement. There was a lot of criticism about that, even later. It was a way to see if we could give anything of compensation. But with a settlement agreement, the risk is that you don't have an objection and appeal. That too is such a dilemma. It may be possible for compensation and you can make up for it very quickly, but you do have all kinds of dilemmas in objection and appeal, which can cause people to get hurt. There are not only material effects, there is not only material damage from this affair, but there is also intangible damage. Later, at the Donner Committee, this was implemented and later Secretary of State Van Huffelen gave further details. But those were all dilemmas that weekend or actually that month. At the beginning of June, Secretary of State Snel quickly came out of the tunnel. We really spent a month looking for a solution to the problem of compensation. That is what I wanted to say, as an explanation of my comment on precedent. Mrs Marijnissen just referred to precedent in the o/gs memo, so the memo on intent/great debt. My comment is only about 7 June in the Council of Ministers. This was about the weekend in which a quick compensation scheme was sought for the parents from the CAF 11 case. Finally, Mr President. I'm rounding up. It has rightly been charged to the Cabinet that there has been too little and too late in the childcare allowance affair. The seriousness is too late and let me say it loudly. The cabinet has also simply failed. That is what I am charging myself for, because as a Minister for Social Affairs, I myself have a responsibility in the childcare allowance to raise this point more quickly. In response to your question, I have tried to outline my commitment and commitment, including during that period, and my considerations that have played a role in this. I also tried to outline a bit of my frustration that also played at the time, because we were all looking for a solution and felt that we were always chasing the facts. On June 4th we thought "we're coming for the wave; we're finally going to work on a solution" and a few days later that image was completely destroyed. Then I thought... Well, I'm not gonna say it, because that's really bad. But the minutes say what I thought about that moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u783	Thank you. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Kuik and then to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u784	The Minister states that the abuses are being looked at, including at the UWV and the IND. Is that research really done by an independent party? Because that's important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u785	Yes. In fact... I know that Mr Omtzigt has made contact with me on this matter. It's an external investigation into harsh effects. In carrying out the investigation, parties such as the National Ombudsman, the interest associations and the National Client Council are also involved, precisely in order to obtain the signals from practice and not to carry it out themselves. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u786	I think it is a very bad story from Mr Koolmees. He is actually standing here arguing that the Chamber should really explain that whole precedent differently. If I listen carefully to Mr Koolmees, it was mainly for good intentions and the cabinet wanted to do it mainly for the people. That is not clear from the actions, because precisely at that time the cabinet went on to take their lives away, but of course it is not clear from the Minutes either. I have listed all the statements made in the Minutes on limiting the precedent. It has produced three A4's of quotes and quotes from different rulers, including Minister Koolmees, who are particularly concerned about the fact that even more people are in trouble. So I really do not think that is credible at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u787	I am truly very sorry about that. I remember very well that Secretary of State Snel was, in his own words, 'out of the tunnel' at the beginning of June. During that period we did indeed look very hard for a way to compensate. Budgetary considerations have never played a role here. We never said this should be limited to so many parents. That has never played a role in our discussions. What has always played a role is what it means for the execution, for "the five years ago" and for the statements of, for example, the College of Appeal, where these kinds of statements are made. I can only tell you what I've been through, what my intention has been and how I've been in this discussion. My comment in the minutes on the precedent effect on 7 June was therefore about the point I just explained, namely a short-term solution which also involved all kinds of risks, both for implementation and for the possibilities for objection and appeal, and that we had to think about it. I think that's my responsibility, too. I also want to think that I can actually compensate if I want to, and that I don't promise dead sparrows. I am sorry that Mrs Marijnissen does not believe me. But that was my intention, my quest to make this work, along with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u788	Maybe I don't believe that because the cabinet hasn't shown it in anything. If only you had actively reported to the Chamber: we are aware that these problems are still in many other places and we are very concerned about whether we can do this properly in the implementation. That was never reported to the Chamber. We must now read in these minutes that you are very concerned, that we are dealing with several dossiers and that the House of Representatives will quickly point out that the House of Representatives will try to broaden the debate, for example by calling for attention to all matters, such as the rent allowance that is added. Apparently those problems play in so many more places, but that was never reported to the House of Representatives in that way. If only you'd done that, I'd like to say. If you were so concerned about that, wouldn't you have let the House of Representatives know?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u789	That's what I started my speech with. If you read back the report of the general consultation of 4 July 2019 that I happened to do this weekend, then you will see that the Secretary of State has indeed apologized, that he is looking for a solution and that the Donner Committee has started working on a compensation scheme. Of course, it was mainly the 300 parents of CAF 11. For example, the ADR was also asked where else this played and if there were any other examples and signals. There were a lot of signals, but the question was whether they were as bad as the CAF 11 issue. The Prime Minister said earlier in the debate, of course, that the scale of the problem has gradually become clearer and that it was indeed much wider. This had to do with the poor information system, which the Secretary of State is still dealing with. The only thing I can say about this discussion and my comment on precedent in the Council of Ministers is that it has never been a budgetary issue. There has never been a discussion about how we are going to ensure that the damage is as small as possible in budgetary terms. That has never been a consideration, not even for our colleagues in the cabinet, nor after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u790	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u791	Everything in the Minutes, of course, points out that the cabinet was extremely afraid that it would simply be politically affected. So many rulers have noticed so many times: "Everything is fun and well, but pay attention, we have to sweep this under the carpet. There must be no precedent. It must not become wider." I would also like to put a question to Mr Koolmees...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u792	I'd like to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u793	Let Mrs. Marijnissen finish her sentence for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u794	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u795	Is it okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u796	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u797	Mr Koolmees pretends that it all happened out of good intentions, or that the precedent would be something positive, that the cabinet also wanted to ensure that parents who were longer-term duped could also be helped. But let's look at the preparation that was there, the line of speech that was called in the jargon, for the Council of Ministers in October 2019. It says very clearly: "However, for Finance, it is not a real option to review all old cases. Adversely affecting legal certainty will have a national dimension." And a little further down the road: "I want to keep the door closed for old business, but that may be a political pressure, so that must be a commitment to the Council of Ministers." So fast. That doesn't have anything to do with you worrying about you getting it back for parents, does it? "Keep the door closed." "No old cases." How dare the Minister sell this here, while the minutes are packed with 'we must limit the precedent' and the Council of Ministers has never reported anything about it to the House of Representatives, when it has been repeatedly asked about it? Besides, we also have this: the door had to stay closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u798	Those are actually three reproaches about sweeping this problem under the carpet. In my opinion, that was really not the case. It's true we found out way too late. It is true that questions from Mrs Leijten, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Azarkan have raised the problem and that we have acted too late. That's right. That is why we have said in this debate: that has these consequences. That's the first thing. But it has never been deliberately said there: let us put this under the carpet, because we do not want to see this. That is simply not the case. I'm gonna distance myself from that, too. I want to highlight that, too. Secondly, there have been discussions about, for example, how far back do we go? Suppose you would like to review the surcharges until 2010, for example. Do we have the dates for that? Have you kept all that data? What does that mean for other household situations? There are so many execution questions, complex questions, but also theoretical consequences for other regulations, because we have a standard five-year term for the whole government. So you have to be able to argue why you're doing that for this scheme, for more than five years. These are all practical and legal considerations, which also have to do with legal certainty, which you have to think through and which you have to think about for a moment whether you can do it, but also whether you can do it. I think that's legitimate questions. But again, and that is my third point, budgetary considerations have never played a role. If parents had to be compensated, because they had been run over by the Tax Administration, then the starting point for the discussions in the Cabinet has always been to do so simply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u799	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u800	Mr Koolmees keeps saying the same thing: there were no budgetary reasons. That's not what I'm saying. I say there were political reasons. That is also on paper here: "I want to keep the door closed for old things, but it may give me political pressure." That was reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u801	Yeah, but I recognize that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u802	This is about people in trouble. This is about people you knew were in trouble, and they couldn't help themselves. Then the qualification "swipe under the carpet" is quite right, because if you had known, you would have raised it, you would have informed the Chamber, you would have done something about it. But it says here, "Keep the door shut." That's what the Cabinet did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u803	I'm not quite sure about this, so I have to improvise for a while, because it's not that deep either, but the CAF 11 went out of my head over the period 2012 to 2014. Yeah, I hear it's right here. That's still clear, let's just say. But there were indeed questions like "has this happened more often?" And "have more fallen?" And "until when does it go back?" Those are all consequences where you have to think: how far do you go back? I'm gonna repeat myself, Mr. Chairman. In my memory and in my view of the discussion we have had there, the most important point is that we have always been looking for a solution. That has taken too long, and once again, we are ashamed of it, and that is why we have resigned. But that has always been the intention of this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u804	Minister Koolmees says that it is also clear from the Minutes that he has responded as he has responded, because he thought to speak in a small circle and because he had to blow off a little steam, to say it in my own words. Whether we understand that or not, it has been more than that. In the Council of 14 June, you say, as the Minutes show, that you not only think that coalition groups should be co-responsible, but also that this overarching approach should be a reason for having a discussion with the coalition groups. In the Council of 12 July, you say, according to the p-notes, not only that you were displeased, as you have just admitted, and it is also stated in the Minutes, but that you also call for 'the members of the Council to address the relevant spokesmen of the same political house'. That goes a little further than what you just said, namely: 'angry', 'aborting steam'. Whatever you think. This is also saying twice: say friends, address MPs of your political color. I haven't heard about that yet, but I think it's from a different order than blowing off steam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u805	I should like to say quite frankly that I said the same thing, indeed, from the same point I mentioned: working together. I believe that the Chamber, as a co-legislator and as the owner of the government agreement, in which you jointly agree with the cabinet on laws and regulations and policies, has a responsibility to cooperate. That's right. At that time, I thought there was too much trouble. That also had to do with the fact that it was just before the summer recess, and with my own fatigue I think, because I also had the pension negotiations and other matters around that time. I felt that there was too much "chicken drive" in the debates within the coalition, on various subjects, which were almost all about implementation issues. I myself had problems with UWV, Secretary of State Snel with the Tax Office, Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen with the CBR and Mrs Van Engelshoven with DUO. I find that different from a political discussion. That is what I think will be said later in the minutes by the Prime Minister. You have a joint responsibility to ensure that the implementation is properly arranged. I am actually making this appeal: how can we ensure that we work together to advance these kinds of implementation issues in a good way, productive and solution-oriented? That's right. I'll make a call to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u806	You're really calling for something else. Then you'll have to read it again. The only thing I want to hear from you is whether you think this is impossible. Again, we're all tired once. I understand the emotions, but here it is really literal: it is desirable that the members of the council on spokesmen of the same political house should address this. That's something corrective, isn't it? When you say "talk to your colleague about that," it's not: we have to do something together. Then that means that there has been something unpleasant and that you have said: tell him that he should not do that anymore. That's out of line. You can blow off steam as a cabinet member and you can talk about it, but you can't say that you have to appeal to a MP for his behavior, because he has to change that. That's my only point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u807	I agree. I'll give you that right away. However, I do think that you should take on the joint responsibility for solving these problems together. But not on the behaviour and the freedom, the free mandate of a Member of Parliament to ask questions and to take a stand, Mr Wilders is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u808	Then the final point. My colleague Leon de Jong was very sad when you said you never approached him. Perhaps you'd like to make that up to me again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u809	A nice consideration, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u810	Thank you. We're gonna clean up now, and then we're gonna... the reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u811	Sorry. My final words were actually meant to give some kind of reflection, also for Mrs van der Plas, on how I look at this discussion.... I am now looking for words... that it is indeed a big problem and a disgrace for this period that many people have suffered. I think I've personally failed. I just said that. The cabinet has failed, but so have I personally. I look back on that sadly, let me put it this way. I hope, however, that I have been able to outline how I have engaged myself in this discussion in order to try to get it in the right direction. How's it going wider? It is a very broad question to give a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u812	I can imagine. It's hard, too. The Minister has just reflected on this matter, but Mrs Van der Plas' question is actually: how are things going in a broader sense? I don't know if the Minister wants to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u813	Could you perhaps mention one specific point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u814	Let me give you an example. It's April 29th now. I've been in the Chamber for a month, and as a member of a new party, I've been through a lot. Not in the sense that I'm pathetic right now, not at all. In that sense, how do you feel about it? There are a lot of things going on. I have just heard Mr Hoekstra give a good reflection. He literally said, "I see it as a stain on my blazon." That's what I'm talking about. For me, it goes a lot in generalities. I don't want to force anyone down on their knees and make them pay or anything. But you can say to this Chamber and certainly to Mr Omtzigt or to the people sitting at home: I'm sorry, we've done it all wrong and we don't know whether we're doing it all right. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u815	I think I said that. I told you the cabinet failed. That's what I'm charging myself for. That's what I said. We are still working and we have regular discussions with Mrs Van Huffelen to keep the recovery operation going and get it going. How are we doing with outstanding debts, because there are still new problems there every day. But I'm sure I'll charge myself. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u816	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand, one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u817	I was discussing with the Prime Minister whether there were political reasons behind it. He then referred me to Minister Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u818	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u819	For example, this part was in the minutes in which Secretary of State Snel warns that the Lower House will try to broaden the discussion, for example by calling attention to all matters, including non-CAF related cases where citizens have been unjustly disadvantaged by the Tax Administration. That reads as "Imagine that the Chamber also wants to talk about other people who have been unjustly disadvantaged by the Tax Office."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u820	I thought I had just answered that in response to Mrs Marijnissen's question. It was the same point about precedent and about the demarcation and what the intentions of the cabinet were there. I've just outlined my picture of that period in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u821	Yes. So we read this in the Minutes. Mrs Marijnissen also had a nice example, to keep the door closed. Mr Koolmees, like Mr Rutte, says: I insist that there have been no political reasons for some of our actions, so we reject that part of the Van Dam Committee's conclusion, which the whole Chamber has supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u822	The Prime Minister has responded extensively to this. I fully agree with him. That is what I said on television last Monday. In all these actions, even in November 2019 when deciding on the facts, but also in July 2019 when discussing the compensation, we have always been trying to find a solution. There have been no initiatives, ideas or activities to put things under the carpet or not to report out of fear of political consequences or a difficult debate in your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u823	Clear. I'd like to finish this part. You would like to draw another conclusion. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u824	Yes. I found it very strange when the Van Dam Committee came up with its report and the cabinet said: we embrace that, apart from the conclusion that there have been political reasons. Now that we read the minutes and the cabinet that continues to do so, that is inexplicable, so strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u825	I want Mrs. Ouwehand...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u826	It just says here: "The speaker warns that the House of Representatives will try to talk about people who have been wrongly disadvantaged by the Tax Administration."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u827	Let's not do the discussion again. We're suspending for a brief moment. Then you can clean up for a while. The Secretary of State for Finance is going to provide her input. In the meantime, I can state that there are different activities of the Finance Committee. There is a round table on 10 May with the duped parents, on 11 May there are actual questions, there will be a progress report and on 27 May there will be a committee debate. Why am I saying this? To keep you from asking too many detailed executive questions. In my opinion, questions have been asked to the Secretary of State about the state of play, including the Trouw article. I would like to limit it to that. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u828	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, many of you have talked about parents, about the importance of compensating parents and said that we must do everything we can to make up for what has been done to their parents. Everything I do and what the people at Increase Recovery do, we do for these parents. We work hard to do their justice and to give them as much confidence in the government as possible. The bar is high, because your room expects a lot from us and also the parents expect a lot from us. In the past year, I've had about 340 conversations, one-on-one, with the parents. I am well aware of the fact that these talks have been very intrusive, that there is a great deal that we can recover through the implementation of the recovery operation, but that there is also a lot that we can't make up for. For 15 years, parents have been troubled by the supplement scheme and its implementation. So it's incredibly important to highlight that we've been working very hard lately to compensate the parents. We have done so since December on the basis of the so-called Catshuis scheme: the fact that we want to transfer at least €30,000 to all parents eligible for compensation by 1 May in order to give them recognition and compensation. We later added a lot of things to that, for example around debts. I can tell you this tonight, and I say this in anticipation of tomorrow, because tomorrow we will also be working very hard on the fact that we have given a light test to all those who have reported to us before 15 February. It concerns more than 14,000 parents who are entitled to that €30,000. Tomorrow we will transfer money to a last group of parents, bringing the total number of payouts before 1 May to 11,000 parents. Anyone who is entitled to more will, of course, get even more in the near future. There are also people who will be paid later. This is partly due to the mistake we made last week and on which we sent a letter to your Chamber. We have also informed the parents about this and, of course, we apologize deeply. Those parents are still being tested. A large proportion of them are eligible for compensation and, to the extent that they are eligible, we will pay them as soon as possible. That'll be on May 12th. They, too, will receive a letter from us by tomorrow at the latest, stating that they are eligible for compensation. Some of them we called today, yesterday and in the last few days. There is also a large group of parents who have registered, but for which we currently see no indication to pay them €30,000. This concerns, for example, parents who do not appear to be parents because they do not have children. That doesn't mean that they can't be duped, because we know that people are also hurt by the rent or care allowance. In the Chamber, we have already discussed this issue, the compensation arrangements that we want to make for them, and I have indicated that I would like to send them to the Chamber this summer. They may also be people who have not applied for childcare allowances, for example because their partner has done so. That's why some people have double reported to us. They may also be people who are not eligible for compensation, because they may have had to repay money once, but this was legitimate. If they had more income than they estimate in advance, or if they have taken fewer hours of childcare, they will have to pay back at the end of the year. That is, of course, very unfortunate, because for some parents it was quite a big amount, but it is no reason to compensate for what went wrong with the childcare allowance. So everyone gets a letter and a message from us. We will continue to work, of course, even after 1 May. We keep calling people, because we haven't been able to reach everyone, despite the fact that we've called many parents more often, sent texts, and of course those letters. We continue to do so, not least for parents who have checked in after 15 February. We already have about 10,000 parents who have checked in with us since 15 February. For the victims, the public debts have been cleared. We're also working on a solution for their private debts. For the parents in debt restructuring, in a Wsnp or an Msnp journey we have already found a solution. I've already sent you a letter on that. We pay off all their debts. As a result, these parents can also receive their amount before 1 May. Besides, they're out of debt. So not only do they have a compensation amount, but they are actually out of debt. They don't have to live on a small amount a week. Meanwhile, municipalities and the VNG are also working very hard to help parents on all kinds of other fronts. They call and contact the parents to ask if they need help in other areas. This may be in the area of living or working, in the area of debt, or in the area of care. Luckily, parents take advantage of that, too. About a third of the parents who have approached the municipalities so far want this help. It's being offered. Furthermore, parents can avail themselves of the free legal assistance we have established. By the way, this is not about lawyers that we choose for them, but who they can choose for themselves. We're still working on a scheme for children, ex-partners, and those who suffer from the other fees. I just mentioned it. We'll talk about that later. Today, people at Increases are still working very hard to continue the full assessment alongside the €30,000 scheme. We have been able to go through with this in recent times, so that we have been able to provide parents with total compensation. Tomorrow the latest figures will be known and I'm going to send you a letter with all the details of where we stand in this operation. I therefore think it is important to indicate all the details: how many people we have been able to pay for money, who is eligible, how we proceed, etc. I would like to address the questions that have been asked. I shall begin with Mrs De Haan's questions of 50PLUS. How are we going to ensure that those who are injured are helped as quickly as possible? We passed a law for that last year. That law has been amended and strengthened. Because we felt that the recovery operation was not fast enough, we added the acceleration scheme in December last year, the €30,000 scheme. We will ensure that people are eligible as soon as possible. The people who have reported to us before 15 February will also receive the €30,000 if they are eligible. We have a Committee on Actual Damage and a debt settlement. There are all kinds of support. With this we try to help the parents as best we can. But that really is an incredible job, also because what happened to the parents, is often not very fast and easy to recover. That is about more, and that goes beyond just the money we have to repay them. Often it is only a matter of figuring out what has been repaid too much to us in 2007 or 2006, how it is put together and what adjustments have taken place. The parents rightly think it is important to know exactly how this is done, because they want to close this whole case. Of course, we are also working on this extra help. It is good to see that we have a great deal of support from the UNG. You also asked if it wouldn't be okay to arrange coaches to help parents. In fact, that is the role of two bodies, namely the personal case-handler, the people who help us, who may also be able to use legal aid, and the municipalities. Victim support The Netherlands also plays a role in this. We have made agreements with Victim Support Netherlands to ensure that parents who need it are helped further by them. The needs in this respect are incredibly different. There are a lot of parents who need a lot of help to get their lives back on track, but there are also a lot of parents who are now saying: I can do it myself. Of course you can. But there's that help. Mrs Den Haan also asks me: what do you need from the Chamber to help the parents? I'm very happy with that question. 'Cause it's complicated. The work is complicated and my colleagues and I are working very hard on it. There are two things I would like to say about this. What we need on the one hand is a certain degree of calm, cleanliness and regularity in implementation. If we want to keep pace, if we want to help parents well, and if we want to avoid mistakes, we cannot, of course, completely avoid mistakes; mistakes will be made and mistakes have been made, which I have just said something about, then we need as much rest as possible. Of course, it will also help us if you continue to follow us critically and if people report to you and say that it is not going well, then you will pass that on to us, so that we can continue to work with it. This is important to us, but of course this is important first and foremost for the parents involved. Because we still want to help them as quickly and as well as possible, despite the fact that it is a complicated and big job. Then I will go to Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Hermans' questions on the article in Trouw. That article says that there is an enormous workload on our employees, that there is a chance that money will be paid out unjustly and that the deadline of 1 May will probably not be met. I've already told you about the latter. The possibility of undue payments is present, because we are doing a light test. We discussed this with you in the same way. It may well be that people get money that may not be entitled to it afterwards. It may also be that we make other mistakes. We always want to restore them as quickly as possible. That's why we have an aftercare team. It is true that there is a high workload with our employees. There's an incredible amount of work going on. I'm very happy and proud of that. After all, we made a promise to parents that we would let them know before 1 May and that we would also pay the €30,000 if this were only possible, and fortunately that is also possible in many cases. We have always felt this promise to be a very important duty. This was also discussed in the last AO, among others by Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt. So, yeah, there's a lot of work going on. This is also mentioned in the article; some of our employees say that it is very difficult work. And it is, because it's kind of hard to hear the stories of parents. I have to tell you, I do this every week. I speak between eight and ten parents every week, one-on-one, and that's never easy. It's really firm to hear what people have been through, what it means to them, what it's like to feel like the government isn't listening to you anymore, growing up in poverty, and not being able to do what you'd like to do for your kids. That is something that affects our employees enormously. This stimulates and motivates them to go to work, but it also makes the work hard. Some employees who have been doing this for a year have said that they are going to do something else, to do another job. They allow someone else to continue the work. Fortunately, we also have a lot of new people who want to do that. Trouw has also indicated that the work, that integral assessments, has stood still in recent times. That's not true; we've gone through with it. In the latest progress report we have shown that we have been able to carry out more than 800 integral assessments. In the meantime, we're going through with that. Apart from the €30,000 scheme, we have also worked on the integral assessments. Then I will continue with Mrs Kuik's questions from the CDA. She asked if I could send a letter with the state of play. Yes, I'll give it to you tomorrow. I'm gonna make sure there's an update. She also asked to report on the state of play just before we have the debate on 27 May. Of course we do and then we get another last update. Then I go on to Mrs Hermans' question about the pause button and the compensation we will not make before 1 May. We do get the parents' review before 1 May, but there is indeed a group of parents that we do not yet have any indication of how to transfer €30,000 to. For them, the pause button does indeed lapse. That pause button was created on the basis of an amendment by Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg of your Chamber. We have agreed that all the government parties that have promised that they will actually cancel and cancel all the debts of the doomed parents will not start recovery until such time as those parents have received an integral assessment. For private parties, according to the law as it is today, that is not true. These private parties can indeed claim debts from the parents we have not seen today. The idea behind that moratorium was that it would be difficult to stop this because of the fact that there are creditors who have fair claims to parents. Parents who get into trouble because of this, I'd really like to help. I don't know exactly how to do that yet, but if that leads to problems, I'd like to look at it. This can be done by, for example, helping municipalities in their debt problems. This could be done by doing the full assessment earlier when there are major problems. Of course, we do not want people who are ultimately entitled to do so to get into extra trouble. Then I shall continue with Mrs Ploumen's question on the state of play of ethnic profiling. We have talked a lot about this subject. Actually, I need to be very clear about this. The investigation carried out by the Dutch Data Protection Authority shows very clearly that there was not so much ethnic profiling in this file as there was discrimination in the way in which the Tax Administration did the work. This is mainly in the processing of the second nationality of people and the nationality of people in the selections that have been made. In fact, you could say that people with second nationality had a chance to get picked out for extra checks. That sounds very bad, that's very bad and it's not okay at all. Let me be very clear about this, because discrimination cannot and must not be allowed. Later we saw that these additional controls could often also be very unfair. You could say it's an extra chance. No, the chance was then very high that it went seriously wrong afterwards. You can't, you can't, and you don't have to. That is why we have already done a great deal about it. We've had a lot of exchanges in the Chamber about that. We have ensured that this second nationality has disappeared from the systems and that we no longer use them. We have also ensured that we work together in the context of this whole recovery operation, and we want to help parents to do so with the College of Human Rights. We are looking at what we can do to ensure that parents are not only recognised when this has been the case, but in one way or another also find as much recognition as possible that says for them what happened. That's what we keep trying to do. We are not only doing this because we want to look very much at what is in those files and how the selection is going to be done, but also to get that out of the way. For example, what happens in the files we have encountered? I think these were the most important points that have been asked on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u829	Thank you. I think this is also an important part, especially for the parents watching. So I'm also giving a little more space here to ask the questions. First Mrs Marijnissen, then Mrs Ploumen and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u830	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. I think you're quite right to say that. This is the most important part of tonight. It's about how we're finally gonna fix it for the parents. I got up very quickly at the beginning of Mrs Van Huffelen's speech because she said that there would be a note tomorrow containing the exact figures of how many people have been paid out. Just so we're clear, this is about people's own money. That money's been taken away, and they'll get it back. So this is not even about the suffering suffered, the expulsions, children who have been taken away and the compensation that needs to be paid. This is simply about your money that has been illegally taken and that you have to get back. In fact, I find it unacceptable that I hear Mrs Van Huffelen say tonight that it is not going to be possible to settle that before 1 May for the group of 30,000 to 35,000 parents in the picture. That's what this cabinet promised these parents at Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u831	Then maybe I should be a little more specific. We have said that the people who have reported to us before 15 February of this year, some people have already done so much before, and they are entitled to €30,000, which is also ours. A very large proportion of the people who have been granted that right, namely 11,000 people, will receive that payment by tomorrow at the latest. Some of it we have not been able to reach, or there has been the fact that we made a mistake last week in the letters these people received. That's a mistake where I... I wanted to say I'm so sorry, but it just shouldn't have happened. Those people will still be paid, on May 12th. They all know they're being paid on May 12th. By tomorrow at the latest, the letters will be sent to us, stating that they are eligible. Some of those letters have already been sent. We have done this very carefully. We kept checking to see if we could find a reason. We didn't just check once, but we checked twice. We've also called people if we thought this was necessary to get extra information. So all the people whose rights we have been able to determine are also given the money. But there is also a group for which we do not now find these indications, for example because they are in the group I was just talking about. They're people who don't have children or who didn't request a KOT. Or they are people with refunds, but based on the fact that, for example, their income in a given year was higher than they had initially given up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u832	Let me get this straight. That idea of the €30,000 comes naturally from the cabinet. Suddenly they got out of the Catshuis, like: oh, there will be €30,000 for the duped parents. The idea of the SP was always different, namely: invite people with all their folders, sit with them and make sure that, when they walk out the door at the end of the day, they know what they are entitled to, and arrange it. That was always our proposal. That's been pushed aside. Everyone got $30,000. I think it's really incredible if people say it again... The cabinet has had four months, four months. Millions and millions of dollars of consultancy firms have been driven into the Ministry. There have been countless officials working on it. So there was time, there was capacity and money was thrown into it. Then it is no longer normal for us to ask as a Chamber: you have one more day; make sure it is settled? Make sure those people finally get what they deserve! And that means: their own money back and a compensation for all the suffering she's been done to. I simply note that you are now saying that this is not going to work again and that this will be another blow to the face of those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u833	Maybe it's good to say a few things. Last year we started to compensate parents on the basis of a law that was adopted unanimously in this Chamber. We found out it took incredibly long time to help parents one by one, file for file. We thought it was necessary to speed things up. That's where the arrangement came from at the Catshouse. That which we promised in December of that year, namely that the parents who would report to us before 15 February and who were doomed would receive €30,000, we also carried out that. If you ask whether we have already assessed all parents in their entirety: no, because we have also indicated that we could not. We cannot do this overall overall assessment at the rate that we would very much like to have with each other. In fact, I wish we'd finished two years ago. But at the heart of the matter is that it is an incredible amount of work and the promise we made to parents, if they are eligible for €30,000, to pay out that also before 1 May, which we get, except for the parents where it went wrong last week, because they do not get their money paid on 1 May, but on 12 May. That's what we're doing. In addition, we will continue to work very hard and also with the proposal that has indeed been made by your party, because you have asked whether it can be done faster or whether we cannot do that in one day. We've agreed to do a pilot for that. That's what we're gonna do. We will certainly talk about this in the next AO. It is also important that we should discuss with parents, among other things, the parents who are very closely associated with your party, Mrs Marijnissen, what exactly they want from that treatment. Parents have always said: "I just want to sit with my business manager first to exchange with him exactly what happened. After that, I think that the assessment and everything that is needed should be done in one day and preferably on location and I would like to speak with the municipality." That is exactly the pilot we intend to carry out in the coming period. So we are going to do that, because everything we can do to speed it up for the parents, I am very much in favour of that, but I am also aware of it, and I have learned even more in recent times that quick compensation and money is one thing, but that the process of healing for a parent goes beyond that, and that there is therefore even more to be done. More help from municipalities, there is a need for recognition of the fact that people are not frauds, and that they also need a number of other things, and we want to offer them to parents in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u834	The Secretary of State pretends to be the parents who ask a lot, because they would like to have a conversation and they would want to know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u835	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u836	Yeah, I think so! I don't think that's too much to ask. You have just had more than four months to do so. You have an entire civil service at your disposal. Again, you've hired millions of consultancies lately. So there was time, space and money to fix it for those parents. But I notice that wrong letters have been sent again. There was a promise "you won't get another one of these" "I'm sorry, I wanted to use an ugly word "shit letter in the mailbox, such anonymized letter in which you're rejected, and you can't object." Exactly what went wrong every time, goes wrong again. It's sad to see that we have one more day. I think I speak on behalf of everyone that we would all be available tomorrow to help solve it. But isn't it our moral duty to these people to make sure it's resolved by May 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u837	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u838	And I mean complete. So not only give back their own money that's been taken away, but also make sure people get what they deserve. That the suffering she's suffered will be compensated. If you now hear the stories of people who have to go to that so-called Committee on Real Damage, how complicated it is being made! Which they all need to resurrect. It'll kill people if they're not already dead! And then tonight we'd walk out the door and say, "Yes, it's been promised before Christmas." That was a nice Christmas idea: on May 1 everyone's right, but unfortunately, it's not gonna work anyway. We shouldn't accept that with each other tonight, should we? Just not once?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u839	But, Mrs Marijnissen, I do not know exactly what you are looking for, but we have always indicated that it is impossible to do before 1 May, or, more importantly, before the summer, that total full assessment of all parents. We couldn't do that and that's why we decided in the Catshuis, and of course we discussed it extensively, to do something different for parents, namely to give all parents who have been duped €30,000. I am just explaining that we are going to be able to do so, for the most part on 1 May and for a smaller part on 12 May. You say that the total, integral assessment of all parents, helping the total, was promised on 1 May. No, that's not right. We didn't promise that, and I would never have promised that, because I couldn't believe it. I'd love to, but we couldn't. We're doing what we promised and promised. In addition, we continue to help parents. It is a very large group, but I am also pleased with it: after February 15th, a group of parents again reported that they were hurt. Your Chamber has always asked: do everything in its power to ensure that everyone can be found. Luckily, a lot of parents have come forward again. We're gonna help them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u840	What strikes me so is the huge contrast when we talk in this Chamber about crisis arrangements such as Tozo and NOW, which are very much appreciated by everyone and which are very necessary and where there is no room or time for specific reviews, with what these parents have been going through for a number of years now. That has to do with the fact that they have been put at a disadvantage, and that is a polite word for it from a very complicated system. Now they have to go through that same complicated system again to get their rights. Of course, there's a lot going wrong. Wrong letters are being sent. I read in Trouw's article that it is not possible to appeal against a decision on that €30,000, so I would also like to ask the Secretary of State about this. But if we have found together that this is unprecedented injustice, then it must be possible that we do not bring these people through the same pits of the whole system that we want to get rid of together, at least we and I think you too? There's got to be another way. This is a more general reflection, but of course there is also the following: how does it work out for this scheme, which could provide a solution in the short term, both quickly and for a relatively broad group of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u841	That's exactly what it's going to do and what it's already done for a lot of parents, because we've paid €30,000 to a large group of parents. Of course, we soon found out that some parents could not receive €30,000 at all, because they were in a debt restructuring process. If we were to transfer that amount, it would disappear into the estate. In the meantime, we've arranged that that doesn't happen. So this is the way we're trying to do it. The point is that we often have to go through everything with our business managers, who talk very intensively with parents. That's not because we're trying to get the parents to look everything up or get everything up. We try to work as much as we can from the story they tell us. But that's because a lot of parents think it's very important that I also notice this in the conversations I'm having with them to know exactly what went wrong and what they might have done wrong, which is often not so, or what we've done wrong and what we've done to them. A lot of parents then talk to me about the year 2007: yes, and then the Tax Administration came up with a recovery. This appears to be about 2005 or 2006, or rather. They really want to know. I'd really like to help them in that process. Mrs Marijnissen is right in saying that we should do the same. But we try to make it as easy as possible for them, initially through the €30,000 scheme and by making sure they have someone next to them. Fortunately, the personal business managers are well appreciated by parents. We're doing a lot of research on that. On average, parents give them an 8.1, I think, so that's very nice. But it's a big process and it didn't just resolve it. A lot of parents also call their business agents very often. There are parents who have long been fully compensated, so they have received the whole amount and the compensation and so on and so on, and who are still calling their business manager to better understand what is going on. That's good, 'cause that's what they're for. Let me now turn to the subject of the objection. We sent letters to people we didn't find a clue on. In those letters we have indicated: despite all the work we have done to see if there was any indication that you are eligible for this €30,000 scheme, we have not found that indication. This does not mean that you are not eligible for compensation, but that we cannot find it yet. That is why we are not going to pay €30,000 at the moment." Of course, that is not a nice letter, because people have come forward and assumed that they were eligible for it. Wherever we could, we called all these people. This has not been achieved in all cases, because not everyone is available or accessible. But wherever we could, we called them about that. And we sent a letter. I've already told you about the kinds of reasons why we didn't see any clues. Then the question is whether you can object to it. Yeah, you can. People can object to this letter. It is a bit of a legal complicated story, because the decision we make is not: you are not eligible for compensation. We're just saying, not at the moment. People can object to that and say: you have to look again. Anyway, they're all gonna get that integral review. I don't want people having to object again. That requires an action from parents. I would therefore very much like to say that this is also our intention to look at their integral case as soon as possible and see if there is any reason to give them money. If so, we will do so as soon as possible. So, yeah, they can just object. It's possible. I hope it is not necessary, because we want to do the full assessment as soon as possible. I have also said that parents who have received such a letter and who think "this can't be true at all, this is not me and this is not the point" can contact us. Our aftercare team can help them. By the way, those calls are also the reason why we discovered that mistake last week, which we now recovered as quickly as possible. So you can make an objection. You don't have to, because we're gonna look at all these parents very closely and integrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u842	Finally. I think what the Secretary of State is saying about this objection is important, because the impression I get from the reactions of parents, and also from lawyers, is that that letter does not give any reason to think: I can object. So I'd like to call the Secretary of State after all. There have been numerous letters sent to the parents involved and it is too often a search image. That's what it turns out to be. I would therefore like to call on her to ensure that these letters have a certain precision, so that people do not have to think again: what am I supposed to do with this? Because that happens over and over and over again. Despite the desire to do them justice, it just doesn't feel that way. Then another letter pops up on the doormat that you think is: but now they don't think I'm entitled to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u843	That may be very nasty, but it may also be justified. Someone may indeed be in trouble, but they are not eligible for this scheme. Of course, we have to look at that, and then we have to ask municipalities, for example, to help them. Let's talk about the letters. There are actually two things we do in our recovery operation. We have an Parent Panel and all the letters we send to parents, I don't mean the one-to-one letters, but all the letters that go to multiple parents are judged by them. They are also judged by the Foundation Reading and Writing, because we think it is so important that these letters are as understandable as possible. Then it may still be that it is not clear for a parent or for a group of parents. That's why there's always our phone number. Just before 1 May it is of course a total madhouse in our call center. I understand that too, because parents are very worried about whether they're next or not. I really hope that everyone has received an answer from us by now and otherwise it will be in the next few days. We are very keen to make these letters as readable as possible by allowing our Parent Panel to look at them. That's what looks at: how would I see that for myself when I was older? The Stichting Lezen en Schrijven also looks at this. We work with icons. Of course, we try to provide as much information as possible on our website, and in all kinds of other forms. But you are right: parents should ideally receive a letter that they really understand and that does not lead to questions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u844	Thank you. Finally, Mr Azarkan. Finally, there is a question of reflection from Mrs Van der Plas. But first of all, Mr Azarkan. And Mr. Klaver and Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u845	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought it was a little unclear in the interrupting debate with Mr Ploumen. It is, of course, essential that people be able to oppose a light test rejection in objection and appeal. I know there's been internal strangulation about that. Lawyers said, "Be clear about that and write it right. Now the parents themselves have to decide, on the basis of five or six criteria, why they are not eligible. I'm getting a lot of reports about that. People say: that is unclear to me. And when they start calling, especially in the last week and a half, availability is really thin. It's been different. It's just really hard for parents to get through right now. So let me get this straight. According to lawyers, it's a letter with legal effect. According to the General Administrative Law it would then be eligible for appeal and appeal, but that is not clear. That's not what that letter says either. So I think it's a little half when the Secretary of State says "it's possible" but it's not in it. What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u846	It's possible. There's also a reference in the letters we sent you that you may object. But I was just trying to explain that, too. "Objection" is another step of a parent; a parent who then has to go to work, who has to write a letter and say: in my opinion it is not right and so on and so on. The older person objects in principle because of the fact that I want it to be looked at again whether or not I am eligible for the €30,000 scheme. Much more pleasant and pleasant for parents it is when we look at the case of such a parent integrally, because then we can look at it at once. That's exactly what we're gonna do. So we have said: "We do not reject you; we only say that we do not see any clues at the moment and we are going to judge you in full." But if a parent says "that might take a while; I don't agree, I want to report," I would say above all. Please call us if you really don't understand and want more information. You may also object. The lawyer, who you can get free of charge from us, can also help you, but we prefer to go into this integral treatment with you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u847	I understand that very well. I think that Mrs Van Huffelen, I and a lot of people who are not in those circumstances understand that very well. So it's a light test. It's not a direct rejection. This is followed by an integrated assessment. It's just, for those people, it's very complicated. It's kind of a straw. They're afraid they're gonna fall out of it, that they're no longer eligible, that it's gonna slip away from them. So they really try to get attention to it everywhere, through MPs as well as through others. Because they're so scared they're not eligible for it. So I understand very well that the Secretary of State says that that's some kind of formal... It's not even a formal intermediate step, but he's also formal. That is why communication on this issue is really important. On that point too, I would simply like to draw more attention to that. So try to make another move to reach those parents again and to explain that very well, so they have the peace. At least that's my incentive. I understand it's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u848	I'd really like to do that. How exactly we're gonna do that, I don't know yet, but we're gonna do our best. The last thing I really want to do is put parents through even more trouble. At the same time, there is also a group of parents in which we have indeed not found those indications at the moment, for example because we have not seen them as applicants for the KOT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u849	Imagine that those 1,750 parents, who were discovered through you and who had been wrongly rejected, would not have been able to object, so we would have had another kind of small affair. Because then we would have had the same thing as grab him in 2011, 2012 where those people... I merely urge that we should prevent people from being rejected on the basis of the wrong facts and that we should ensure that they are able to achieve their rights properly by objecting to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u850	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u851	My final question is about the FSV. That's not your responsibility, but you're there now and it's under taxes. I would also like to point out that many parents are now reporting and saying in a panic: I have received a letter. This panic leads them to say: "So I seem to have been on a list, on a list of frauds, the Fraud Signaling Provision, and that has all kinds of consequences; I can see why my municipality was so difficult or why I couldn't get something done at that one instance." My request on that point too is to ensure that information is provided and that people can really go somewhere, so that they can get an explanation. The letter alone is insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u852	I'm sure that's the point. That letter was sent out. This is done under the responsibility of my colleague, Mr Filipino. That was also one of the questions that your Chamber asked: send a message to people on that list. That letter also says exactly what they can do. If that is not sufficiently clear, I will certainly ask Mr Vijlbrief to provide further information on this matter. Because people can also report to us, they can indicate that they want more information about why they were on that list and how they got on that list and so on. That is very important, because people can indeed have had very bad consequences as a result of being on that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u853	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mr Klaver, then to Mrs Simons and then to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u854	I have a brief question, and if it comes up in the debates at a later date, it is fine, but I think it is important to deal with it tonight. There are parents who believe they are entitled to this €30,000, but the Tax Office has not been able to establish this. The panic exists that the stop button goes off and that private creditors can go back to their business. Has the Secretary of State already considered whether it is possible to speed up legislation so that there is a moratorium on private creditors as long as this path runs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u855	If we want to amend the law governing that moratorium, it will require a change of law. In my opinion, this can be arranged in two ways: either by you or by the cabinet. Or how we should want to? I understand there's a motion going around in this Chamber asking this question. I would like to say a little more about this later, because I think that I should first look at this with the legislative technicians. The essence is that this is not now regulated by the law. If we're gonna have to fix that, we're gonna have to change that. I don't know if that's possible. Then the question is which one of us does that. Is there an amendment, a letter of amendment, or do I know what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u856	Very nice. This has to be legally well-organized, I get that. I would like to point out, and I think that this is true for a large part of the Chamber, that if there is more time needed, for whatever reason, and also for private creditors, the moratorium must be extended, we will pull everything out of the box in order to make this legislative amendment possible. In this period of corona everything has gone wrong, but I think one thing is going very well every time: if legislation has to be dealt with urgently in this Chamber, it will always work extremely quickly. I think that will also apply to this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u857	Moreover, it is important to know that this moratorium does apply to the affected parents. For parents who have been eligible for this €30,000, this moratorium applies. In fact, we have said that for a part of these parents we will not only forgive the public but also the private debts. So you are talking specifically about people for whom we do not now see any indication that they are eligible, but who are in debt. For them, the moratorium will indeed expire. Again, I would like to look at that, but I cannot say anything about it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u858	Thank you. Mrs Simons and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u859	I just asked Mr Hoekstra a number of questions regarding the follow-up: whether there have been any internal consequences in the management of the business for people working there. I thought I was referred to Mrs Van Huffelen for this question. So I want to ask the same question. In what way would parents find satisfaction in the fact that there have been repercussions internally for the people who have to carry out the processes and who have made their lives so miserable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u860	I find that a very difficult question to answer. In the conversations I have with parents I have already talked to 340 parents one-on-one, I have already told you often about how this all happened. What went wrong? Are there any people at the IRS who made mistakes? But also, for example, "I've had a judge opposite me who didn't give me a chance." Or other things. The question you're asking is about employees of the IRS. In line with what Mr Hoekstra said about this, I do not think it is up to me to indicate here in the Chamber exactly what the repercussions are for people in the Tax Administration or what measures we have taken with regard to individuals on this subject. But, of course, we do have a very extensive internal debate which is still going on about how this could have happened. What's going on? What do we have to do to prevent this? How can we ensure that these kinds of mistakes are no longer made within the Tax Office and that people are treated in a way that we stand for, namely in a reliable, legal, open and service manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u861	I'm not looking for individual stories, names or information about these people at all; absolutely not. If I was one of the duped parents, I'd like to know that I'm also hearing from duped parents who take responsibility somewhere for the terror they've experienced. It doesn't seem to happen in the cabinet. Whether Jantje, Pietje or Klaasje is from Hoofddorp or Rotterdam, I don't care, but I find it hard to accept that the parents and the Chamber in no way can trust that there are consequences for this behavior. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u862	Let me be clear: in many ways responsibility has been taken, by this cabinet, by collective resignation, and by individual rulers in the past, Mr Snel, Mr Wiebes, and so on. If you say it's about one, two or three people in the internal service, you assume the idea that there were one, two or three people in the service who did it wrong and that it was because it went wrong. A lot of things went wrong in this file. There is not one person to be appointed, or one judge, or one situation. That's why you can't say to a parent: we said goodbye to Mr. Jansen or Mrs. Pietersen and that's it. It's not like that. The consequences that we, as a cabinet, have attached to this are the consequences that we should draw from it, I think, namely that we are responsible for it, and I also want to show parents that we are taking it very seriously and that we are doing everything we can to help them. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u863	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u864	Finally, indeed, Mr President. Again, I'm not looking for who got fired and why. I know that people are seriously hurt, even by personal actions. I am not talking about judges or other bodies. I'm talking about people who work for the IRS. You've spoken to 340 parents. I do not know if they have felt free to share with the Secretary of State that some of them are really intimidated, sexually intimidated. It can't be that you stand here and say to me: well, I don't really know if we're dealing with people like that? Because even today, every Dutchman has to do with the Tax Administration. It would be nice for every Dutchman to know that there are no people who work from whom they have to fear this, no matter how skewed the instruction, the process or the mores.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u865	That is also exactly what we should want, namely that there are people working at the Tax Office who, fortunately, also work there who are doing their job with full conviction and sincerity, from the state of law and the provision of services. That's what I want, so that we are what we want to be and what the employees of the IRS want to be. They don't want to harm people or treat them in a nasty way. That that happened in the past, a lot of parents told me. Fortunately, they feel very open to telling me. Then what I can say is that I want to stand in front of a tax administration where that doesn't happen. I want to work on this with all the people who work at the Tax Office, the Ministry and, by the way, other enforcement organisations, which are not the norm. The norm is what's good for the people we do this job for. Doing serviceable work, from a culture of rule of law: that is what I would like to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u866	Thank you. Mr Segers and then Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u867	The Secretary of State just said that the moratorium is being extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u868	No, I didn't say that. We've been asked if that's possible. I said I want to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u869	At least that's hopeful. The door's ajar. At least four of the 10 parents who have applied for compensation are rejected. In the end, they go towards an integral assessment. There goes: first in, first out. This also means that others who have been given the commitment will also be assessed in full. People have now been unjustly rejected. Is it not advisable, then, to treat those who have been rejected first in that comprehensive assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u870	Just two things. We should not use the word'reject' in this case, because that sounds like people are not entitled to compensation. We said we didn't find any clues at the moment. We've been looking very hard to find it, but for some parents we haven't found it. The second is that we have always promised to people that we have broken through with the €30,000 scheme that the first ones who have come forward will also be helped by us first. I notice that a lot has changed over on Twitter. I have a very active Twitter account, in the sense that a lot of people respond to it. I notice that they also consider that to be extremely important, that they feel that, if they have reported in sometime in autumn 2019, they are ahead of anyone who has reported in last week, or someone who may have reported in earlier. To be honest, I think that is also very important, so I want to stick to the agreement I made. In the integral assessment we work on the basis of: who came to us first, we help first. Two things apply. One. We have always said that people who are in acute problems can always be treated as a matter of priority by us. Then, of course, the question was "what's acute?" We'll leave it with the parent to report it. We're hoping that when they experience that, parents will report to us. The second is that I find it very difficult to bring forward people we don't see that clue with right now. It could also be someone who might have come forward in January. Anyone who reported in 2019 and who is probably entitled to much more than €30,000 would be treated much later. Parents like that are here. To be honest, I do not think that is such a convenient, or rather "fair" way of working. Although I understand your question very well, and we ourselves are constantly thinking about what is right and fair, we have said so far: we want to follow the order we agreed on earlier: those who have first come forward are also the first to be treated in full by us. Of course, we're gonna see how we can speed that up. If parents are in acute trouble, they can always be the first to report back, so that we can help them with a faster treatment or otherwise. We did that in the autumn of last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u871	I have concluded my contribution with a passionate plea to pay attention to that one. I am thinking now of the one that is wrongly not passing the first test, but it turns out to be entitled to at least €30,000 compensation. Maybe the debts of the person concerned are gonna tap again. If it is not possible to extend that moratorium again, at least the creditors will be at the door again. In a year's time, the person concerned may prove to be entitled. That would be a very unfair situation, wouldn't it? Then I can imagine that you give priority to those who may be entitled to it, but will not receive compensation, over those who have already received compensation. Again, especially if the creditors are on the doorstep again, the situation can become very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u872	That goes for a lot of parents. Also for that parent from 2019, who may be entitled to €150,000 compensation, now has received €30,000, but still is not out of trouble, it is true that he is entitled and that it would be very painful if he was not helped quickly, to do things for the children. In fact, for everyone, you want it as soon as possible. Again, I think it is wise to have the order based on commitment. In the second term, I would like to come back to that in order to see what we can do with the moratorium.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u873	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u874	Finally, Madam President. Indeed, the moratorium would already give a damn. In addition, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to at least provide room for those distressing cases. Suppose that the creditors are on the doorstep, that afterward you are entitled to generous compensation and that you do not get anything in the interim, then it is really poignant and we are wronging people we have already done so much wrong. My appeal would be: at least open the doors to these distressing situations and at least give them priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u875	We always do. Yeah, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u876	However, I am moving forward again, because I think I have missed the answer again to the question of reflection: how do you think it is going? I can imagine that you find it difficult to answer that question, because it is quite general. The point is, for example: do you still feel up to it? Or: will you continue with the cabinet that sits here? Do you still trust the people in the cabinet? Do you still trust yourself? I'm just giving you some shots, but you can also give me your own reflection, but I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u877	Thank you for this question. I hadn't forgotten that one. I wasn't quite finished. It's been over a year since I became Secretary of State and started working on this file. We talked a lot tonight about what happened during the period when I wasn't there, but also in the period when I was there. We have seen that the problems turned out to be much bigger and more serious than we thought. Think of what has happened to individual parents with the problems that have been the consequences of it and so on and so forth. It's an incredibly big job to do that. On the one hand, that is a wonderful and honorable task to work on, but at the same time it is also sometimes hard work; not only hard work, but also quite heavy. It's for that reason that the team I work for and myself are incredibly honored to get it all right. What happened to the parents is so incredibly unimaginable. I advise everyone to talk to them or to join me in the conversations I have with parents. It's impressive what's happening. My only reflection is that there is nothing more to it than working hard and constantly thinking about what problems we have missed, what we still have to find a solution for and what things have happened to parents we haven't done yet. On the other hand, I also think it is important that I see this around me in the debate that is taking place here, in order to maintain the theme of peace, cleanliness and regularity. It's the worst thing for parents when new things keep coming up. I notice from the conversations I'm having and I see on my Twitter account, which comes in a lot, that people can panic very much when uncertainty arises. It is also important that we look very closely at what needs to be done better and how we are going to do it, but we also need to do it in peace. We need to look carefully at how we are going to continue to work with all due care to restore what has been done to these parents. It has been said in the report, but it is also unprecedented and very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u878	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u879	I'll leave it at that. Everyone is free in their own reflection. I could go dram with anything and everything, but I'm not gonna do that. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u880	This, I believe, has put an end to the first term of the Secretary of State, with thanks for that. I shall suspend briefly for five minutes and then give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation for her contribution. Then we'll go straight to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u881	We are ready for the last ruler of this evening, at least in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u882	Thank you, Madam President. Two questions were put to me by the Chamber, one by Mrs Hermans of the VVD and one by Mrs Van der Plas. The latter, of course, has been passed on to all rulers. Mrs Hermans asked me what I meant by the term 'frameworks', as read in the minutes of the Council of Ministers. I can be brief and I hope to be clear about that. In the Minutes, you will be the first to see that I am advocating much more dualism. I call a fierce debate, including by members of the coalition groups, a healthy sign of and in democracy. The frameworks I was thinking of, which I named but did not spell out, were, first and foremost, respectful of values and standards, respectful of everyone's role and independent responsibility. There must, of course, also be a basis of confidence on which we try to implement a coalition agreement, which has also been mentioned by Mr Koolmees. That's part of the discussion. That's how I thought of frameworks. It's no more and no less than that. Above all, of course, it must never come to the point where individual Members of Parliament are limited or have the feeling that they cannot carry out their role independently. You read in the Minutes that I am clear about this. Logically, I ended my quote with a reference to my own policy area, foreign trade and development cooperation, where I often worked together or in parallel with members of coalition groups, who agreed or disagreed with me or submitted alternative notes while I had just submitted a new note. It was a situation, for example, Mr Van Haga was such a colleague of mine in which I did not necessarily think 'o, what a good idea', but it was the reality. That was healthy, and that's what I was trying to say in that short quote. In short, I have always been in favour of more dualism, of a more open debate. That is what I expected when I returned to the Netherlands, when I first joined Dutch politics and took on that role. I have put that out on the Council of Ministers at various times, and I say that here too. Then there is Mrs van der Plas' question. Reflection is a deep and hard-lived task. I didn't sit on the Council of Ministers at a large number of meetings, in particular during the Surcharges affair. But when I looked in the broad sense, I was very quickly convinced that it was right that the cabinet had taken responsibility for the unprecedented injustice that parents and their children have suffered. That is, as has been rightly pointed out, much more than just money. It's lives that have been destroyed, time you can never get back, reputations, futures, hopes and ambitions. The great task for all of us, and I really hope that we will see it in the discussions we are having on the basis of Mr Tjeenk Willink's letter, is to put man back at the centre of everything we do and for whom we do it. We have seen in the premium affair that man, unintentionally, was crushed by a system, seemed to have almost no chance at all. It is up to all of us, whether we work from Parliament, whether I sit in parliament or join a future cabinet, to do better with each other. That is an individual task. It is also a duty that we all have, because it is unprecedented that in a rich country like the Netherlands people are confronted with such situations and that, for example, children and a million Dutch people live in poverty and suffer from it. There are a lot of big tasks. Those are the substantive choices, and I hope that at some point we will get to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u883	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr Azarkan. You don't have to run. You've seen that everyone gets a chance to interrupt tonight. Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Ouwehand. Yes, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u884	I also think I would have asked Mrs Kaag a question. If it isn't, I'd really like to ask him right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u885	I didn't write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u886	It could be. I think I'd already asked him, but otherwise I'd love to ask him now. I made the point that Mr Rutte said he would have radical ideas about openness. I was wondering how credible that was, given all that can be read in the Minutes. In the debate on 1 April, Mrs Kaag of course used strong words about leadership. She also said, "This is where we part ways." I was wondering out loud what that would be worth if those minutes showed that around this whole child care allowance affair that whole path was set out together from the summer of 2019, in front of Mrs Kaag. You walked that path together. What is it worth to say in the debate on 1 April in very firm terms 'here separate our ways', if it turns out that you have walked that path together all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u887	You refer, of course, to the whole debate and to the motion of censure I have tabled, together with Mr Hoekstra, CDA group chairman. It's a very different situation that we've named there. And sometimes I talk in a non-Binnenhofs Dutch. When I say "here separate our ways," I mean "our ways part here." This is where the roads separate. That doesn't mean I'm gonna keep my distance from everything and everyone forever. However, I am at another point of departure. That's what that's supposed to mean. I have used strong words, and I think that in the debate on 5 April we continued on a new course of action. If you are talking about the supplementing affair and the whole process explained further by the minutes of the year 2019, you can also see that the cabinet has tried to act with the right intentions, that it has tried to help the parents, that there have been huge problems in the implementation and that new problems have emerged in a very complex area. Eventually, the cabinet took the ultimate responsibility, including me, by resigning. That's how I look at this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u888	I do my best to listen carefully to Mrs Kaag and to understand her. She says she uses words that are not of the Binnenhofs. I don't mind that, not at all. I even applaud that with all that jargon here. However, I would ask Mrs Kaag to explain it further. You said this is where we part ways. By which you meant that you have a different starting point. What do you say? What exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u889	The debate at that time was on two issues. You may recall that Mr Rutte had said very late in the NIS, the night before or a few days earlier, that he had not spoken about Mr Omtzigt. Coincidentally, he said the same thing on my behalf. The difference was that it turned out that Mr Rutte had spoken about Mr Omtzigt. I don't. That's where our paths separated. That was meant to be the case at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u890	I have the motion of censure tabled by Mr Hoekstra and Mrs Kaag. That was a solid motion, which says, among other things, that this has caused serious damage to the restoration of public confidence in the government. That text is correct, I think, but I do not think that we have taken a step forward now that those minutes have come out. This shows that it was widely known in the cabinet that the group was much larger, that the main concern was that it should not have a precedent. It also shows that, unfortunately, in the summer of 2019, no one in the Council of Ministers, not even Mrs Kaag, put the fist on the table and said: now we are going to give Parliament an honest answer to the questions that have been asked; we are going to solve them. Then I think Mrs Kaag agrees with me that this firm consideration in the motion is now more applicable than ever, but perhaps it is applicable to the whole cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u891	I see the context of the motion tabled with Mr Hoekstra as a completely different situation. Of course, the years of work surrounding the allowances and the drama that happened to parents and children have been partly completed by the committee and by the resignation of the cabinet. I see that as another debate. When Mr Tjeenk Willink's letter comes, we all have an opportunity from Parliament to discuss how we want to implement this new style of administration, what the criteria are, what the basis is for working on restoring confidence towards the citizen, how we need to strengthen dualism, what coalition practice should be, how the parliament can be strengthened and how we can invest in the rule of law. That has a lot of components. I don't see that as a one-on-one overlap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u892	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u893	Excuse me. Very briefly. It's still so abstract to me. You're talking about governance and culture. That is all very important, but we are talking here very specifically about thousands of parents who have been crushed by the government. And you've been there all along. It was your Secretary of State Snel, from D66, who already knew in the summer of 2019 that it was a much larger group, but who refused to properly inform the Chamber about it. You too, Mrs Kaag, did not put your fist on the table at the time, or, if that does not suit you, made it clear in another way that this is simply not possible. I honestly wonder why not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u894	The Minister, and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u895	The cabinet has resigned. You will also understand that as a trade minister for foreign trade and development cooperation, I may not be able to fully follow all aspects, but I know that colleagues have worked very hard on this. At the moments when collective decision-making took place, we exchanged views. But in the end, there is unity of government policy. I support that, too. And I fully support, and at a very early stage, the importance of resigning to take that responsibility. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u896	I have a question about the report and its conclusions, namely that information has been withheld for political reasons. It would appear that the Chamber, minus the VVD, but perhaps that Mr Van Wijngaarden, who was on the committee and underlined and supported it, agrees with it, so at least a large part of the Chamber says, as was stated in Mr Dijkhoff's motion, that it embraces the conclusions. Two things are at the heart of this: the Chamber is immeasurable, incorrect and incompletely informed, not for reasons of openness and transparency, but for reasons of political interest. Does Mrs Kaag endorse that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u897	No. I endorsed the cabinet's line that it is not right that the cabinet did not give that information for political reasons. As I think has been very detailed in the many debates that you have had yourself and which you and Mr Leijten have had very early, colleagues in the cabinet, the trade ministers and the secretaries of state, often did not have the documents themselves. That's what the POK concluded. So the information and the information system were abominable. That is, of course, also a point of departure. I therefore support the conclusion of the cabinet that it is not for political reasons. I believe that this has been debated for a long time this evening, but it is also my opinion. I fully support the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u898	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u899	This means that the Minister does not agree with what D66 thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u900	I join the cabinet. That's right. I'm a missionary minister here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u901	I had this question, too. Many examples have been exchanged in the debate, from which at least the whole Chamber has drawn its conclusion after the Van Dam Committee, which has done a very good job, which has also played a role in several cases of failure to inform the Chamber other than the inadequate information system, all of which has already been established, and in legal and political terms. In fact, I hear Mrs Kaag say here: the work of that committee, which I really do not care about on this point. They only made that up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u902	I can only repeat once again that colleagues have explained in detail how the cabinet has made choices. An extensive cabinet letter also accompanied the minutes. I support the line that it is not right that the cabinet did not provide information for political reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u903	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u904	How does Mrs Kaag judge with her plea for a new style of administration, more openness and more transparency than that she now has a fundamental difference of opinion with the entire Chamber minus the VVD Group? And what I must clearly blame Mr Rutte for is that you do not even recognize that there are political reasons. That you see your own as the country's interest and as it adheres to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u905	I think it is correct that I speak here in dualist terms. I'm here as Demissionary Minister for Trade and Development Cooperation. I support the cabinet line. I don't know if it's a question of not seeing. It's a deliberate choice. We are also talking about this in all the debates that have taken place in other committees. I always see Mrs Ouwehand in debates on trade and trade agreements and not in debates of this kind, at least I do not. But I think there has been an extensive exchange of views, so I do not have any additional explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u906	Thank you. Mrs Hermans and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u907	I have a very brief question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u908	Yes, but I think Mrs Hermans wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u909	I will be very brief and refer to my two personal facts this morning. I had reason to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u910	Thank you. Noted. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u911	I think I have the shortest question today: does Minister Kaag have confidence in Mr Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u912	We are here for this debate. I think it is very important that we wait for Mr Tjeenk Willink's report and then discuss the commitment of everyone. Mr Rutte said that in the coming days he would reflect on his personal interpretation of the office, on the future and on his ambition and that he would explain his own contribution and interpretation. That is, of course, very important. I think we should listen to that openly, as everyone always deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u913	Thank you. I want to thank the Minister. You had a short question and I gave it to you, but you can actually go straight ahead for your second term. Also for you about a minute and a half, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u914	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer. It is clear: the Minutes show that the actions of the cabinet members have caused serious damage to parliamentary democracy and that the Chamber has been misinformed, incomplete and prematurely informed for political reasons. That the cabinet does not admit that, I find it painful, but I read that well in the report and it is good that the Chamber has embraced that in width, minus the VVD. Mr. Chairman. I have seen Prime Minister Rutte bow a little bit, but for the rest he hasn't taken a single step in the much-needed connection and in regaining confidence. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the minutes of the Council of Ministers released show that the Minister of LNV has noted that "coalition groups are regularly informed in confidence and the question arises as to what can still be shared confidentially';]] [[Whereas all 150 Members of Parliament are entitled to the same information at the same time;]] [[strongly disapproves of the way in which the cabinet operates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u915	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[rejects the statements on the "sensitising" of MP Omtzigt by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the United States of America,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u916	I would like to have a roll-call vote on both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u917	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u918	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The misconduct of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u919	Could you keep it down in the hall a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u920	I hear it's fun in "K." Mr. Chairman. The misbehaviour of the Prime Minister and the rest of the cabinet is to become nauseous. It touches the heart of our parliamentary democracy. The room's been lied to. The Chamber has been denied the information requested. Rule 68 has been ignored. That's criminal behavior. Members of parliament are disgustingly intimidated to shut them up. This has aggravated and delayed the truth, recognition and solution for the victims of the childcare allowance. The question today is whether the Chamber will be lamb or lion. Whether the motion of censure I have is signed or accepted. As a result, we are showing that we are not being messed with and that we are not a fake parliament, but a real parliament. Because with Rutte and his companions, nothing really changes. He's an unreliable man, on his way to power, who just wants to hold on to power and do everything to stay in power. And one thing, one thing is needed to get the so sought-after recovery in confidence in politics in the Netherlands, and that is an exit from Rutte. He's the man who cheated on the Netherlands. He's the man who fooled this room. He's the guy who broke all the rules of state law. The following is needed: an exit from Rutte and his cabinet, new elections and a new political impetus as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u921	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u922	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions, so hurry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for disabled parents who did not receive compensation before 1 May, the pause button for collecting private debts expires;]] [[also noted that only a little more than half of the people who have been injured have received compensation through the light test and that the number of people in need of comprehensive treatment is in many thousands;]] [[calls on the Government to press the pause button until people have been definitively rejected for compensation and this also with the injured parties by means of a legal decision stating the grounds for rejection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u923	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people on the Tax Office's blacklist are informed of this sad event at the request of the Chamber;]] [[noting that the letter received does not indicate why people have entered this list and that people themselves should take the initiative to request it from the Tax Administration;]] [[calls on the government to quickly and honestly tell people who have been told that they are on the blacklist what the reason was and who shared that data, in order to avoid long-term uncertainty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u924	Mr President, the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the released minutes of the Council of Ministers evoke the painful picture that was often discussed about the prevention of precedent in relation to a scheme for disabled persons in the childcare allowance scandal;]] [[noting that the outgoing cabinet is still unable to set up the assistance for parents and to let them know by a rapid procedure whether they will receive compensation;]] [[calls on the government to put the victims of the surcharge scandal in real terms, to resolve the problems in the implementation of the compensation and to inform the Court fairly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Kuik, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen, Mr Dassen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Segers, Mr Simons, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Haga, Mr Hermans and Mr Jetten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u925	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u926	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. In any case, this evening has given me a common thread and something that is quite natural, namely that any relationship between government and citizens, and the House of Representatives and Parliament, is or falls with confidence, and that this requires open, equal communication and transparency. For this we all have a great deal of work to do, I think, including all the parties. I would like to take care of something pragmatic with Mrs van der Plas, but I understand that a great deal has already been done, also at local level. I hope that the Secretary of State can reassure me that for all those affected, also in view of the decentralisation and autonomy of municipalities, there is help at local level to help those people put their lives back on track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u927	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u928	Thank you, Mr President. For the parents the misery is far from over and that is very distressing and that is very sad. I have co-signed the motion tabled by Mrs Marijnissen that these people really need to be put on one. The Minutes have also shown that the committee has done a good job. The Chamber already knew that, but the cabinet wanted to cast doubt on it, namely that we embrace the conclusions of the committee, but not that there have been political reasons for it. That's very serious. It is also very serious that the Chamber simply lets the cabinet get away with it, because what has the resignation been worth? And what were the excuses worth? Mr. Chairman. That is why it is very important that we at least create clarity as a Chamber. There are also new parties. That is why I am tabling a motion which I am sure you will be aware of, because it is very similar to Mr Dijkhoff's motion adopted unanimously in January this year. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance has carried out a thorough investigation and laid down its findings in a clear report;]] [[reiterates her appreciation for this;]] [[endorses all the findings of the interrogation committee, including the finding that the provision of information to the Chamber is in several cases motivated by desired legal or political outcomes, resulting in only partial, delayed or non-disclosure of information,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u929	I think that's good, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u930	Clear. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u931	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. I would like to come back to the issue of the importance of compensation for parents, to put it all together. We also signed that motion. I think that is an important signal that we share. Mr. Chairman. I have noticed that several motions have been adopted earlier and announced this evening, which also concern the way in which the Chamber operates. For example, a motion from my hand was adopted in the previous debate on strengthening the evaluation of laws, which the Chamber itself plays a part in. We have heard from the Minister of the Interior that he has extended the designation of external contacts with civil servants, but that also calls for an impact on our parliamentary practice. I am also thinking of the recommendations made by the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations TCU. They also stressed the urgency of shaping those recommendations. I would just like to point out at this time that there is a great deal to be done in this respect, which also calls for action from our Chamber. I assume that it also has the attention of the Bureau in the way in which we continue to do so as a Chamber. Because as I pointed out in my first term: in discussions about more dualism and such, we can look at the government, but it is also very much in the way in which we as a Chamber, transcending parties, can work for better control and better legislation. This is something our group would like to work towards in the coming period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u932	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u933	Mr. Chairman. What I think is perhaps the worst thing about tonight is that a lot of parents probably watched and the problems after tonight haven't gotten any smaller for them, that parents are still in trouble and that they are looking at the future with fear and trembling. I really hope that there will be a day as soon as possible when that is no longer the case. Mr. Chairman. It is very specific about solving the problems of these parents, but we also have a broader political challenge to solve this culture of institutionalized distrust of the government towards citizens. That's a lot to ask. There are many areas where we need to adapt to this. Mrs Ploumen and I have a number of ideas on this, which we have tabled in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that citizens should not be treated with mistrust by the public authorities and should always be aware of the urgent individual effects of legislation and regulation by including safeguards in all laws and regulations, such as a hardness clause or discretionary power;]] [[points out that the legal status of citizens should be strengthened, at least by making sufficient structural resources available to social lawyers in the spirit of the opinion of the Van der Meer Committee;]] [[Notes that racism must be eliminated as soon as possible, at least by stopping using discriminatory algorithms;]] [[declares that the information position of the Chamber must be restored in line with the adopted motions-Omtzitt c.s. (28362, Nos. 25 and 26) and that the Chamber should always be the first to be informed about cabinet decisions;]] [[points out also that due attention should be paid to the implementation and impact of policies, at least for people's capacity for action in any legislative proposal;]] [[expresses the need to cherish the power of opposition in our democracy;]] [[Notes that we need to invest in a strong position of implementing organisations, the National Ombudsman, the General Court of Auditors, the Personal Data Authority and the Advisory Board review of regulatory pressure;]] [[points out that the funding of civil society organisations which constitute an important counter-power must be assessed on the quality of their programmes and on the conditions of grant and never on the level of support for government policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u934	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u935	A short question about one of the pronunciations, about social law. I can see that. One question is: are the investments made by Mr Klaver and Mrs Ploumen in the motion also aimed at ensuring that the innovations for the social lawyer and legal aid that are being considered can continue or that we do not close them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u936	Well, if you'll allow me, I wouldn't want to go through all the innovations right now. Innovation is always good, but there are also things you think: is this necessarily an improvement? I think it's part of the new culture that you also look critically at it with each other. But the most important point, and that is why we also say that it should be in the spirit of the Van der Meer Committee, is that there are actually insufficient means to shape the social lawyer properly and that this really puts accessibility at risk. For both of us, that is at the heart of what we are proposing here. That is something else than, for example, adopting all the opinions contained in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u937	Let me get this straight... I understand what Mr. Klaver is saying. We are not going to go through all the innovations here, we are not going to say yes or no to one of the innovations in the list, but we can generally continue to discuss innovations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u938	I think we should... when we talk about renewing things, you should always be open to innovation, but the core here really is to provide more structural funding for social law. That is the most important point we are making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u939	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u940	Mr. Chairman. The minutes give a staggering insight into what it says, but also into what it doesn't say. The Rutte III cabinet made major mistakes in the childcare allowance affair. There's gotta be another way. The government must be there again to protect civilians and not, as has happened, to hunt down innocent people. That is why my group, together with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, has put forward proposals for this. I say to Mrs Hermans just as sharply and precisely: innovation always sounds very attractive, but it is only attractive in the agenda of this motion if it also leads to better legal protection for people and not if it undermines it. Mr. Chairman. It has to be better and different, including for the affected parents. That is why I would like to sign the motion tabled by Mrs Marijnissen, but I also have a motion on it myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to give the status of decision to grant and reject the right to compensation of €30,000 against which an appeal and appeal are possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u941	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u942	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u943	Thank you. I still owe Mr Segers an answer. I can say that it is important that we look for ways in our legislation to take greater account of the human dimension and improve the review of that legislation by judges. There, a broader review by the administrative judge can be an option, as can, for example, work with a harrowing test, a hardness clause, or by including a possibility clause in the law. I would be careful not to choose one means as the solution, but we fully share the objective of fair and just legislation. Mr President, on the pause button, a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parents are entitled to compensation as soon as possible, but also to rest and stability;]] [[Whereas, with the amendment by Mr Lodders/Van Weyenberg, the Chamber adopted a pause button on the private debt for the affected parents, so that parents can catch their breath again;]] [[noting that the affected parents may not receive their compensation in time;]] [[noting that parents should not suffer from delays;]] [[calls on the government to find a solution for parents who have not been compensated unjustly and who are in trouble due to the lapse of the pause button, for example by extending the pause button,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hermans and Mr Jetten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u944	Finally, Mr President. It has been a long debate on the unprecedented injustice that parents have suffered and my group feels an unprecedented responsibility to do everything possible to correct that injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u945	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u946	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate confirms for the CDA the conclusions we had already drawn in January. The cabinet has rightly resigned and the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Social Affairs have acknowledged that it was not despite, but thanks to the questions of Pieter Omtzigt, Renske Leijten and others that the cabinet finally took action. These ministers have explained where their statements on MPs came from and in what context they have been made, such as frustration or concerns about implementation. But I'm still missing something in the Minutes and that stings. Because we only read one side, about how the commitment and input of MPs is assessed. We would have liked to have seen the other side, in these minutes, about the fact that the Members of Parliament were right. I have a very specific question for the three ministers I have just mentioned as part of the reflection. Shouldn't Omtzigt, Leijten and others have been right in that meeting, and couldn't this have prevented much more suffering? In addition to doing justice to the parents, which is priority number one, two and three, it is also important that we do not keep looking back. We also need to take steps to improve the rule of law, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the childcare allowance affair revealed several looming errors in the Dutch political and administrative system;]] [[Whereas, as a result, the rights and protection of Dutch citizens have been compromised;]] [[Whereas this has led to a break of trust between government and citizens and the need to restore this trust between government and citizens;]] [[Whereas, unlike in most other Member States of the European Union, Dutch courts are not able to assess laws adopted by the Chamber against the Dutch Constitution, while it lays down the main fundamental rights of citizens;]] [[Calls on the Government to submit, within one year, legislative proposals to delete Article 120 of the Constitution and to submit a framework law on supervision ensuring independence of supervisors;]] [[calls on the (new) government to carry out constitutional review;]] [[calls on the new government to forward the concrete proposals for a new social contract to the Chamber within one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Dassen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Simons, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Klaver, Mr Den Haan, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Jetten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u947	I'm glad your concerns aren't necessary, Mr. Chairman, but thank you very much. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the cabinet included possible precedents as an argument in the trade-offs on compensating for failures of government policies;]] [[calls on the government never to use possible precedents as an argument to remember those who have been undermined by failing government policies, compensation for what they are entitled to,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u948	And then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that coalition groups were regularly informed by the Cabinet in confidence about the surcharge affair;]] [[Whereas this creates an uneven playing field between coalition and opposition;]] [[Whereas all Members of Parliament have the same constitutional right to information;]] [[calls on the Government not to distinguish between coalition and opposition groups in relation to information provision and to always provide information equally and simultaneously,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u949	And because I had received a question on this from two groups, we do not want to say that there should never again be a coalition consultation. But purely in the case of such large files, the opposition must not have a fundamental deficit of information and ensure that both the coalition and the opposition are properly informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u950	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Jetten van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u951	Mr. Chairman. Many people have followed this debate this evening, including many parents who have been duped into the premium affair. This evening, from the left to the right, the Chamber stressed the importance of a quick solution for all these parents. The motions tabled by Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Ploumen underline this once again, and my group will support it. This evening, we have all had a thorough and firm discussion with the outgoing cabinet, not to make it clear where it went wrong, we knew that thanks to the excellent work of the parliamentary interrogation committee, but above all to get a clear picture of the intentions of the cabinet. I thank the rulers for their answers, for motivating them to make certain statements in the Council of Ministers and for the humility they have shown. It was in place. This debate also made it clear that we as a Chamber want to be better informed by this cabinet and we want to further strengthen dualism in the coming years, but also the democratic rule of law, so that citizens are not crushed but supported by the government they count on. That is why my group will be supporting a number of motions this evening. I have also made a number of contributions, including from Klaver and Ploumen, from Mrs Hermans and Mr Segers, who will also continue to support the democratic rule of law. It was Mr Koolmees, who quite rightly said this evening that we are faced not only with the Tax Administration but also with other implementing organisations. I therefore also think that many people who have watched this evening are looking at The Hague and asking themselves the question: can they work there to tackle all these other major challenges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u952	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u953	Mr. Chairman. We haven't made much progress today. The 20,000 crushed families have still not been compensated and all other problems have not been solved. The country is locked, the cabinet has made big mistakes and the end is not in sight. I hope that our call to get to work and stop playing these political games will be taken to heart. With regard to keeping all officials away because of the ukaze-Kok, of course, I thank Minister Ollongren for the answers and the adjustments to this ukaze-Kok in December. However, I believe that we could improve something in the short term, and I hope that the Minister will be sympathetic to that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs,]] [[Considering that Minister Ollongren has already considerably relaxed the ukaze-Kok in December 2020;]] [[Whereas it is important for MPs, both opposition and coalition, to have direct contact with officials;]] [[Whereas it is also important that officials can be held responsible for their work;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and, if so, how to change the position of officials so that a better balance can be struck with regard to the above considerations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u954	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u955	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u956	First of all, I found the debate between Mr Van Haga and Minister Ollongren very interesting. I think that once again this explained why all the changes made by the Minister are sensible. This was made extra sharp by the questions asked by Mr Van Haga. But with this motion, I think he's doing something crazy. I am very keen that I should be able to hold ministers or secretaries of state to account in this Chamber because they are responsible for everything that is happening in their department. This motion seems to be a little distant from that, because we are going to hold officials responsible. But I want to be able to hold those people who are in trade-k responsible and not civil servants who work for that whole government. Perhaps Mr Van Haga could explain exactly what he means by this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u957	Thank you for this question. I think that has already become somewhat clear in the little debate on the interruption. What is important is that there can be good contact with the officials on the one hand and that on the other hand the top officials can certainly be held to some extent responsible, so there is less urge to keep those people out of the wind. Of course, I fully agree with you that ultimately the people in trade union K are primarily responsible. That is why this motion also calls for consideration to be given to whether and, if so, how the balance sheet on these two points can be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u958	Thank you for that reply from Mr Van Haga. This explanation is already helping. There are, of course, thousands of officials watching this debate and wondering: can I still do my job freely? Those are all the officials who wake up every day because they want to contribute something to the Netherlands. Many of the officials who are in contact with the Chamber are not necessarily top officials. These are people who work as policy advisors or who are in the execution and maintain daily contact with the Chamber. If I understand Mr Van Haga correctly, he is referring specifically to the highest officials and not so much to officials who maintain regular contact with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u959	Well, it's a good thing you're making this clarification. So that could come from one of those little researches. I fully agree with you that this should not affect an ordinary civil servant who is simply doing his job. But when civil servants are so close to the fire and make such big mistakes in this kind of policy area that whole Cabinets fall, you may have a little more responsibility and you might as well be a little bit more in the wind. I hope that this can be investigated, that we can get an opinion on this and that it can be improved in such a way that we can get more contact with these officials and we can make it clear to the top officials: well, you are really responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u960	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By the way, I'd like to thank the people who do all that cleaning tonight. They do that because we are here for a very long time, when they might have wanted to do something else tonight. Mr. Chairman. BBB has requested a roll-call vote on two motions: the motion of censure tabled by Mr Azarkan and co-signed by BBB, Mrs Simons, Mr Van Haga and Mr Wilders, and a motion which I am about to table. This motion is about restoring the democratic process. This motion also concerns the victims of the premium affair. With this motion, BBB wants to ensure that the cabinet can no longer give opinions to the Chamber, and thus to coalition parties, which can be understood as voting advice. With this motion, people's representatives can vote without burden, but with their hearts. As far as we have been able to find, it is not the legal duty of a cabinet to appreciate, or not, motions which are then referred to here. In plain Dutch: to indicate approval. BBB believes that this motion can be a first step towards a new administrative culture that does justice to the independence of the House of Representatives, to democracy and thus to the Dutch people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, in particular, coalition parties may consider the so-called appreciation of the cabinet as a disguised voting opinion when submitting motions;]] [[Whereas there are no parties, party interests or coalition discipline in the Constitution;]] [[whereas the Constitution only speaks of representatives of the people;]] [[whereas the States-General, including the House of Representatives, represents the entire Dutch people and not the Cabinet;]] [[Whereas representatives of the people must vote without burden;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to give immediate opinions only on the content of motions submitted if the content is contrary to the law or other motions and could therefore be unenforceable, starting with this motion,]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u962	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Rutte said something very essential earlier in his reply, which grabbed me for a moment. He said no one goes into politics to do this to people. This is not about why people go into politics, it's about what they do once they get there. I hope no one in politics has the will to do this to people, but the question that comes to mind is: what then is it necessary to come to the conclusion that it is better to leave politics again? Mr. Chairman. We are about to vote on an important motion of censure against this entire cabinet. The motion can actually be seen as a kind of referendum, a referendum on the question: are we looking at the parents or are we looking away? Is the Chamber next to the parents of the supplement scandal, or is the Chamber facing them and next to the old mores of ego and image of this cabinet? We're gonna vote by roll call. I hope that every individual Member of Parliament will ask himself that question when they vote. In the second term, we have one and a half minutes to make our point again. Actually, I don't know how to fill that time. How many calls do we have to make? How many more horrible stories about parents do we have to hear? What does this Chamber need to make new leadership really be new leadership? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u963	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u964	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the rulers for their answer and for the long sitting. It was a long sitting for all of us, but I hope that this debate will help us to turn a page. We're getting a reflection from the Prime Minister on his own role. We'll just wait and see. It is important to work on a different administrative culture. I discussed this with the Minister for the Interior, including the diversity of the official summit. Thank you for your commitment to communication. We talked about strengthening the rule of law. I am under Mr Kuik's motion on that point. A healthier political culture in which we talk a lot about power and counterpower depends on all of us. We're all gonna have to work on that. Finally, Madam President, I have one motion on the implementation and human dimension of this implementation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the human dimension of legislation and policies is important;]] [[noting that the general principles of good administration are standardising the behaviour of the public authorities and dealing with the citizen;]] [[Considering that the investigation carried out by the Van Dam Committee shows that the administrative ruling has made a substantial contribution for many years to the maintenance of the non-binding implementation of the regulation of the child care allowance and the Bosman Committee has concluded that more attention should be paid to the human dimension in implementation;]] [[Whereas the caselaw clearly stated after the supplementing case that legislation should leave some room for the administration to do justice to the interests of citizens in the individual case;]] [[Whereas the general principles of good governance evidently did not have sufficient effectiveness in recent cases to justify the human dimension of these laws;]] [[Whereas the Jetten/Marijnissen motions (35510, No. 15), Van Brenk (35510, nr. 37) and Reverse c.s. (26448, No. 643) were adopted by the Chamber;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that all implementing organisations are given sufficient room for manoeuvre, including in the legislation on customisation and human size;]] [[points out that, after inventory and review of the laws and implementing organisations, sufficient resources should also be made available to increase the implementation capacity of the implementing organisations and the case law in such a way that they can actually achieve the identified task,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u965	Mr. Chairman. The victims of the surcharge scandal are still running up against walls. This must never happen. The most important thing is that they get back the money that was taken from them and are compensated for it. That is why my group supports Marijnissen's motion. But we must also work more actively to protect our democratic rule of law. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the obligation to provide information as laid down in Article 68 of the Constitution has been interpreted structurally too narrowly by successive Cabinets;]] [[noting that the proposals for interpretation of the obligation to provide information came exclusively from the cabinet;]] [[noting that in February 2020 the Chamber unanimously adopted two motions for resolutions on Article 68 of the Constitution;]] [[Whereas there is a debate on the interpretation of the content to be shared and the scope of the phrase "all information" in Article 68 of the Constitution;]] [[Whereas it is for the Court to assess the legitimate reasons for derogating from the phrase "all information' in Article 68 of the Constitution;]] [[Calls on the President of the Court to set up a broad committee to come forward with a proposal on how the Court considers that Article 68 of the Constitution should be interpreted;]] [[calls on this broad committee to also examine how this can be made verifiable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen, Mr Simons, Mr Kuik and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u966	Then there's another motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber, counterpower and power, is under pressure;]] [[noting that political discipline has become the norm and that pressure on individual representatives of the people is sometimes greatly increased to make members of parliament fit;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[calls on the Presidency to examine, taking into account the importance of transparency or, if so, how the Rules of Procedure can be supplemented by the possibility for Members of Parliament to vote in writing, if required, in accordance with the principle of "without burden', as enshrined in the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28362-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u967	Not about the first motion. In my view, Mrs Ollongren and Mr Dassen agree that we should apply Rule 68 better together, but I have a question on the second motion. Does Mr Dassen also mean anonymous votes by written votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u968	We have put in the motion 'while respecting the importance of transparency', because we also want to see whether there is a way to prevent it. At the end of the day, that balance will have to be made very well. That is why it is "or, and if so," as stated in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u969	I have a brief follow-up question. In my view, transparency also means that voters can put all 150 of us to account for our voting behaviour in this Chamber. Does Mr Dassen agree with me that it must always be clear to the electorate how an individual MP finally cast his vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u970	It is certainly important to be as transparent about this as possible. I do think it is important that we should be able to open up the discussion, given the discussion we are having today on this group discipline. Occasionally, people in backrooms are forced to vote the way they prefer not to vote. There should be a balance in that. That is why we are also saying that transparency is incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u971	That's not an answer. That's not a clear answer. Mr Jetten's question is quite right. I understand what you mean by that motion, but it cannot be that the voter will not be able to see how you or I or anyone voted. So is your answer that it must be visible at all times how people voted, or do you want to talk about it, negotiate it, or do I know anything? Or is it just clear? You can give a clear answer to that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u972	The starting point must always be that it must always be transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u973	That's not an answer. "Outline" means that you do not consider it impossible that it should not be transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u974	That is precisely what we would like to examine, namely whether there is any possibility of dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u975	Okay, then it's clear, but then I think it's self-evident, but of course I'm only speaking for my group. The motion is unsympathetic. Because that means that Mr Dassen does not rule out the possibility of voting anonymously and that people cannot see how Members of Parliament voted. That can never be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u976	That is why we believe it is important to ensure transparency. That is why we explicitly put that in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u977	Thank you. The cabinet has indicated that it needs 15 minutes to prepare the appreciation of the motions and the answer to a single question. That's why I'm suspending the sitting until 00:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u978	I ask the Members to take their seats. We're getting the Prime Minister's appreciation now. I would suggest that we suspend for 25 minutes after that. It has been stated that the political groups need time to discuss the motions. I would ask the group chairmen to come to me after the appreciation. I would like to make another point and have the opportunity now because all the group chairmen are present. First of all, I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u979	Mr. Chairman. There were a few more questions. One of Mr. Klaver's. I would still ask the question in our team here about the reflection on the period in November. Our conclusion is that it is true at the same time: yes, we have not deliberately tried to keep away information and it is also true that this is true for the whole dossier, and that is also true for November. I think it's both true at the same time and a fair conclusion. Then Mr Azarkan had asked whether the note on prosecution of criminal offences had been discussed in the Council of Ministers. No. As you know, we do not express our views on the deliberations, but I can say that it was not the subject of discussion at the Council of Ministers on 29 November and in the Council of Ministers on 6, 13 and 20 December. The note was published on November 29th. You can see that the note was not discussed in the Council of Ministers on 29 November. That doesn't make any sense either because it came in the afternoon. Also, on 2 December, the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Anne Mulder, stated that there was or was no intention to prosecute civil servants or administrators. The note was not discussed in the Ministerial Councils of 6, 13 and 20 December. Then there's the motions. The motions on the documents Nos. We will not appreciate 37, 38 and 39 because they are not towards the cabinet. The motion in part No. Forty makes Mrs Van Huffelen, like the one on Nos. 41 and 42. The motion in part No. 43 we will not appreciate, because it is not towards the cabinet. The same applies to the motion in part No. 44. The motion in part No. Mrs Van Huffelen, and that also applies to the motion for a resolution on item No. 45. 46. Then the motion to part No. 47. This motion is strictly also for the present government, because the word 'new' is one time in brackets, but we do not appreciate the motion in part No. 47 because it seems appropriate to us for the formation. And highly political, of course. Everything we do here is highly political, but it does not like the present cabinet. The motion in part No. 48 does Mr Koolmees. Then the motion to part No. 49. In view of Mrs Pouw-Verweij's explanatory statement at the time of the submission, following questions from me, I do not know who, as far as we are concerned, is the opinion of the Chamber. But that is also because of the explanatory statement. The motion in part No. 50 will appreciate Mrs. Ollongren. The motion in part No. 51. In the spirit of that motion, no appreciation. The motion in part No. It is up to Mr Koolmees and the motion for a resolution on documents Nos 52 to 52. Nor do I give any appreciation to 53 and 54, because these are again requests to Chamber or Bureau. My suggestion would be to give one of us the floor now for further answers. First Kajsa Ollongren, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u980	Mr Dassen first has a request concerning his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u981	I'd like the motion in part no. 54 the lack of clarity as to the question of transparency. It is incredibly important to be able to guarantee this, so we are happy to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u982	At the request of Mr Dassen, I propose his motion (28362, No. 54). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u983	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u984	Thank you. I should like to comment on the motion for a resolution on item No. 50 by Mr Van Haga on the amended guidelines for relations between officials and members of Parliament. I am glad that Mr Van Haga and others have said that this is progress. In this more relaxed relationship that we want to create between officials and MPs, I think it is very important that we maintain the system of ministerial responsibility. That is why we are framing it as it has now been proposed. Mr Van Haga's motion is linked to two thoughts. He felt that civil servants should be able to be held responsible for their work. This is, of course, also the case in the official organisation, where the minister is in charge in the political sense and the sg is in charge of its administration. I cannot really imagine that Mr Van Haga has a great deal of objection to this. If an official could also be accountable in a political sense, he would actually be politically accountable. Then we go to political appointments, and that does not go well with the system we have here. Officials aren't invisible. Officials are becoming more visible. But we still have to distinguish the roles. You must therefore appeal to us at work on the basis of ministerial responsibility and let the officials do the work in the service of that same ministerial responsibility. In short, I would like to discourage the motion, but I would like to see with the Chamber how we can achieve that relationship well and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u985	The motion in part No. 50 is not recommended. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u986	That surprises me a little, because the motion is asking precisely how this problem, which has arisen a little because these officials have been kept out of the wind, can be solved and whether this can be done by shifting the balance slightly. It seems to me that we're pretty much on the same page. I don't quite understand why this is being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u987	Because it contradicts two principles. One is the starting point of the ministerial responsibility laid down in the Constitution, Articles 42 and 44 with the Minister at the head of the department. As a result, the Chamber can always address the Ministers and the Secretary of State. The other consideration is that, precisely if you want a more relaxed relationship to be established and contacts between officials and MPs made easier, it is also pleasant for officials to know what frameworks apply to this, because it creates a safe environment in which they can do their job. If the motion sees that officials who do something wrong are called upon to do so, in the end even in criminal terms, that is of course already happening. It doesn't need to be changed for that. I see it's a research motion, but I think that point is sufficiently framed. I do not see much room to move in without compromising the principles I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u988	I fully understand that ministerial responsibility. You're already in the process of relaxing. The aim is to avoid the kind of things that we have seen now, which lead to less information going to the Chamber, and to include it in that relaxation. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u989	Then my suggestion to Mr Van Haga would be: let us then work with the lead as it stands today. We have said that the cabinet wants to talk to the Chamber to see how it can be done better. That is what the officials want, by the way. Then we'll work from there. But that is something other than what is being asked in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u990	My suggestion would be: give the motion judgment Chamber and just go hard at work to resolve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u991	You disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u992	It's the last one, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u993	Thank you. I think I will give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs. He also had one motion. The Minister of Finance first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u994	Mr President, thank you. A question had been asked to the Prime Minister, Mr Koolmees and myself by Mrs Kuik. I'd like to answer it on behalf of the three of us. Her question was: can I see that there is no balanced picture coming out of those minutes? Quite rightly, she is asking for this. The answer is, of course, "no." If you, as our conviction, had been theoretically able to have had minutes of everything the cabinet had to discuss, then a much more nuanced picture would have emerged. These minutes do not contain a number of points. We find that unfortunate and uncomfortable. One: the excellent work of Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Leijten and others to get the bottom of this. Two: how much more often in cabinet circles but also in the Ministry of Finance has been talked about all aspects of this case, in particular doing justice to parents. That is not in the Minutes, but has been discussed very often, also in discussions I have been to myself, and much more often by the Secretary of State. Three: what would be clear is that Mr De Jonge, but also myself, have recorded it very often for the points of Pieter Ommzigt, who were about the content. Four: I myself did so myself the other day, and that is not true of De Jonge... when it comes to raising awareness within the Ministry, but also within the Cabinet, of the wider problem at the Tax Office. It is right for Mrs Kuik to ask. It is theoretical, of course, but this image would have been very different, if all this had been recorded. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u995	Thank you. Then we will clean for a moment and then I will give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u996	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 48 of Pouw-Verweij, Van der Staaij, Van der Plas, Van Haga and Den Haan argue that precedent working should never be an argument. For the sake of clarity, we have never allowed budgetary considerations to lead in order not to compensate parents. Precedent effect is also not the argument not to compensate parents. Precedent effect is, however, an argument to look at the implications for policy or implementation. In that sense, you cannot always carry out the motion. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Dassen and Mrs Kuik made a very sympathetic motion. As you know, I have recently sent Work on Implementation to the Chamber and also the cabinet response to the Bosman Commission, the TCU. Very recently, last week, I sent you a letter on the financial consequences of the Work on Implementation. That's about 735 million euros. So it has considerable financial consequences if you really want to create the space for customized counters in the state-wide implementation, so when it comes to the large execution organizations, such as UWV, the Tax Administration, DUO, and another one I've forgotten. I am very sympathetic to this trajectory. I've got all the data ready. Only I have one problem. The motion states "calls on the government to ensure." That requires financial consequences. However, in the operative part thereafter, it says "pronounced." That is up to the Chamber itself, and that is about financial resources. May I put it in a way that I find the goal very sympathetic, but that I cannot reserve money in missionary status, and thus bind it to the formation? It's a speech motion, so it's up to your room. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u997	Yes. Thank you. We're gonna clean up for a minute and then I'm gonna give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u998	Mr. Chairman. I had one more question open. That was a question from Mrs Den Haan. She asked if there was help at local level for all those affected. That's right. The agreement has been made with the VNG that all municipalities provide support and assistance in each municipality. Then I would like to proceed with the appreciation of the motions. I shall begin with two motions, both on the subject of the moratorium. That's the motion in part No. 40 and the motion in part No. 46. Your Chamber has indicated that there is a desire for a solution for the parents for whom we now see no indication of the right to €30,000, but for whom that right may arise, as soon as we make an integral assessment. For them, the moratorium continues. Since the moratorium expires on 1 May, we need at least a practical solution to this, because we ultimately need a law for a moratorium. I would suggest that we at least get to work to ensure that these parents are reviewed by us as soon as possible if they get into trouble. Where there is an acute case, we will bring forward their assessment and if there are problems around debts, we will help them, together with municipalities. That's to make sure these parents don't get in trouble. Then the follow-up question is whether there is also a need for a legal provision for the period when we have not yet fully assessed these parents. Making such a law is not easy. I am also not sure that we could arrange it on time and soon enough. Then there are those two motions. In one motion, the motion in part no. 40 is said to be: make sure that pause button goes through. For that the law is almost immediately needed and we do not have that law. In the other motion, the motion in part no. 46 is requested to see if we can find a solution for the parents. We advise against the motion in part No. 40, because it requires an immediate law that is not there at the moment. The other motion, the motion in part No. Forty-six, I would like to give a ruling to the Chamber, because it will enable us, starting with a practical solution, to proceed with a different solution, perhaps to help these parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u999	Before you vote on the next motion, there is another question from Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1000	Sure, about the motion in part No. 40. Of course, it doesn't just fall out of the sky. The Secretary of State says that there is a need for a legislative change and that this is complicated. That's just the question. Moreover, the SP Group has already asked three times to settle this. So if you'd prepared that, maybe the law amendment would have been there by now. The only alternative we see is to take over those people's debts. As far as we are concerned, however, it cannot be the result that people who were subsequently entitled to that €30,000 will be in trouble again. That is what is threatening to happen in this way. So I would ask the Secretary of State to make a little more effort than to say that a legislative amendment is not going to work because it is too complicated, and then take another, much more non-binding motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1001	Perhaps it is a good thing to say that your party was not in favour of the original amendment in which this morgue was arranged. Other parties were in favour of this and the moratorium was created. Both motions ask to ensure that people do not get into trouble. I agree with you and I would like to take care of that. But I'd like to do that in a way that works as immediately as possible. In any case, I need a practical solution. So I just wanted to suggest that we go down that route. We'll talk again on May 27th. If more is needed, then we can also talk about whether we should somehow embed it in a law. But I really hope that a pragmatic solution will help parents sooner and sooner. Hence the appreciation I gave it. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 41, which is actually addressed to my fellow Member, Mr Filipino. We have sent letters, which we are also sending, a total of 270,000, to people on the FSV list. The motion asks whether we can immediately indicate in those letters what reason these people are on that list. This is not feasible at this rate for the Tax Administration, also because we have said that we are going to do so in the short term. So we are going to send out these letters and our proposal is that we can also make sure that parents can contact us if they want to know more. Then it is also indicated for what reason they are listed on the FSV list and how they are listed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1002	So the problem is that people are on a blacklist without them knowing, often when they have done nothing wrong. Then there will be a letter stating that they are on that blacklist and then they will have to find out for themselves. I spoke to someone on one of those blacklists yesterday. He had called and was simply told: no, you will not have access to it; you have had no disadvantage, so we are not going to tell you why you are on that blacklist. That's impossible, isn't it? It does not seem normal to me anymore that when people are on that list in such an annoying way, they receive such an annoying letter about it. It is therefore nice to report those people for what reason they have ever been on that blacklist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1003	I would just like to say two things about this. Your Chamber has made it very clear that it wants to make it clear to people in the short term whether or not they are on that list. Mr Vijlbrief has promised to do so and to ensure that these people receive a letter as soon as possible. That is not possible if we also have to indicate by letter exactly what that is about, because it concerns 270,000 people. We can't do that à la minute. Of course, we would like to give people information and to speak. We want them, if they've got that letter and they want information about it, to get that information and to be told in what way they're on this list. Or, rather, what's the information on them on that list? They can get that information. What should not be possible is what you say, namely that when someone calls, they say: we are not going to give you information. That is precisely why we have opened up this phone number and why we are sending people that letter. They can actually ask that question and get an answer to it. That's exactly what we can do. Unfortunately, it is not possible to send all these people an individual letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1004	The motion in part No. 41 is therefore dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1005	The motion in part No. 41 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1006	There is a question from Mr Azarkan on this motion. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1007	Yeah, a quick question. I thought that in our discussions with Mr Vijlbrief we came to the conclusion that a number of data of 150,000 people are stored in the vault. You just said 270,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1008	If I said something wrong, I should go back there. Would it be okay if I found out for you? I don't have the exact numbers there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1009	The second thing the Chamber asked for in the motion is to inform the people, but not so that they are only informed that they are on a blacklist, so they panic. They're supposed to get a little more info, so they know why they're on it and what they're up to. That was the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1010	I understand that very well. We have already sent letters and then there are people who, after they have received the letter, call and ask what exactly is going on, why they insisted, what was the occasion, etcetera, etcetera. What we have also indicated in the letters is that they can ask us those questions and that they can contact us about them. That's what parents are sorry, I'm saying parents, but they're not just parents; they're people on the FSV list called "FSV" have done. We'll give them that information as best we can. But perhaps it would be a good idea if I asked my colleague to inform you in writing, because I do not have the number at the moment. Then it becomes clearer how the process works, how many people it is about and how people can get access to exactly what's about them in SFV. In any case, we are much more extensive in trying to figure out what the consequences can be for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1011	That's very nice, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1012	If I understand correctly, it's kind of a general note that they're on that list. But the question is, how do you make people know their own situation? There are also people who send me a message saying: I have never applied for fees, I am not one of those parents, how the hell do I get on a list?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1013	We make a written response, so that it is clear how we do it with people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1014	Mr Jetten and Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1015	When I listen to the Secretary of State, she shares the wish of the Chamber of Deputies, as expressed by Mrs Marijnissen................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Secretary of State only warns that it is about so many cases that it is not possible to quickly put that one word out of Mrs Marijnissen's motion, because we are still trying for months to figure out why people have been on those lists in some cases. Secretary of State File Letter has also indicated this. I understand that the Secretary of State says that she cannot offer the speed that Mrs Marijnissen is asking for in that first letter. However, may I conclude that the Secretary of State does say that in the end every duped has the right of inspection to find out why he or she came on that list? Perhaps Mrs Marijnissen and the Secretary of State can find each other with this explanation, namely that the speed will not always succeed, but that the cabinet will do everything in its power to give that inspection in the end. I share Mrs Marijnissen's objective, but I also want it to be done carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1016	The Secretary of State and then Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1017	It is certainly our intention that people should not only be told that they are on such a list, but also with what information, and not least, what the possible consequences may have been for them. For example, when it comes to fees, we know that people were on the FSV. As a result, they could not participate in debt relief. They were denied. They were treated like a fraud. It is our intention to give, as soon as possible, to those who wish to do so, the reasons why they are on this list, what information there is and what consequences this may have. In the discussions with Mr Filipino, you indicated that we want all these people to receive such a letter in the very near future. The combination of the numbers of people we're talking about with individual letters, we don't make it. The idea is still that people indeed... We can do it, if I may read the motion in this way: not only do we want people to know that they are on the letter as soon as possible, but we also want them, if they so wish, to hear exactly what the problem was. "So fast" is not at the same rate as we can send the letters now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1018	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1019	In fact, we are concerned that it is not enough for people to receive only a letter stating that they are on the blacklist and nothing else. We understand that it is not possible to do all that at once. We are also prepared to remove the word "quickly" from the motion if we have a guarantee that people will not only be told that they are on that letter, but will also be actively told why they are on that letter. It should not be said: yes, if you want to know something, please call. Then we get the same system, whereby people are sent from the cabinet to the wall. We understand that not all of this can be done in this week à la minute, if only it happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1020	I cannot answer that either, because you really need to consult Mr Filipino on that. You say you want to let all those people know individually. We assume that there are also people who say... This is also apparent from the first letters we sent. The response to this is relatively low. There are relatively few people who say: I really want to know. If you say that we really need to let all those people know, then we have a much bigger task to do. I don't know if that can be achieved. I think it is right that we should indicate what we can do and how we intend to do so, and that you should look with Mr Vijlbrief in the next debate to see if there are any further steps to be taken. Otherwise, I'm going to make a commitment that I don't think can just be realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1021	There will probably also be a written response on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1022	That's this motion. I'll make sure we state our approach. I understand very well what Mrs Marijnissen's wish is, so I will ask Mr Vijlbrief to give the answer on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1023	I think the Secretary of State may have already said what I wanted to propose. In fact, I have the following request to Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Van Huffelen. I would ask Mrs Marijnissen to hold the motion, with the other Secretary of State for Finance explaining in writing what is possible and what is not possible prior to the debate. Then the Chamber can still vote through the Marijnissen motion, if we consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1024	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs Marijnissen and see if she's willing to hold the motion. We are supposed to vote on the motions today, hence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1025	I understand the answer. I'm sure that's why Mr. Jetten's attempt was made. Above all, I hope that there will be a solution. I do think it is important to vote on it tonight, simply because it was a previous statement to fully inform people. You'll only get one of those letters on your mat: you're blacklisted. People are panicking. I really don't think you can make it to send people a letter, but not tell them why they're blacklisted. So I'm kind of attached to that after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1026	Clear. Then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1027	Then at this moment remains...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1028	Appreciation remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1029	...the appreciation that we dissuade this motion. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 42. That motion calls for all the victims to be put on number one. Of course, I very much agree with that. I have said more about it in the debate, but, of course, the parents must be at the forefront. I'm going to work very hard on that, together with the implementation organization. Of course, I am going to inform your Chamber about this transparently, in good news and in bad news, in everything that happens throughout the operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1030	Judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1031	Judge Room, then. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 45, with the question of whether there is an objection and appeal, or whether this can be granted to compensate for the €30,000. I've indicated that that's possible. People can object and appeal if they want. It doesn't have to be, because we're going to judge all those people in full anyway. But if people want to, they can. I also promised to communicate that to the parents involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1032	Judge Room, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1033	Judge Room, indeed. Sorry, you're helping me very well. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 46. I just said something about that when we started the motion on part No. 40. The motion in part No. 46 I would like to give judgment Chamber. It calls on us to see how we can find a solution for parents who may be in trouble because they will not yet receive compensation, but perhaps at a later date. The motion in part No. 46 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1034	Judgment Chamber for the motion in part No. 46.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1035	Yes. Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1036	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-29-tweedekamer-5.u1037	We are going to vote by group first and then we are going to vote by roll call. A suspension of about 25 minutes has been requested. I suggest we continue at 1:45 a.m. It's nice to have someone present in box K during the votes. I'll see who's gonna be in "K" later. I would ask the group chairmen to come to me on a very different subject. I should also like to look at Mr Hoekstra and Mrs Kaag. Would you like to join me, along with the other group chairmen?
