ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u1	We are going to start with part two of the external trade and development cooperation budget debate (35925-XVII).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u2	A warm welcome to the Minister, who is going to defend a budget for the first time. We wish him every success. The Minister has an introduction and then six themes. We're trying to avoid the word "blocks." Mr Gijs van Dijk is ill. We wish him well. He will be replaced by Mrs. Piri. Bring him "health," we'd say. The Minister has the floor. Can we do five interruptions in this government's term? I see everyone's excited. Five's fine. So that's five comments or five. questions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks also to the members of your Chamber for their contribution in the first term. Before I answer the questions I have been asked, I would like to briefly address the current context in which international trade and development cooperation take place. In particular, I would like to comment on two developments which have a global impact on both international trade flows and developing countries. Then I'm talking about the corona crisis and the rise of China. Let me start with the corona crisis. The impact on developing countries is enormous. They've been hit by the pandemic. Many of the SDGs have fallen behind and inequalities between and within countries have increased. About 100 million additional people have fallen into poverty, putting us back at the level of 2016. Regular health care has been forced into tribulation by covid. As a result, much progress has been made, for example in the areas of sexual reproduction, health and rights. The fight against COVID-19 has endangered the fight against other chronic diseases, leading, for example, to the death of 1.5 million people from tuberculosis. There is also a significant increase in unplanned pregnancies and maternal and child mortality. The massive closure of schools in developing countries led to considerable educational and teenage gaps. Take Uganda, for example, where about 250,000 teenage girls got unwanted pregnant. As a result of the corona crisis, there is also a loss of work and income, particularly for young people and women, resulting in malnutrition. The impact of the covid crisis was also high on international trade. Although the world trade system proved broadly resilient, world trade is now recovering rapidly, the crisis revealed serious vulnerabilities in the value chains. Supply lines were interrupted, including for medicines and medical equipment needed to combat the pandemic. Other sectors are also experiencing distortions. They have their origins in the covid crisis, but are often exacerbated by other factors. Examples include logistics bottlenecks around world ports and hamster behaviour of some commodity manufacturers. This results not only in the price increases of container transport, but also in shortages of, for example, chips, which hampers the production of all kinds of other goods from cars to central heating boilers. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, the covid pandemic has highlighted China's increasingly prominent position on the world stage. China is not only crucial for world trade. In developing countries too, China is increasingly present, especially in Africa. The Chinese Belt and Road Initiative is the geostrategic framework within which infrastructure projects are set up. As a result, developing countries have increasingly high, often non-transparent debts to China, increasing their dependence. The debt burden is also an obstacle to sound economic development. The Chinese commitment, which goes beyond infrastructure, has little regard for human rights and democratic principles. Then I'm still softly expressing myself. Mr. Chairman. Both developments, covid and China, force ambitious international policies. With regard to covid, it is very important in the short term, and I shall come back to this later in my speech, that as many vaccines as possible, and the funding for them, are donated through COVAX to increase vaccination rates in developing countries quickly. In addition, we should bet on what is called "country dinnerss." In other words, the capacity of developing countries to actually use these vaccines. In the medium term, it is necessary for developing countries to develop their own production capacity, including with a view to new pandemics. Of course, at such a next pandemic, the supply chains of necessary goods must continue to function smoothly. I therefore hope that effective and concrete agreements can be reached at the WTO Ministerial meeting next week in Geneva. And, of course, we must continue to use development cooperation to strengthen the health system in developing countries, so that basic care is ensured. The challenges China is facing us are complex. The country is both a partner, a competitor and a system rival. The public debate has recently focused on the latter two: system-rival and competitor. However, we must not forget that other role, that of partner, because of climate change and because China is an important global player and the prosperity of the Netherlands depends to a large extent on it. These interdependences in an unfriendly environment make the call for strategic autonomy in Europe louder, and rightly so. Strategic dependencies are increasingly used for geopolitical purposes. It is therefore essential to retain and strengthen control of our economy and society. To this end, the cabinet is making a great deal of effort, as set out for example in the letter on strategic dependencies which I sent to your Chamber this week in response to the Alkaya/Weverling motion, the Sjoerdsma motion and the Brekelmans motion. We are, of course, still in favour of an open and rules-based global economy. But that system, which we benefit greatly from, must also serve the solution of challenges that the world collectively stands for: combating inequality, promoting human rights and achieving global climate goals and the SDGs. It is my firm conviction that we must act on this at European level. With the European economic power, the European Union can become a major player on the world stage, alongside the United States and China. I am therefore pleased that the European Commission has made and will make several proposals to reduce these strategic dependencies. Think, for example, of the plan to set up an anti-coercion instrument to enhance the EU's geopolitical capacity to act. I hope that this proposal from the Commission will be on the table in the very near future. And then there is work going on. Commission President Von der Leyen has already made a statement on this subject to a Global Gateway, a European connectivity strategy, which, unlike the Belt and Road Initiative, is based on human rights democracy and transparency. Mr. Chairman. This is the background to our policy and hence the commitment to this budget. I would like to divide the answers to the many questions into a number of themes. Maybe I could mention that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u4	We'll write with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u5	I told you there were six of them, but there are eight of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u6	The other two, you can do it on your own time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u7	Fine. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the ODA budget, then about climate finance, then about export credit insurance, because many questions have been asked about it, and then about trade promotion and SMEs. Many questions have been asked about this too. Then comes of course COOVID-19. Then there will be an important issue that has been a great deal of concern: civil society and the so-called civic space. Then I will deal with the situation in Yemen and Ethiopia, among other things, under the subject of various subjects. Finally, I will deal with international corporate social responsibility, a subject on which we will have a separate debate next week. I shall, of course, deal with the amendments and any motions in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u8	Very good. Then we'll know the track record. Mr Van der Lee already has a question about your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u9	Yeah, about the introduction, though covid comes back in a separate block. The Minister rightly stresses that the economic impact on developing countries is enormous. They have an average shrinkage of 5.5% GNP and little prospect of getting out of it quickly, as the richer countries can. In the light of that, I have a double question. This week, on the initiative of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the European Parliament expressed the view that the European Commission should make a commitment to the TRIPS Waiver at the WTO Summit, the summit you just mentioned. Can I assume that the Netherlands fully supports this? And is the Netherlands, because of the huge economic impact with the challenge of vaccination that still exists in those countries, prepared to increase, with or without additional resources or budget shift, the fair share needed for the refrigerated transport to place vaccines in places where this is necessary? Compared to other Member States, we do not deliver our fair share. Our eastern neighbours alone do double and other countries do even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u10	These were points I would have liked to come back to in my further speech, but I am very happy to do so now. First of all, the point of the waver also comes back to the Piri motion adopted by the Chamber. I have called and advocated this at various meetings, including in the European Union. I have noticed that, unfortunately, the support for this has so far been very modest. In fact, there are important European countries that are failing. This means that there is no progress in the European Union's position to get that waver off the ground. I would like to say that we must also ask ourselves at the moment whether this waver is still the real problem. We must not forget that Mrs Piri made that motion a long time ago. At that time it looked like such a waver could play a very important role. In the meantime, we are many months ahead and around 1.5 billion vaccines are produced per month. According to the WHO, that is enough to achieve the objectives set by the WHO. At the same time, and with that I come to your second point, Mr President, you are absolutely right that the major problem, the most serious bottleneck at the moment, is that the vaccines that are there do not reach the people. This is a very complex issue, which has to do with, among other things, the nature of vaccines and distribution. It also has to do with the willingness of people to be vaccinated and even the willingness of some countries to accept the vaccinations. It is therefore a complex problem, which the Netherlands is fully committed to. I always find fair share a difficult criterion, because what is your fair share? But when I see what the Netherlands is doing at the moment, I see that we are spending huge amounts of money on that element of the country retreatss, which I mentioned in my introduction. If I compare that with other countries, I really have to underline that, and the picture is wrong that we would not do enough. In fact, we are currently spending more money on that element than on vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u11	Clear. Mr Hammelburg on this point? No, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the first theme, and that is the ODA budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u13	Yeah, and I'll just say that we do the interruptions after every theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u14	I'll tell you when I'm about done with a theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Van Haga on the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. That's because in the introduction we discussed China in detail, which you didn't see coming back in other cubes. We see that China is a major problem for the Netherlands and for SMEs: state aid, patents that are being violated, labels that are being falsified. Of course, we all order from AliExpress, who delivers things for an apple and an egg. I hear the Minister say that we should preferably deal with all this at EU level. Can we not, as the Netherlands, as the sixteenth economy of the world, limit certain things by regulating them ourselves, such as VAT, import duties and the General Postal Convention? You know what I mean: can't we do anything ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u17	I fully understand what Mr Van Haga means and the answer is no. The European Union is concerned with import duties and VAT. In fact, I think that if we, as the Netherlands, were to do something towards China, we would not be strong enough to do that. If we do that in a European context, we stand strong with the big modern market we have, and then we can make a fist. One of the elements on the agenda in Geneva next week, precisely because of the state aid from China, is the stealing of intellectual property. I believe that the WTO can play an extremely important role in disciplineing China. Of course, the European Union is also developing a trade policy instrument to act against this. But if we are going to do that as the Netherlands alone, then we will achieve nothing. Then all we get is difficult situations. We must do this in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u18	I don't know how many interruptions we have. That might be useful to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u19	Five.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u20	Five. I'm already working on my second; that's kind of annoying. The WTO is, of course, a long-term issue, with little progress being made. With many of these supranational organisations, it sounds very nice on paper, but there is actually little progress towards China. Putting all our cards on it seems a bit grabbed. Okay, the EU is about VAT and import duties. That is, of course, because we are members of the EU, where you can differ in mind whether that is useful in this context. Surely you as the Netherlands should be able to do certain things, such as using tenders in a different way and better monitoring of state aid? Surely there are things that we can do ourselves, in addition to all the EU things, that can make it better for our SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u21	State aid and public procurement are all European. There too, the European Union is working on an instrument. So I am not putting all my cards on the WTO, I am putting my cards on the European Union first and foremost. That's where we can develop real power. I am glad that we are still members of the European Union. Look at what happens in the UK after Brexit. You have read in the newspaper today a great appeal from British business to restore trade quickly, because the effects of Brexit on British companies are disastrous. Mr President, may I continue with my speech? Thank you. First of all, on the ODA budget, because some attention has been paid to this in the interventions. I am pleased to hear that Labour Party, GroenLinks, Volt, ChristenUnion, CDA and SGP have also drawn attention to the size of the ODA. This argument is obvious, given the effects of covid, the growing impact of climate finance, the humanitarian crisis and so on. The cabinet has therefore already made a move towards this 0.7% in recent years. Without this commitment, the ODA rate would have been only 0.48% by 2020. Fortunately, by 0.59%, we are moving towards 0.7%. This cabinet invested one billion dollars and corrected the cash drawer of a previous cabinet in previous years. Fortunately, the trend in the reduction of the ODA budget has been broken. This cabinet added EUR 500 million last year. The question of how far we can move towards an ODA standard of 0.7% in the coming years is really up to a new cabinet. We will therefore have to be patient for a very short time. Mr. Chairman. I come to a point that I would also like to deal with in this context. Mrs Van Weerdenburg asked about the multiannual funding of UN organisations. These UN organisations all play an important role in their own field. The contributions are linked to the multiannual strategic plans of those organisations. That process returns every few years. On the basis of the new strategic plans of UN organisations for the years 2022-2025, the Netherlands has made a new general voluntary contribution. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Weerdenburg and others, including Mr Klink, spoke about the importance of combating corruption and fraud. Of course, I fully agree with that. The use of prevention and the follow-up of malpractices has been further improved and increased in recent years. I refer to the letter I sent to the Chamber on this subject this week, at the request of Mr Klink. I am pleased to say that only 0.12% of the well-founded reports are part of the total budget. Fortunately, it is not that bad, but we must, of course, ensure that even that very small share is reduced even further. Mr President, I have come to the end of this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u22	I like that you're making some arm movements to mark this moment. Mrs. Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u23	The Minister has not answered my questions about those obligations. What he told me, I've been able to read it myself. Because I had asked... I understand they've re-entered for the next few years, but my question was: was that necessary? Did it end this year? How's that procedure going? The written reply shall state the procedure. An application for funding is made and there is an assessment framework. Is that going the same way with this kind of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u24	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u25	Can you indicate which other organisations are involved? For four have been mentioned as examples in the reply, but I would like to see the full list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u26	I am not prepared to do so at the moment, but I would like to send it to you in a different way, either in writing or perhaps in the second term. I need to take a look. I'm not ready for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u27	It would be good if we could do that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u28	We're gonna make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u29	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I hadn't seen the letter about the malpractices before my first term, but now I have. I broadly welcome the answer, but I do have a request for the Minister. It is true that there are very few cases and relatively small amounts, but in the case of amounts above €50,000, my request is for the Chamber to be actively informed about this rather than once a year with a large list. In practice, it concerns three or four cases, but it would be nice if we knew that actively. Anything about fraud and malpractice just needs to be crushed. So that's a request to the Minister. I have another request on this subject, Mr President, and I am doing so in the same interruption, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, about the Palestinian NGOs. In your reply to my questions on this subject, you stated that you now do not have any more information on this matter. I would ask you to actively inform the Chamber itself if you have any positive or negative information about this, because now it is still a bit in the air whether there are terrorist organisations or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u30	By "you," you mean the minister, right? Then you don't mean me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u31	Sorry, I don't mean the chairman. I'll make that request to the Minister. So I have two requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u32	As far as the malpractices are concerned, I have promised that we will report more than once a year. With regard to those amounts above €50,000, I say for sure. I'll see to it that I report any malpractices that really exceed a certain limit to the Chamber in the interim. And of course, I will share information on Palestinian NGOs with the Chamber as soon as I have them. In individual cases, this may take a very long time, because of course that information needs to be carefully looked at and also appreciated and weighed. Once I do, I will share that information with the Chamber immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u33	The Minister spoke about the development budget, which is currently 0.53%. He says: plans to raise it to 0.7% are up to a next cabinet. But we hear that promise to increase the development budget for years, whereas historically it has never been so low. In addition, we also discussed the climate summit in Glasgow, where we discussed climate finance. Climate funding from the Netherlands is still being paid from the development budget, even today. So there are two problems: the budget is too low and climate finance should simply recover. Couldn't the Minister now come up with an investment plan for a next cabinet? Then a next cabinet can decide whether to continue, but at least there will be a plan to comply with the European and international agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u34	I told you, I find all this very interesting. There is no doubt that plans are being made in departments, but we are now in a missionary status. I hope that there will be a new government very soon, and then we will have to wait and see whether or not the new coalition will go to 0.7%. At the moment, I am bound by the current coalition agreement. We can debate this for a very long time, but I cannot change that now. Then there is the issue of climate finance. In fact, Mrs Teunissen mentioned additional and additional climate financing in her first term. That is a whole debate and we can also talk about it endlessly. I can't change that. I still believe that we are making a considerable effort in terms of climate: 660 million in public money. Of course, private money will also be added to this. So I do not think that we are doing a bad thing in this respect worldwide, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u35	I think the Minister's role in this is a little too modest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u36	I'm very modest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u37	Yeah, I know, but I think it's a little too modest. I'm sure that's not for unwillingness. We see, for example, that there are many changes to be made in agriculture. That is what reports are for, and from the Ministry there are all kinds of advice available. But when it comes to the development budget, the Minister says: "Well, maybe plans are being made at the Ministry to actually increase the budget to 0.7%, but that's what the next cabinet is about. I don't have that right now, and I'm not gonna do that right now." It would be very nice if plans were made now and the Chamber would be informed accordingly. So maybe the Minister could share that with us. So it would be very nice if there were something that a cabinet could go on with, that something would be shared with a plan that would show how we are going to ensure that we meet the obligations we have, including in the interests of the earth and of future generations. Can the Minister at least ensure that there is something that we can then move on with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u38	Patience is a good thing. So I really think I have to disappoint Mrs Teunissen at the moment, and I hope there will be a new coalition agreement very soon. Then she can read what that new coalition is up to at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Van der Lee, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr President, can I continue or...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u41	No, there's still a lot of people on hold for you. And not the first of the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u42	And then we're only on the first theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u43	Yeah, wet your chest. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to talk about a coalition, the future and 0.7%. I am going to talk about the responsibility of this minister at this time when we are in a global pandemic. The Netherlands spends tens of billions on combating them and dealing with the economic consequences. The Netherlands really does not give fair share. Sweden currently spends €25 per capita. The Norwegians give €22, the Germans give €12 and the Netherlands give €4 per capita. That's really not a fair share. I also advocated, in my first term, that in this budget, for which this minister is responsible, 300 million extra be devoted to combating the pandemic in developing countries. That's the same amount as in the General Reviews, extra funds are allocated to the Defense Department. Why isn't the Minister making a big deal out of that? We can work that out with each other now. Coalition negotiations are irrelevant. That could happen today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u45	It's always nice to draw comparisons. Again, the discussion about a fair share is a tricky one. What's a fair share? Sweden is at the top of the list, but I can also mention countries at the bottom of the list. If you look at the total list, you'll see that we're not doing bad at all. I repeat what I said: at the moment we are doing a lot more than other countries in the field of country food. In terms of money, we give less to COVAX for vaccines than we give to Country Readiness. And it's a total. The Netherlands is not alone in this. Within the framework of the European Union, hundreds of millions are being given to the developing countries to combat this problem. We'll take our part in that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u46	I wholeheartedly support Mrs Teunissen's appeal. That's what I'm gonna tell the next coalition. But that's not what my question is about. I had asked for half of the ODA budget to be given directly to NGOs and civil society organisations. A written reply has been received. That is about as follows: 27% we do directly, and for the rest, through all kinds of other channels, money also goes indirectly to these NGOs and civil society organisations. That's beautiful in itself, although we can't measure it exactly. But I also said that it should be efficient, effective and transparent. My question is really about transparency. However, I would like to know exactly how much the indirect amount is going to be. And what is particularly important is this. If I have to explain to my neighbor what we're doing with that OS money, I'd also like to know how much is leaking out because we're doing it indirectly. Actually, that's my point. That's why I wouldn't want to do it indirectly, but right away. I have the impression that all kinds of organisations also give me the impression that if it goes indirectly through large organisations to small NGOs, a whole bunch of money has already been leaked out. My question is whether the Minister could name for me how much it is, and otherwise, because I understand that perhaps that might not be possible immediately would want to map out for me, in the context of transparent handling of the tax money of our Dutch residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u47	On that last point, I can at least say to Mr Stoffer that we receive regular compliments from the Court of Auditors on this budget, because we are so transparent and because the accountability of the funds is so good. In that respect, therefore, I do not think that this ministry is to blame. Then the point of the 27%. We do not send organisations with development cooperation. We have themes, and that's where we spend the money. This can therefore be done through international organisations, such as the World Bank. It may, in some cases, go directly to a particular country. And in many cases it also goes through NGOs. If you take all that back, you're going to get a percentage of about 27%. I don't know by heart right now, but I think there are also numerous tables in the various HGIS notes in which this is made transparent. If there is a need for this, I am quite prepared to look again to see if I can find something in it that I can specifically steer towards Mr Stoffer. But I think that there is already a great deal of information about this in the various budgetary documents at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u48	I like this offer from the Minister. Let me take something. I didn't try to say that it's all a little sneaky and all that. But in the context of 'better every day' I was raised in the official service, and I think the Minister too should always see if he can do a little better. I would therefore be grateful to be given the assurance that in a letter or a document, it may also be an e-mail from me, if it is anything to our Chamber, what is left of that indirect money that ends up with these NGOs and so on, is left behind in organizational costs and so on in these large organizations. If the Minister promises me that, I'll be a little further. I'm not asking for the impossible, I'm just asking for a pretty good overview. I will then come to the Minister in the next cabinet, perhaps this Minister will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u49	I don't doubt that. I shall now turn to the second issue, which we have already dealt with in part. That is the issue of climate, including the greening of trade policy instruments. With me, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Teunissen and Mr Hammelburg are committed to increasing climate finance for the poorest countries. By the way, half of the public ODA funds that we use to mobilise private funding are targeted at the poorest countries. The 100 billion internationally pledged should also benefit those poorest countries. I have already answered Mr Van der Lee's question about what is and what is not a fair share. I think we still have a bit of a difference of opinion on that point. Mr Van der Lee has also made a plea to think in concessional terms in our commitment to Invest International. He was talking about "unprofitable peaks." I would like to make three comments. Firstly, the mobilisation of private climate finance requires more than just the removal of such an uneconomic summit. At least as important is the provision of technical assistance for the development of new projects. We do this through the Dutch Fund for Climate and Development. If we were to do what Mr Van der Lee asks with regard to higher concessionality, it would of course affect the revolutionary nature of the fund, because it would be exhausted at some point. Then we can also finance less projects than we are currently planning. So that is at the expense of our efforts. I would also like to add that this may be a little faint, but it is true that Invest International is only just in existence. They started October 1st. The law has been extensively discussed in this Chamber and in the Upper Chamber. To change that instrument now, two months after we have passed that law, I honestly do not think it is sensible. Let's see how it works first. There will be an evaluation in due course. Then we can always see if we need to change things. I agree with Mr Klink that China should also contribute to climate finance. Unfortunately, in the current system of the $100 billion promised, China is not qualified as a donor country. We absolutely have to do something about that. The Netherlands is also committed to this, including at EU level. That will certainly be a point that will be prominent on the agenda at the next climate summit in Egypt, which will take place in two years' time. Mr. Chairman. That was the second theme. Then I come to the third theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u50	Hohoho! Let me ask you a few questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u51	In itself, thank you for this answer. I don't want a radical change of Invest International either. I just want to increase their impact. The budgets made available from the Dutch Growth Fund for project development are, in my opinion, very modest. The set-up does not solve the problem at the moment either. You need to be able to take big first losses if you want to realise this type of project in the poorest countries. There is another issue here. That is what we indicated at the time in the bill that made Invest International possible. In this respect, moreover, this is identical to Invest-NL and, moreover, to the Growth Fund set up: the construction of these funds seems to be primarily motivated by the fact that they are beneficial for the debt position and the EMU criteria, because they remain investment and they remain revolutionary. So they don't count as public spending. This seems to be leading in the way of thinking rather than the purpose of the fund. The aim of climate finance is to reach, in particular, the poorest countries where adaptation is crucial because the impact of climate change is now the hardest hit. So this is also an appeal to the Cabinet to look a little further than budgetary logic and to use Invest International and other instruments more optimally to get projects off the ground in the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u52	Yes, Mr Van der Lee has a point here. I just think that we should not be under too much illusions that the Invest International instrument is very focused on those poorest countries. Even if we were there to do what you want with an uneconomic summit, you might wonder whether this could generate bankable projects in those countries, as it is called. As far as those poorest countries are concerned, I would therefore prefer to use other instruments that we have and that we use for this purpose too. So we are actually using other channels of the budget for that. However, I agree with Mr Van der Lee that these poorest countries have been hard hit and that we must help them, especially with climate adaptation, but other instruments are better suited for this. Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mr Klink is also eager.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u54	Oh, Mr. Klink. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u55	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question on climate finance for China. In any case, it is the cabinet's commitment to persuade China to pay for it. But I also hear the Minister say: we are going to discuss this and look at it at another COP. Then we'll be back two years. Something really needs to be done to ensure that these big economies actually contribute to climate finance. Isn't there another way to speed that up or join forces, possibly with other trading blocks such as the United States, to mobilise China to actually contribute to climate finance on its own?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u56	When I talk about the next climate summit, I have the feeling that we will have achieved that at that time, hopefully. In the run-up to this, of course, there are numerous meetings, including at UN level. We will, together with the European Union, make this point on all the occasions that have been raised, hopefully together with the United States. I also think that the United States could do a little more. So we have two assignments. But we will do our best to do so. Then I move on to the greening of the export credit insurance instrument. First of all, let me say once again that I am very pleased that I was able to sign the statement in Glasgow to end public support for fossil energy projects abroad by the end of 2022. In the meantime, I am pleased, because we have lobbied hard for this, and many countries and international institutions have also signed that declaration. And fortunately, all the countries that are part of the E3F initiative, which was co-created by the Netherlands, together with my colleague Mr Vijlbrief, have signed that declaration. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hammelburg asked exactly what Glasgow means for our commercial instruments. He mentioned a few points. In the area of export credit insurance itself, this obviously means a significant tightening up. We will now work that out in the near future. We'll do that very soon. I will return to Mr Klink's point in a moment. The fossil industry was already excluded from trade missions. So we already did. With regard to the support of embassies to the Dutch business community, this is a bit more nuanced. We are not going to do that towards projects, but of course companies have other activities. For this, companies can, of course, always contact embassies, just as individuals can always do with regard to consular assistance. We will always assist the Dutch business community abroad if necessary. But once again, let us be clear that this is not a lobby in the field of fossil activities. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Klink asked me whether I can confirm that the first quarter of 2022 at the latest will be clear on that package that we are working on with industry. We've already started that. So we don't waste any time. Collaboration with business focuses on the one hand on the question of what exactly is the change that will take place for business in the coming period. So that is, as it were, the definition issue, and that is still complicated enough. At the same time, the question is, on the other hand, how can we help the business community to make that transition to renewable energy? I can't promise this will be in the first quarter. That is really too soon, also because we want to do this in the context of consultations with like-minded countries. But I would like to say to Mr Klink that I will do everything in my power to ensure that we have that effect in the second quarter. I'll do my utmost to do that. Mr. Chairman. That is the end of the third theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u57	It's been about Glasgow so many times now. I was wondering if the Minister had an opinion on the request made by the African countries to the West. They want 1,300 billion a year...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u58	About loss and damages?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u59	... for climate damage, some kind of climate damage recovery payments. Can the Minister answer that? Can he reassure us or at least the PVV that the Netherlands will never go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u60	This is indeed a theme that is increasingly emerging. Indeed, you can see that many developing countries are already suffering enormous damage as a result of climate change. This is not only the case in the developing countries, but also in the other countries. But the developing countries are also the victims. There has also been a whole debate in Glasgow on the issue of compensation for developing countries. I would like to add that this is a controversial issue. At the same time, I do understand the developing countries, because some of them are very badly affected. This will be a very big theme towards the next summit. I'm not going to make any statements about that right now. I think that's up to another cabinet. But it is a very important issue that will not disappear from the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u61	Here we go. This minister understands it. It does not mean that it is a ridiculous demand and, moreover, a ridiculous amount. I hope that the people who look at it when people look at it will do very well in their ears: 1,300 billion a year from their wallet, soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr. President, may I... Oh, no, I still see Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u63	I can also respond to it in my interruption, because I am learning from Mr Klink. If our Dutch business is doing a lot of damage to nature and the environment somewhere in another country, you could just imagine that it would also have to be repaired there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u64	Yes, yes, yes, but now your own question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u65	Oh, yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is about the commercial instruments and their greening. I also said in my contribution that it is really about a kind of sustainability test, perhaps even an SDG test including a sustainability test, in which embassies, FMO and all the other instruments that the Dutch government has at its disposal to promote trade are also included and that we are going to make the whole policy more sustainable. I'd love to work towards that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u66	The answer is yes. I think I'll come back to that later in my story. In this case, the answer is yes. Mr. Chairman. I come to the subject of trade promotion and small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Klink asked me if I would undertake that, in addition to physical trade missions, digital trade missions... I wanted to look him in the eye, but I didn't see him for a second. He was behind the Housekeeper's big back. Anyway, he asked if we're continuing digital trade missions. The answer is yes. Of course, we take the positive aspects of these digital missions with us. Personally, I prefer to do it physically, because that makes a lot more sense. But virtual meetings will take place without a doubt. As far as I am concerned, they can also play an important role in addition to physical trade delegations, for example by carrying out a joint evaluation either in advance or afterwards. So the short answer is yes. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about Invest International. So I say to Mr Klink that Invest International was set up to be a onestop shop for the financing of both experienced companies and start-ups. They will certainly be helped to do so. Because I understand Mr Klink's point very well. The aim of Invest International is therefore that the entrepreneur has one contact point and that contact point may also be redirected to other instruments of interest. For example, export credit insurance is covered by Atradius. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Amhaouch's question. He asked me to reflect on why Invest International programs are so difficult to get off the ground. Honestly, I haven't received those messages myself. It is also a bit difficult, because Invest International has just begun, as I said before. We will therefore have to be patient before we can judge whether or not it is going well. But once again, we are doing everything we can to support companies in making use of these instruments. If we support financial projects and investments, how do we assess the impact of these activities on development and sustainability? Mr Hammelburg has just placed a small interruption on this subject. Indeed, the SDGs are an important guide to the trade agenda. In line with this, Invest International already has a balancing framework which is specifically assessed on the SDGs. Mr. Chairman. Mr Eppink asked whether it was true that the budget for the DTIF (Dutch Trade and Investment Fund) would be halved next year. I can tell him that's not true. In 2021, that budget was increased once in order to meet the huge increase in the applications that existed at the time. So now the budget comes back in line with what it was. But I say to Mr Eppink: if the application is so large, just like last year, that the budget is exhausted, then I will do everything I can to get it back. There are all kinds of technical possibilities for that. I promise him that we will use it, should that situation arise again. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga said that he was concerned about the Dutch locational climate and our international competitiveness, following the departure of Unilever and Shell's headquarters. Let me say first of all that such a departure is of course always the responsibility of the company itself. However, in general, I do regret the departure of head offices from the Netherlands from leading companies. Your Chamber will also discuss this issue with the Minister of EZK. A letter on that is in preparation. That will soon reach your Chamber as well. From my responsibility, I would like to stress once again that the Netherlands is in a good position. So I also think that we should be careful to create an overly negative image. That's a self-fulfilling prophecy. When I go out with people from business abroad, I notice that they speak positively about the Netherlands and the Dutch location climate. I also see at the Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency that foreign investment attracts and numerous companies come to the Netherlands. I think that the next cabinet will certainly pay a great deal of attention to this. In any case, it is not that it is nothing but sadness; the Netherlands still has a very good locational climate. I would also like to stress once again that the location climate is determined by numerous factors. That's never one factor. It consists of a set of factors. We are a stable democracy. This alone is a very important factor in the locational climate. I see there's gonna be an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u67	Don't look at that. You'll finish your theme. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u68	I am indeed finishing the theme, Mr President. I would like to come under this theme in promoting trade relations with Africa, which has been the subject of various interventions. Mrs Koekkoek asked me about the expectations of the EU-Africa strategy under the French Presidency and what the Dutch commitment will be. At the same time, she says that we must do everything we can to make Africa an equal partner. Of course, I fully agree with the latter. The February Summit is an important moment to strengthen that EU-Africa partnership. We can't bet enough on that. The Netherlands' substantive priorities are climate, jobs and investment, food security, migration mobility and, of course, the fight against terrorism. That's all a lot, but there's also a lot going on in that continent. So these are important issues which are also in line with the European Commission's communication earlier, I believe in March last year, on a broad strategy towards Africa. From the EU and Africa, on top of that earlier Commission Communication, topics such as covid, digitisation and connectivity, including the idea of Global Gateway, will also play a role as new themes that will undoubtedly be addressed at that summit. I would stress that the Netherlands itself will also pay a great deal of attention to sexual and reproductive health and rights, precisely because they are under enormous pressure from the corona crisis worldwide. In his contribution, Mr Amhaouch mentioned the importance of trade relations with Africa. He highlighted the huge potential of the continent and the opportunities for business, particularly in the food, technology and climate sectors. I fully agree with him on that point. I also agree with his remark that Africa is a very complicated continent. It consists of many countries and is very diverse. So there is never a one-size-fits-all solution towards Africa. We're gonna have to look at that country-by-country. He asked me about the progress of the Africa Strategy and the Task Force for Africa and whether I could mention some concrete facts. I certainly can. In the direction of Mrs Koekkoek, I would like to say that we have done a great deal in this area over the past period. These achievements are there thanks to the alignment with the business community in that private action plan 15/15, which is supported by the Netherlands. Different opportunities have been set up in eight African countries in cooperation with industry. They are now being carried out further. The most promising of these are on renewable energy and water in Morocco, on poultry in Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire, on health care in South Africa and on very important coastal protection and energy in Senegal. I'm gonna stick with this, because it's a long list. In 2021 we did four virtual trade missions again in South Africa, Senegal, Morocco and Uganda. On top of that, the Netherlands has made huge contributions from Development Cooperation to SDG 8 to ensure sustainable development, especially for young people, and to create jobs there. Let me give you one example. With the so-called Challenge Fund for Youth Employment, we have created 90,000 jobs in five different African countries. I have almost experienced that this is working in a virtual journey I have made through the Sahel, in which I have spoken with many young people who benefit from it. Mr. Chairman. I come back to Mrs Koekkoek, who asked me how the budget provides support for technological development in developing countries. With the digitisation agenda, we from the Ministry are actively committed to this technological development, for example in the field of fintech. We are also working on young people's digital skills and investing in infrastructure and digital platforms, especially for women entrepreneurs. In short, we do a lot in this area. Finally, Mrs Teunissen asked me to reflect on the purpose of trade agreements. I do not want to dwell on this for too long, because we had a specific debate on this a few weeks ago. Let me say it again to Mrs Teunissen: I do not see these trade agreements merely as facilitating international trade, although it is an important objective. There are also other objectives and agreements, in particular on sustainable development. I discussed this extensively at the last Foreign Affairs/Trade Council in Brussels. I will, of course, share with the Chamber my contribution on this point, which I will also send to the European Commission in the short term. Mr President, that concludes my fourth issue as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u69	The first questioner is Mr Van Haga. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is still on the subject that passed a few minutes ago, namely the departure of Unilever and Shell and also a large number of family businesses. We can say that we are on those lists in beautiful places, which is also true, but a lot of the results that have led us to be on those lists are still in the form of efforts that, so to speak, have been made by the Lubbers Cabinets. It is getting worse in the Netherlands, we see that higher taxes, more bureaucracy, climate change, labour law, which I personally have to deal with and which is particularly bad in the Netherlands. I hear around me from a lot of companies that they do see that the climate is deteriorating. We have also had debates on family businesses. They look, much more than before, at tax flight. Are you really not more concerned about this than your plea has shown? And what can we do about it as a BuHa-OS?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u71	Sure. I also understand: Dutch business is extremely important. What I do from my portfolio is, in particular, to ensure that Dutch companies get into business there abroad. We're successful at that. I went to Dubai a few weeks ago with a large trade delegation of 50 companies, mostly SMEs, but high-tech in terms of water and food and energy. They have been able to conclude very good contracts there and to establish links with other entrepreneurs. That's what I do from my wallet. Mr Van Haga mentioned the increased bureaucracy. I can tell from that that he has some sympathy for the Brexit. You should look at how much bureaucracy, red tape, which means to Dutch business because of the barriers to trade that have been raised again. If we had not started to do so, the Dutch industry would have been much less affected. Bureaucracy is not always something in our hands. It comes from outside, from decisions that I deeply regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u72	The bureaucracy in relation to the Brexit is simply a question of a good trade agreement and removing all these different obstacles. But maybe I'm questioning the wrong minister. I understand you can do all kinds of nice things in Dubai, but that doesn't promote the locational climate in the Netherlands. I understand that this Minister is not responsible for this. But it's a tragedy: the increased load, bureaucracy, licensing pathways, pfas, nitrogen, CO. Companies just vote with their feet. I understand this minister can't help it, but we have a big problem. That problem will not be solved with a trip to Dubai.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u73	Then I'll just turn it into a budget debate EZK. I would like to talk about climate and sustainability. I listen to the Minister's words very carefully. I hear that when it comes to our trade instruments, for example FMO, there is already a framework for doing that SDG test. I want all our trade and export instruments to be vetted once to see if that is a comparable model for everything we do. I'm kind of looking for that. I'm considering a motion for a resolution. Maybe I'll just submit it, too, but perhaps the Minister could elaborate on it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u74	It is true that with the total instruments we have, I am not going to list all the instruments, because there are a lot of instruments that are already doing that test. We already love fossil. So what Mr Hammelburg is putting forward, we are already doing a great deal. But, of course, further steps need to be taken, as indeed in the area of export credit insurance. That is where we have to take that step in the second quarter. I am also looking in the direction of Mr Klink. But we are really on the right track there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u75	I have not heard anything about the role of women in trade missions in this block in the Minister's contribution. I asked questions about this and the written reply responded to it. I found that 19.3% very low. I think it is good to approach organisations that are skilled in this area as much as possible to raise that percentage so that it becomes as equal as possible. Now I read in the reply that the target is 25%. Where did that 25% come from? And are we not going to make the extra bet when that's achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u76	No, of course we always have to get to a good balance. That 25% is based on a more or less realistic objective. But I would like to see, especially in cooperation with Mrs Ingrid Thijssen of the VNO-NCW, whom I have regular contact with, what the possibilities are for speeding this up. That 25% is a realistic objective, and ultimately, of course, we need to get to more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u77	Coming back to the point of Africa that Mrs Koekkoek also mentioned, it is good that the Minister indicated that there are now eight projects, and he mentioned them as paths of opportunity from that 15/15 strategy. We should be able to get on top of that, so that those 15 consortia in 15 countries are actually going to implement and we are going to learn from it. It was also the thrust of the motion that we tabled to the budget last year in order to achieve an Africa strategy. I see that 15/15 as some kind of pilot project. My question to the Minister is when this Africa strategy, with Dutch content, comes to the Chamber, because I miss it. The motion has been there for some time and we would like to discuss that strategy once. We also need to have a vision. A pilot project is good, but we also want to see a real Africa strategy in which the role of the task force is clearly defined in the sense of who is doing what.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u78	You have a committee debate on Africa on 8 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u79	You take the words out of my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u80	I didn't mean to. If you will answer Mr. Amhaouch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u81	Indeed, we will discuss this on 8 December during the debate on this subject. We'll come back to that in great detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u82	9 December you have a committee meeting on covid, which happens to be the next item. We might be able to do a little pointy through that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u83	Sure. I will try, but at the same time I would like to do justice to the members of your Chamber by answering their questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u84	It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u85	I'm going to the theme covid. Starting point is to donate at least as many vaccines this year as we put in the Netherlands, under the motto "get one, give one." This is, by the way, a formula that is already being followed by several countries. Without it, we can't master that pandemic. Mr Hammelburg, Mr Gijs van Dijk, whom I wish all the best from here on in the recovery of his disease, and Mr Ceder have asked about the state of affairs surrounding the vaccine donations. Can we speed it up or involve the private sector? The pace of donations to COVAX depends on production and deliveries from the factory directly to COVAX. The VWS Ministry is in constant contact with the producers. In the meantime, 2.6 million doses of COVAX have been donated by the Netherlands. Delivery to the recipient countries is expected to take place in the coming weeks. By the end of this year we expect to donate a total of 27 million vaccines, of which 22 million directly to COVAX, depending on the timely deliveries from producers. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a look through next year. Mr Hammelburg asked for that. The World Health Organisation wants 70% of the world's population vaccinated in the middle of next year. As I said earlier, with the production of 1.5 billion doses per month, the WHO thinks it can achieve this. In order to ensure fair access to these vaccines, we have set up a number of programmes in addition to the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A) to make this possible. I am not going to go into that now, because at the beginning I had an extensive discussion with Mr Van der Lee on the country dinnerss. I shall skip that now, also because we are indeed coming back to that on 9 December. I've already talked about the waiver, so I'm gonna leave it at that. Then there would have been another call to companies. I would like to say once again that we are very grateful to the companies that spent around EUR 240 million in total. Then there has been talk of gender-based violence. I'll deal with that here, because it's also been in the context of covid. There's a lot of attention to the position of women and girls in this pandemic. Mr Gijs van Dijk rightly spoke about the worrying increase in sexual violence that is gender-related. The Netherlands, of course, stands for women's rights and gender equality. In fact, we are international leaders in this area. One example of our commitment is the so-called One Stop Centres, which we finance in countries such as Somalia, Rwanda and the Palestinian territories. Victims of violence can go there for health care and psychosocial support, which is also extremely important. By the way, legal services are also provided there. With over 500 million euros for five years worldwide, the Dutch SDG 5 Fund is one of the largest funds aimed at protecting and promoting women's rights. The Netherlands also supports numerous international programmes, including in particular UN Women of UNFPA. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Koekkoek spoke about the importance of good sanitation. I totally agree with her. Access to sustainable and safe sanitation contributes to good health. The total amount we spend on water and sanitation through central budgets in 2022 is about 83 million euros. Of this, EUR 24.4 million goes to the WASH programme. Through our posts, our embassies, another 2.5 million is spent on organisations that have water-sanitation and hygiene programmes. Mr. Chairman. I think that was the end of this theme. I don't see any speeches, so may I move on to the next theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u86	No, Mr Hammelburg was just thrilling, but he has walked backwards again, so get on with the next theme, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u87	Then I'll move on to the next theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u88	Oh, there he is. He's improved his lap time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u89	I was just ticking off a motion. Thank you to the Minister for the answers on the contribution of Dutch industry. I am also grateful to the Dutch business community, which has already contributed EUR 240 million, I believe. My question was whether it was enough for the coming years. Is it possible to sit down with business again to see what more business can do next year and for the coming years? 240 million is a lot of money, but it is about such huge amounts that a second round, also in the interest of business, can be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u90	I'm talking to business about that, so the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u91	I would gradually like to go to lunch, so if the Minister wanted to be brief, pointy and concise, I would certainly appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u92	Yes. I'm going through it very quickly, Mr. Chairman. I am on the sixth theme: civil society and civic space. A great deal has been said about this in the first term. Autocratic regimes use COVID-19 as an excuse to undermine democracy and violate human rights. In 80 countries, democratic elections have been postponed over the past year and we see that the rights of particularly vulnerable groups are under pressure. Members Kuik, Hammelburg, Ceder and Van Dijk of the Labour Party asked for attention and space for civil society and organisations that are increasingly under pressure. This is a common thread in our policy and a reason why we have set up the so-called Power of Voices programme for civil society and have allocated as much as EUR 1.4 billion for it. If we look only at the ODA budget in the budget, then about 27% of the funds have already been allocated to civil society with Mr Stoffer. That is therefore firmly anchored in our policy. Mr. Chairman. Part of that Power of Voices program is that Civic Space Fund. This is open to proposals from southern civil society organisations and has no restrictions on issues where these organisations can engage in activities. Mr Hammelburg spoke in particular about vulnerable groups, such as intersex persons and people with disabilities. Without our policy now focusing specifically on target groups, this is covered. Organisations defending the interests of intersex individuals can submit funding applications through our embassies. They received additional funds for 2022. This therefore concerns human rights priorities, including the rights of lhbti'ers. I will ask our embassies to pay particular attention to this group in the applications that are being submitted. Mr. Chairman. Then the Christian Union and the CDA talked about child prostitution and SRGR. These are very important issues. We are therefore continuing the fight against child prostitution. It is precisely during the period of the pandemic that it is important to continue to invest fully in sexual and reproductive health and rights. In many low-income countries, basic care due to COVID-19 is particularly under pressure. So we will continue to make every effort to do so, with EUR 70 million. Mr. Chairman. In particular, I would like to thank and congratulate Mr Stoffer for raising the issues of menstrual health and supporting Mother and Child Centres. Menstrual health is part of our commitment to sexual and reproductive health and rights, including in the sexual education programmes. The importance of supporting Mother and Child Centres is thus also emphasised by the Cabinet in the context of this wider programme. Mr. Chairman. I have already finished this important subject. If there are no interruptions, I move on to the next theme...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u93	Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u94	Welcome to Mr Van Dijk!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u95	Yes, thank you for coming, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u96	I have a question for the Minister about civil society. In my example, I indicated that organisations that are in the community are often much more effective than organisations that are a little further away from it. How do we ensure that this community is actually involved in this civil society support project? Because I have my doubts as to whether this is enough, even in the case of such a project for jezidis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u97	I get that. The embedding in the local situation is incredibly important. That must be done carefully, because local organisations are not always able to do what we expect them to do. So that is a difficult process, but we will certainly try to shape it as well as possible. I fully agree with the basic idea that those who are best embedded in the local situation have the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u98	Thank you for that answer. A second point is that we put a lot of money away from multilateral organisations and that it is quite difficult to see where that is going. Does the Minister see any possibility of getting a little more insight into whether that money actually ends up in that grassroots community, where it is also most effective to actually help?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u99	I think that is certainly a point that we will have to discuss with the international organisations through which we channel aid. Of course, we do that because we want to combat fragmentation in the end so that large organisations can have more impact. But it is, indeed, always searching and measuring. But once again, I wholeheartedly support the point about the importance of this local embedding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u100	The next theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u101	Yes, Mr. Chairman, the next theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u102	Oh, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u103	Yeah, about civil society. When I asked if we could still send at 25%, the Minister replied that it is currently 27%. In the past, however, a motion by Mr Voordewind and Mrs Agnes Mulder has been adopted in this Chamber asking the government to monitor these 25% expenditures. I take it that motion was carried out, too. However, I see that only 18% of the total ODA budget is spent and that 27% is only about spending within BuHa-OS. Is it true that we are actually 18% when we look at the total budget and not 27%? And is it true that if we carry out the motion and continue to implement it, the aim should indeed be to ensure that we reach 25%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u104	On that first point, I will come back in second place. I should check that out. I'm careful about saying things here that may not be right. But I would like to emphasise that we from the Ministry do not send on channels. We'll send on those themes. So the 27% I was talking about is a resultant one. It is not a goal in the sense of: we want to do so much through these organisations. That's just the system. I also think it is important that we continue to do so, because nothing is worse than yo-yo policy. So we focus on themes. This can be done through international organisations such as the World Bank, UNDP et cetera or through NGOs. But I will come back to the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u105	Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u106	Thanks for the answer. If the 27%, which you will be returning to later, is the same as what the Chamber called the cabinet to do, isn't that wonderful? I am just looking for the implementation of the motion adopted by the Chamber, in which the cabinet is called upon to monitor that percentage. Maybe it won't bite, because you're saying we're above that percentage. You don't want a yo-yo effect, and I don't want a yo-yo effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u107	The minister doesn't want a yo-yo effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u108	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. The minister doesn't want a yo-yo effect, and neither do we. Is it true that the ambition of the cabinet and the desire in the motion adopted do not really bite each other in practice, so that they continue in line with current government policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u109	The figures show that we end up with the same thing. May I move on to the next theme, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u110	Mr Van der Lee has something on his mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u111	I would like to add my voice to Mr Ceder. I have the impression that the percentage going to civil society seems to be falling rather than being at the level we would like. I understand, however, that the Minister does not explicitly indicate that he is going to do so either, because this is being done on themes. But we also see, on the basis of the OECD data, which I have also mentioned, that the proportion of activities in which local ownership and context-specific country programming takes place has decreased relatively compared to central management. This, in my view, helps to reduce the number of civil society organisations, especially the southern organisations. So there's definitely a connection. From the written answer, I understand that the Minister sees this as well and recognizes that this trend may not go in the right direction. Is the Minister prepared to adjust this trend, with as a by-product that may increase the share that goes to civil society organisations again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u112	We can argue about these figures, but I agree with what you say about that trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u113	Very important, so it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u114	Can I move on to the next theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u115	Theme number seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u116	This is about emergency aid, migration, Ethiopia and Yemen. Let me summarize some of the topics. The Christian Union, the SGP and the CDA asked about the situation in Yemen. I share the concerns about the humanitarian disaster that is taking place there, particularly in Ethiopia, where we also see the use of hunger as a weapon. It is not for nothing that that international is forbidden. All parties in Yemen are guilty of obstructing humanitarian access. This is also reflected in delayed approval of humanitarian supplies, taxation of relief supplies and travel restrictions for aid workers. Over the last few months, I have called for this at EU and UN level. We continue to appeal to all interested parties, including through the European Union. I have been in contact with several Commissioners in Brussels on several occasions. It is an extremely complex conflict that cannot be resolved one-two-three. Mr. Chairman. I'm really worried about Ethiopia. The situation there is getting worse. Yesterday morning we called on the Dutch to leave the country. That alone indicates how serious the situation is. Also this morning, the Secretary-General of the United Nations again called on the parties to cease the conflict immediately. We have insisted from the outset on inclusive national dialogue, but unfortunately both sides were not receptive to it, neither the government nor the TPLF. All the efforts of the negotiator, the African Union, Mr Obasanjo, lead the talks supported by the United States and the European Union, are aimed at ensuring at least that emergency aid is admitted. We see that there are all kinds of obstacles for international organisations to get emergency aid where it is needed. In northern Ethiopia, 8 million people are in need of help, some 400,000 of whom in Tigray are really in a situation of famine. More than 2 million people have been displaced. We are doing everything we can to persuade the parties to at least get emergency aid on the ground. The Netherlands is working together with the Dutch Relief Alliance and international organisations to achieve this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is humanitarian funding. Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Dijk of the SP and Mrs Koekkoek have asked for a structural increase in the budget for emergency aid. I fully support the importance of emergency aid. This 2022 budget contains an amount of 68 million higher than last year. For this year we come to a total of 438 million euros. That is what I am saying to Mrs Koekkoek, because I believe she asked if we could increase that. So we are already above the figure she asked for this year. I don't think it's wise to give any more emergency aid. This is really at the expense of other important objectives in the budget. We need to focus on prevention from the budget, because humanitarian aid is actually at the end of the journey. On the contrary, we want to prevent people from getting into a situation where emergency aid and humanitarian aid are needed. I prefer to focus on prevention, and experience has shown us that we have enough to do so at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik spoke about the importance of an approach to trafficking in human beings. We are already doing this, in a state-wide programme, including from other departments, including Justice. It's called "Together Against Human Trafficking." It supports an international approach aimed at strengthening international legal cooperation in dealing with and prosecuting smugglers. We've been able to see in the last few days how important that is. I mention the terrible events in the North Sea, where people drowned dramatically. We are funding a major programme carried out by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime. Mr President, that was the penultimate issue I wanted to deal with. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als er geen ...]] There are still interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u117	Let's talk about emergency aid. I hear the Minister's plea. It is also a good thing that extra money has now been added once to the budget. At the same time, the Minister will undoubtedly also see the broad desire to increase the emergency aid budget in a structural manner. That is why I propose to increase it by 30 million to 400 million in view of the needs that exist today. Can I get the minister in on that? He also said it shouldn't be at the expense of other budgets. It is understandable that he says that, but of course there will be a new cabinet. Surely we can assume that's going to make room for extra budget? So there's not going to be anything else, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u118	In theory that is true, but that is up to the new cabinet, and unfortunately I cannot anticipate that. Here, as I said in the small debate with Mrs Teunissen, some patience will be desirable from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u119	I understand that the Minister may have to say that from the point of view of his profession, but he also sees, of course, that the need cannot wait. The need is enormous. That's what he said in his introduction. At some point, however, it is difficult to wait months, if not longer, for a new cabinet, when we know that there is support here to increase emergency aid. Then consider this interruption as a speech to my colleagues in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u120	As I said, we are doing a lot of emergency aid. We have done a great deal of emergency aid over the past period as a ruler in my short time alone, whether in Haiti or in other parts of the world. Fortunately, we also had sufficient resources for this in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u121	We're going to the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u122	Mr. Chairman. Then we go to the last theme: international corporate social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u123	This committee will also have a committee meeting shortly, on 2 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u124	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u125	So this can be short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u126	If everyone agrees, we can postpone it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u127	It can't be. It has to be dealt with for a while, because there have been some questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u128	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u129	But that can be short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u130	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then let me try to keep it as short as possible. Then I am not going to refer to all the interventions, because there have been a lot of interventions on this point. I sent a letter to the Chamber on the basis of the ESC opinion. That letter is clear: we are committed to European legislation. Hopefully the Commission will come forward with a concrete proposal before the end of the year. Commissioner Reynders promised me that. If, for whatever reason, that does not happen in the European Union, then the building blocks I have shared with the Chamber can be used for national legislation. But that's a decision for the new cabinet. That's the situation. So I'm gonna stick with that. However, I would like to touch on one more point because it needs to be emphasized. This cannot wait until the debate on 9 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u131	December 2nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u132	December 2nd, sorry. December 9th is covid. That was the point of the covenants made, in particular by Mr Hammelburg, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Ceder. They discussed the importance of participating in those agreements. I shall be very brief about this too. On the basis of the note that my predecessor sent to the Chamber, we are now moving to another situation and moving towards legislation. This means that the role of the government will be different from that of the covenants. We will no longer be partners, but we will have to ensure that the law is enforced. That does not mean that the government will withdraw completely from this subject, because in that particular note, which I have also reiterated in my letter to the Court of Justice, it is quite clear that the whole of the imvo policy is a broad mix, with this new legislation as a centrepiece. That is why I would like us to gradually withdraw from these agreements. But, of course, we will continue to work in a different way, learning from what we have done in these agreements, in a sector-wide way with the companies. That is, briefly and concisely, the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u133	And that was also this theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u134	And that was the end of this very important issue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u135	Looks like there's some questions about that, I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u136	That's what I'm guessing, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u138	Thank you for that answer. But let me get this straight: the Minister says that the position of this cabinet is that, if there is no proposal from Commissioner Reynders before the end of the year, we have to take the building blocks into national law, and that is why it does not want to support the covenants now, because then you are in a difficult position as legislator. If that's not the case, I guess I just didn't listen properly. But then I do not understand why the Minister does not want to continue the agreements. If the cabinet holds on to a European route, it will take years to make that regulation and one or two more years before you have transposed it into national law. We know that. In the meantime, you can certainly make sure that the imvo is strengthened on the basis of the covenant agreements. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u139	Let's not pin it down on that date before the end of the year. Once again, if for any reason that European pathway does not lead to a result, we will have to see it somewhere in the next period, then those building blocks, which I have now sent to the Chamber, are ready to base national legislation on them. If we move towards legislation in the first place, the role of the government will be different. I find it difficult that if the government finds itself in a different position and we are still part of covenants, then we should, as it were, leave these covenants halfway. I now call for a pragmatic solution to be found here. Because once again, our commitment stands. It only gets a different form, short and concisely put. Otherwise, I can't formulate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u140	The point about national legislation and European legislation I follow, but what I do not follow is that the cabinet decides or intends to withdraw in the meantime and create a vacuum. My question to the Minister is: what signal does he expect from this, when we have been investing in these agreements for years? Now companies and NGOs are going to scratch behind the ears as well. If the government withdraws in the meantime and doesn't even keep to the agreements, it sends a completely wrong signal. Pragmatic or not, I don't think we should create a vacuum. I would like to have a reflection on that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u141	No, I repeat, there is no vacuum in the sense that we are going to withdraw completely from this subject, quite the contrary. That is part of our role in this wide mix. If there is a need, we will, of course, talk to the business community in all possible ways. For example, we will also set up a support centre for business. That's what we're doing. In this new sectoral cooperation, we will also continue the experience we have gained in the context of the covenants, only in a different legal way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u142	I share the CDA's view on this. You're really trying to stop that vacuum from coming out after all. I am concerned about the definition issue and its practical implementation. I'm kind of looking for the difference between the role of the government in the covenants and outside the covenants. My request to the Minister is to inform us further about this in a technical briefing so that we can make our own judgement as to what exactly is the difference and whether or not that vacuum arises. I am really worried about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u143	That's exactly what we're doing. I cannot yet undertake a technical briefing on this, because this needs to be considered further. As soon as we have given this better form together with the business community, I am, of course, prepared to come back to the Chamber to discuss it. But I think that's a little early.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u144	I get that. Things have to be done right. I understand that that requires consultation, too, and it's happening now. My question is: what is "soon"? Nor do I want us to stand here in a year's time and then scratch our backs and think: we should have been more careful; we should have had that technical briefing sooner. As far as I'm concerned, there's a real rush.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u145	Let me put it this way: I think we will do that in the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u146	A lot has already been said about this, but the Minister himself also states: let us be pragmatic in this. In my view, it is very pragmatic to continue these agreements, especially for those sectors which are very satisfied with them, such as the textile sector, until this European regulation is in place. It seems to me to be a pragmatic solution that will then be the end date. Can anything be found in there? So it sounds a bit like an uncertainty for business. I don't think we should want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u147	Agreed. Here's what I'm gonna say. I'm gonna take a look at the situation by agreement. In consultation with the relevant sectors, we will look at what is the best solution. There are numerous agreements, be they textiles or ornamental crops. The solution will again differ by agreement. So let's just take a practical look at the expiry times of the covenants and choose a practical solution instead of trying to define a kind of general rule. That's just not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u148	On the European road: I also hope that it will succeed. You indicated that, if there are any obstacles, what can be done at national level will be considered. But I'd like to narrow that down. I have no doubt that someday there will be European legislation, and I look forward to that day, but I think it is relevant when that happens. If it is still a considerable number of years, it may indeed be appropriate to introduce national legislation, precisely with all the challenges that lie ahead. Can the minister estimate whether the legislation... This government has been saying since 2017: after two years we look at how and what. We've been four years. Can you indicate when the implementation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u149	"Can the Minister state..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u150	Sorry, Chairman. Can the Minister indicate when implementation could be achieved? Is that in the current time frame, in the current period, of this Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u151	I cannot predict how long the negotiations on this issue will last within the European Union. On average, the adoption of a directive takes about 18 months, but it may as well be longer or shorter. So I think it's also up to another cabinet to keep a good finger on the wrist, like: how does it go? If a subsequent cabinet were to see that it was not progressing, then the choice of national legislation would have to be made at that time. Again, that's not up to me. It's up to another cabinet. I cannot predict how this trajectory will run over the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u152	Rounding up. Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u153	The observation "we'll see how it goes and if it doesn't work out, we're going to do something ourselves" is, of course, exactly the same observation as it was written in 2017, when this cabinet took office. In 2019, two years ago, we would step into that if it didn't hurry up; so it didn't work out. Now I feel like the goalposts are being shifted. Once again, I feel that this European legislation will eventually come about, but do you agree with me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u154	"Does the Minister agree with me..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u155	Sorry. Does the Minister agree with me that if it turns out that legislation cannot be implemented within the current committee period and that it is soon clear, perhaps already in the December letter, that national legislation is appropriate? Because the longer you wait, the closer you get to that date. So you're gonna have to cut the knot fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u156	I thought I had already answered this question, but I would like to say once again that it is up to another cabinet to determine whether the pace of negotiations in Brussels is high enough, yes or no. What I could imagine, though, is that it is also up to the next cabinet to look at the implementation of the directive in the Netherlands during these negotiations, because we all know that the transposition of a directive into Dutch law will take some time. That could happen in parallel; then you also gain time. That is all up to another cabinet too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u157	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u158	I could give that advice to the next cabinet, namely to speed up the pace that Mr Ceder is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u159	The next cabinet is listening, I hear. So much for the cabinet's term. I'm suspending until 1:30 p.m. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u160	I have an interruption on another point, namely the written reply. I asked in the first term whether the Minister would like to promote an international investigation into coercion or urge against women to undergo abortion. There has been quite an answer to that, but that means that the cabinet does not see the need for it. I am concerned that the answer says that the cabinet is opposed to any form of forced abortions, including sex-based abortions, and that the cabinet is working to counter this. It is not about the position on abortions; the SGP is always very clear and the cabinet is moving in this direction. I am concerned that from the investigations we have received, I cannot obtain that the cabinet guarantees that where there is financial or other Dutch involvement, it is excluded that there is, in one way or another, an urge or coercion in relation to abortions. My question is whether the Minister can guarantee me that there is no such thing at all and whether he can show me it in black and white and, if not, to do additional research.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u161	I can never guarantee that. I would just like to say that, of course, it is unacceptable for coercion or urge to take place. Of course, we are absolutely against that, but we are against a lot of things and yet sometimes terrible things happen in the world. In that sense, I cannot give a guarantee. But I would like to say to Mr Stoffer that there can of course never be any urge or compulsion. It is always the freedom of choice of the individual himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u162	Then my question still stands. We agree that there should be no urge or compulsion. But if that cannot be guaranteed, I would like to say once again that I would like to have looked more closely into the extent to which that is the case. We are getting signals that this could be the case. We agree that we should not want that, so I think further research is justified. I would therefore ask once again whether the cabinet would like to investigate this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u163	As I have already said in my written reply, we do not think it is necessary to carry out additional research beyond what is already available. I also indicated this in the debate that we had a few weeks ago following Mr Stoffer's own-initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u164	I have a point about the order of business. It would be very convenient for me and some of my colleagues if we were to do the second term of office already because of other debates that are also taking place today. Can I tempt you to do that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u165	Well, you do want to be here until the end of the debate, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u166	Of itself! That's why I'm trying to organize that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u167	Actually, I was gonna suspend for lunch right now. The problem is that we still have to vote. That cannot be done before 1.30 p.m., but that has nothing to do with your request. I do not know until what time we might be able to postpone that vote, because there must be a ruler present. You may have seen in the last schedule, which has just arrived, that we are going to vote at 1.30 p.m. I would prefer to suspend for lunch now, then vote at 1.30 p.m. and then continue with the second term. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u168	I would like to support Mr Jasper van Dijk's request. If we do it now, the assessment can take place during lunch and I think we are losing as little time as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u169	I note that many agree with that. Mrs. Van Weerdenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u170	No, I don't agree with that. This is a budget debate. Although this is not the PVV's favourite budget, I think we should do it very quickly, including the answer. I'm really out of line here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u171	It's gotta be quick. I notice that there are a lot of parties in favour of this, also because we want to enable each other to have all the debates here in this house, because they are also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u172	Okay. Do you have a new point, Mrs Piri? No, you just agree. You agree, too, Mr. Klink? It is a broad request, but it depends on the votes. There must be a ruler there, and I do not know that agenda. We're just figuring that out right now. I'll suspend for four or five minutes. Then we can stretch our legs anyway, and then I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u173	The next item is the second term of office. I call Mrs Van Weerdenburg. The request to everyone is: short, pointy and preferably no interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't originally intend to use my full five minutes, but I'm a little surprised that my colleagues want to ride through a budget debate so quickly, so I'm going to talk very slowly. Mr. Chairman. I will never understand how so many colleagues in this house have more sympathy and compassion for people who live 6,000 kilometres from here than for their compatriots who are 60 metres away and who are supposed to represent them in this house. This annual waste party must and will be maintained. This is increasingly the case, for example, in the fight against the root causes of migration, climate change and gender genesis. It goes on and on! Now that the sadness industry seems to merge with climate madness, there is nothing to fear but the worst. At the Glasgow Climate Summit, African countries demanded, as they had just changed, 1,300 billion a year from the Western countries because of climate damage and to achieve some kind of climate justice. I'm sure they laughed at it very nicely when they thought of it. To my surprise, this Minister even says he understands that. This is total insanity. Only one answer fits the African countries: not now and never! In any case, the PVV says: up to here and no further! Let us now put an end to this annual waste of money party; hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch have traditionally been very generous and can very well decide for themselves whether and to what charity they want to donate their money to;]] [[calls on the government not to spend another penny on development aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Weerdenburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u175	Mr. Chairman. I also mentioned the intention to see if we could spend money on helping the Taliban in Afghanistan. It was also widely exchanged during Question Time on Tuesday. In his written answer to the questions in the first term, the Minister said the following. I would have liked to include that in my text, but I'm going to read it to you anyway. After all, I have plenty of minutes. The Minister explains that the cabinet has a dilemma. "Providing support for the maintenance of basic services would mean that international donors would finance tasks that the Taliban, as self-appointed authorities in Afghanistan, would have to carry out themselves. This may create the impression that, as a result of this support, the Taliban will be partially relieved of their responsibilities. The cabinet considers this undesirable." That seems to me to be the case, by the way. You're just gonna help terrorists. The cabinet continues as follows: "At the same time, international organisations, such as the UN, have repeatedly indicated that the infrastructure for providing basic services in Afghanistan is under great pressure and is in danger of collapse. This scenario is not in the interest of the Netherlands, as it can lead to further increasing humanitarian needs in Afghanistan, irregular migration flows and greater scope for terrorists." I don't quite understand what the dilemma is here. Either you help the Taliban, and so terrorists, or... I don't know. Left or right, we're gonna help and support terrorists. Moreover, the NCTV also pointed out in the takeover of the Taliban in Afghanistan the possibility that the Taliban would give space to terrorist organisations, which would in turn be planning attacks on the West. In any case, I would like to give the Minister and this cabinet a little support in order to relieve them of this dilemma with this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on behalf of the Dutch government, the intention was recently expressed to explore the possibility of helping health care workers and educational staff pay in Afghanistan through relief organisations;]] [[Whereas care workers and educational staff in the Netherlands have been structurally underpaid for years;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no cent of Dutch taxpayers' money, directly or indirectly, is used to pay salaries of officials in Afghanistan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weerdenburg and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u176	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Thanks also for the commitment on malpractices, namely that the Chamber will be informed about it separately and directly when it comes to an amount above €50,000. Also thank you for the commitment to inform us soon, as soon as possible, of the NGOs accused of terrorism. There is one thing I find lacking in the Minister's first term. That is the link between aid and trade. The reason why this post was conceived was ultimately to make the link between development cooperation and trade. In my contribution I have tried to make some links between them. It is perhaps not so much a question, but does the Minister still want to reflect in his second term on how the synergy between these two issues can best take place? Then I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that SMEs have been facing a decline in funding opportunities for many years, particularly from large banks;]] [[Whereas this applies in particular to the financing of internationally active companies;]] [[whereas funds such as Invest International mainly work with banks on the financing side, while entrepreneurs are running into a wall here;]] [[calls on the Government to include internationally active SMEs in the use of funds such as Invest International,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klink, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Ceder, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u177	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that SMEs have been facing a decline in funding opportunities for many years, particularly from large banks;]] [[Whereas this applies in particular to the financing of internationally active companies;]] [[Whereas the current instruments are still insufficiently accessible to SMEs and start-ups and often fail to meet the conditions or find the right arrangements;]] [[Whereas access to advice on financing at the policy stage is important;]] [[calls on the Government to make Invest International the sole point of contact for financing international business,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klink, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Cedar and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u178	Then there's the third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas recently at COP26 it was decided not to support fossil investments abroad by Dutch companies by 2023;]] [[Considering that industry had previously indicated that export credit insurance for "fossil projects" would be completed through an international and realistic timetable, combined with a complementary public policy;]] [[Whereas the COP26 declaration should now speed up the transition;]] [[calls on the Government to have a clear demarcation, timeline and a robust package for the maintenance of knowledge and jobs by the second quarter of 2022 at the latest, so that the international business community can benefit from the transition from fossil to non fossil,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klink, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Ceder, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Stoffer and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u179	Then the fourth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an inter-departmental, comprehensive vision of innovation and trade is lacking;]] [[Whereas other knowledge-based economies such as Germany, France and Sweden have put in place instruments combining innovation and trade and this restricts the possibilities for Dutch industry to develop and implement international innovation projects to the same extent as foreign parties;]] [[calls on the government to make an explicit link between the Dutch innovation and trade policy and an integrated, inter-departmental approach to foreign trade and development cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klink, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Ceder, Mr Stoffer, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u180	Sounds like a radio program, Chairman. I'm gonna start soon. Thank you for the answers. We'll be back on imvo next week. The Minister knows that the Chamber has made a fine law. I'd say take a good look at it, and we can get to work on it quickly. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a significant increase in the number of people in need of emergency aid;]] [[calls on the government to increase the basic funding for emergency aid by EUR 30 million to EUR 400 million per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u181	This motion is in addition to my amendment to regulate it before this year, but it is of course necessary to do so structurally. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the covid pandemic has greatly increased the need for sexual health (SRGR) and HIV/AIDS, such as an increase of 1.4 million unwanted pregnancies as well as the number of girl circumcisions, teenage pregnancies and child marriages;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to implement programmes aimed at addressing SRGR and HIV/AIDS in the coming period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Members of this Chamber who wish to join my amendment to increase the Civic Space Fund by 7.5 million. In the needs of the corona pandemic, that is urgently needed. Thank you also to the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the many questions that I and other colleagues have asked. I've got three more motions. The first one is about Paris and Glasgow. I welcome the Minister's answers, but I want some certainty in this. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Mainly that fundamental steps have been taken in Paris and Glasgow towards the sustainability of our trade and export instruments;]] [[considers that all Dutch commercial and export instruments should be preserved as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to bring all trade and export instruments in line with Paris and Glasgow before the end of 2022, and to inform the Chamber of its progress in the second quarter of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hammelburg and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u183	Mr. Chairman. In two weeks' time we will be talking about COVAX and its progress. Several Members of Parliament have already said that we really need to speed up the donation policy and the availability of vaccines. I do have a question about business, on which I also propose a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the lowest income countries only 1% of the population had a corona vaccine;]] [[Whereas this increases the risk of new corona variants, and that new waves in the Netherlands and Europe could jeopardise international trade flows;]] [[noting that Dutch companies have a major interest in the global vaccination programme COVAX;]] [[Whereas the existing commitments to COVAX are still insufficient to meet the targets for this year and for the coming years;]] [[Whereas several international companies have already contributed to COVAX, for which thanks;]] [[calls on the government to mobilise financial and technical support to COVAX from the Dutch business community,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hammelburg, Mr Cedar and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u184	Mr. Chairman. Then my last, very specific point. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply on the possible support from the Civic Space Fund for local intersex organisations. That is very important. It also applies to trans- and lb-organisations; let there be no doubt about it. The intersex organizations are very small and having a hard time. This also applies to regional and global organisations, which are often made up of only a few people and which no longer have funding at the moment. This funding from the Netherlands dried up from 1 January. Hence an attempt to ask the Minister with a motion to find something. In recent years, it has been a tonne a year. In my motion, there is no amount, but still the order for the Minister to seek space. Along with Mrs Piri of the Labour Party, I shall table the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas equal application of human rights for intersex persons is part of the policy priorities under Dutch foreign and OS policies;]] [[Whereas the intersex movement itself must be able to promote equal rights;]] [[whereas the Netherlands as the only country has supported the small-scale international intersex human rights movement in recent years with capacity building;]] [[noting that this Dutch financing will cease completely from 2022;]] [[calls on the Government to support the international and regional intersex movement in Europe, Africa and Asia with similar support to that of the past five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hammelburg and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u186	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Piri from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that effective civil society may require a broad coalition of relevant organisations and that it should be possible for these organisations to deploy different strategies in an innovative way;]] [[calls on the Government to deploy the Civic Space Fund with a focus on innovative cooperation and as little pre-imposed restrictions as possible on the basis of themes and types of organisations entitled to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u188	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that without a structural anchoring of gender mainstreaming, there is insufficient visibility of the impact of development, emergency and peace and security policies and policy implementation on women and girls;]] [[noting that the Netherlands already supports the third EU Gender Action Plan 2021-2025 and that the Cabinet has already committed itself to further gender mainstreaming in all policy areas;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an implementation plan for gender mainstreaming in accordance with the criteria of the EU Gender Action Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Hammelburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u189	Finally, Mr President. In his first term, the Minister indicated his intention to continue fully the fight against child prostitution. But this Chamber has been asking for 5 million a year for this and we see in the budget that only 2.5 million have been drawn out of it. Then, for the years after next year, there is actually nothing on the budget. The Labour Party therefore wholeheartedly supports the amendment to be tabled by the Christian Union and calls on the Minister finally to implement fully the wishes of the Chamber on this point. I would like a commitment on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u190	Thank you very much, Mr Gijs van Dijk. Then Mrs Kuik from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u191	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sexual abuse and rape of women and girls are commonplace in conflict areas;]] [[noting that women who are victims of sexual violence often cannot return with their child to their community;]] [[calls on the Minister to examine which aid programmes for Jezidi women who cannot return to their community by becoming victims of sexual violence, for example because they have a child from rape, can be supported in 2022, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u192	I have also tabled an amendment along with Mr Ceder to continue the fight against child prostitution, and an amendment along with Mr Hammelburg and a lot of people, in order to further strengthen the social middle field.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u194	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Foreign Trade Minister. I stress the word 'trade', because that is very important for how we are going to earn our living in the future and the Netherlands has a very large foreign country. Mr. Chairman. I'll move on to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch government has a responsibility in implementing the OECD guidelines and the UNGPs by government and companies;]] [[noting that the Dutch government is not a participant in the negotiations on the new clothing agreement;]] [[noting that there is added value in sectoral cooperation and that the public authorities have an important stimulating and controlling role in ensuring its success;]] [[Calls on the Government to continue its support and involvement in the current IMVO agreements for the agreed duration and to have the new sectoral cooperation instrument ready and operational as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to join the discussions on a follow-up initiative to the Textile and Clothing Agreement and to incorporate its experience in the development of the new sectoral cooperation instrument,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas relative economic growth for the Netherlands is increasingly outside Europe;]] [[Noting that the evaluation of the commitment made through the Amhaouch/Weverling amendment on additional funds for Trade and Innovation NL (35300-XVII, No. 19) is positive;]] [[noting that the internationalisation of SMEs through regional development companies has proved successful;]] [[calls on the Minister to continue to provide additional support to the ROMs in facilitating the internationalisation of SMEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Klink, Mr Ceder, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Piri and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Klink and Mr Hammelburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u195	Mr. Chairman. Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in order to achieve the Dutch ambitions in the field of all transitions and our future earning ability, practical and technically trained staff is essential;]] [[noting that there is a large and growing shortage of practical and technically trained professionals in the Netherlands and across Europe;]] [[Whereas, in the context of reshoring and the prevention of brain drain, as much as possible should be sought for practical and technically trained professionals in the Netherlands or the European Union;]] [[calls on the Minister to identify the need, opportunities and threats to practical and technically skilled personnel in Europe, identifying areas for greater cooperation in Europe;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Hammelburg and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his answers and to his associates for all the important work they do. Then there's the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the poorest countries are relatively little served by the different forms of climate finance in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas in those countries the effects of climate change are rather disproportionate, but the risks associated with (private) climate investment are soon assessed as too high;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to consider how to adapt existing instruments to maximise the benefits of climate investment to the poorest countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas data show that the number of countries receiving more than EUR 5 million of direct ODA annually has increased from 15 in 2018 to 22 in 2022;]] [[Whereas the OECD review shows that local ownership and context-specific programming have decreased in favour of centrally driven activities from The Hague;]] [[noting that more fragmentation and central management of the donor can be at the expense of the effectiveness of ODA;]] [[calls on the government to strengthen local ownership and context-specific programming, for example through our embassies and NGOs partners, and to grow in relative size,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Union has presented a forest law allowing only deforestation-free products on the European market;]] [[whereas European companies will soon have to prove through due diligence research that their production chains do not encourage deforestation;]] [[Whereas it is possible to draw up lists of risky and less risky countries, thereby creating an incentive to artificially allow trade through low-risk countries;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to adopt a uniform due diligence policy under the Forest Act, which prevents money laundering,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Dutch budget for development cooperation remains at the level of 0,53% GNI according to the Millions Note for 2022;]] [[Whereas it has been agreed at EU and UN level that countries will eventually spend 0.7% of their gross national income on development cooperation;]] [[having noted that the General Reviews decided to increase defence expenditure by EUR 300 million;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the development cooperation budget by the same amount, including to allow additional funding for the transport and administration of covid vaccines in poorer countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Teunissen, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-36]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Teunissen and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-37]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-38]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri, Mr Teunissen, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Stoffer and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four motions in two minutes; I'll do my best. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that policy coherence is important because public expenditure which does not go to development cooperation can have cross-border effects on developing countries;]] [[Whereas the Integrated Weighting Framework is applied structurally in the preparation and accountability of policies and regulations and the SDG test was added in 2019;]] [[Whereas two years after its introduction, it appears that the SDG test is still not being applied to legislative proposals;]] [[invites the government to include the SDG test standard in the Integrated Weighting Framework (IAK) for desired side effects in legislative proposals of the five main coherence ministries (BuHa-OS, State, Finance, EZK and LNV),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has set up a Fund to combat child prostitution;]] [[Noting that the government motion 35570-XVII, No. 36 which requires structural implementation of this fund, not fully implemented;]] [[Whereas the fight against child prostitution requires a long-term commitment;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to support civil society organisations fighting child prostitution in and after 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Government committed itself through the SDGs and the UN Disability Convention to international commitment to access to quality and inclusive education and access to decent work for all;]] [[whereas UNICEF states in its recent report that one in ten children and young people has a physical, auditory, visual or mental disability, that they are 50% less likely to have access to education and thus reduce their chances of employment;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify how children and young people with disabilities are achieved in the current programming and implementation of the youth, work and education policies of BHOS, including measurable targets to increase the impact on the inclusion of children and young people with disabilities, and to inform the Chamber annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder, Mr Hammelburg and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-40]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder, Mr Kuik, Mr Piri, Mr Hammelburg and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-41]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u198	There is still uncertainty as to the figures for the ODA rate. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the most recent data from the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, only 18% of the total ODA budget is spent through civil society organisations;]] [[noting that precisely (local) civil society organisations are ideally capable of reaching the most vulnerable into the heart of society;]] [[Having noted that in the past the Chamber adopted the Voordewind/Agnes Mulder motion (34300-XVII, No. 46) requested the government to monitor the use of 25% of ODA funds through civil society;]] [[calls on the government to aim for 25% of ODA resources to be spent through civil society organisations, and to report to the Court on this to the Spring paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u199	I'm ten seconds late, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u200	A little more, but I wish you a pleasant chat with your group secretary. Mrs Teunissen of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u201	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister very much for his reply. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that deforestation in the Cerrado.... the most biodiverse savannah in the world.. goes three times faster than deforestation in the Amazon forest due to the construction of agricultural land;]] [[noting that the European Commission has come up with a bill for deforestation-free products in which ecosystems other than forest areas are not protected;]] [[Whereas the Minister of LNV has taken the position that ecosystems other than forest areas should also be protected in the EU legislative proposal, but have not been supported at EU level;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is the largest importer and transit country of soya in the EU and is a co-cause of deforestation in Cerrado;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan to stop the Dutch import and transit of soya from the Cerrado,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u202	My next motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the international agreement to devote 0.7% of GNI to development cooperation has been reconfirmed when entering into the Sustainable Development Goals;]] [[Considering that the development budget (ODA budget) remains at a historically low rate of 0.53% of GNI in 2022 and that climate funding is paid out of the ODA budget;]] [[noting the international agreement that climate finance should be new and additional;]] [[calls on the government to make an investment plan this year to increase the ODA budget to 0.7% of GNI, additional to the Dutch fair share of public climate finance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Teunissen and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u203	Another motion on the ODA budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the international agreement to devote 0.7% of GNI to development cooperation has been reconfirmed when entering into the Sustainable Development Goals;]] [[Considering that the development budget (ODA budget) remains at a historically low rate of 0.53% of GNI in 2022 and that climate funding is paid out of the ODA budget;]] [[noting that the Lower House has previously expressed its intention to pursue an ODA budget of 0.7%;]] [[noting that the new German Government also incorporated the 0.7% in the coalition agreement;]] [[underlines the importance of taking substantial steps over the next four years to return to an ODA budget of 0.7%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u205	Thank you. Then Mrs Koekkoek from the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. In general too, I would like to express my thanks, because we often get the communication quickly and easily from the European Councils. Thank you to this Minister. Then I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU and Africa will enter into a new partnership next spring on, inter alia, digital transition, climate and rule of law;]] [[Whereas this partnership will be confirmed at a special political summit;]] [[Whereas this is reflected above all in keeping in mind the importance of African young people;]] [[considers that the EU should strive for a partnership based on equivalence;]] [[calls on the Government to play a leading role in the commitment to youth participation, education and employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Ceder, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Kuik, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Stoffer and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u207	And then there's a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the government has estimated EUR 345,712 million for the first-year reception of asylum seekers in the 2022 budget;]] [[Whereas these costs are expected to exceed the estimated budget and will then be recovered from Article 5.4 of the BHOS budget;]] [[Whereas, depending on the fluctuations in GNI, these costs will further reduce the development budget;]] [[calls on the Government to set a ceiling of 350 million for the use of funds from the BHOS budget for first-year reception for asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u208	I still have time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u209	Yes, you have time left. Congratulations. There's something else you can tell me if you want to say. No, don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u210	I thought we'd move on to lunch!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u211	Yes, we continue to lunch, but first Mr Eppink of the JA21 group. Looks like he left us. Then Mr. Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party. Mr Stoffer thinks that he is now getting the time of Mr Eppink, but that is not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u212	I only have one minute, right, Chairman? It says here I have two minutes. I just want one minute. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that women and girls are facing restrictions and exclusion around menstrual periods worldwide, due to stigmatisation, lack of information, limited availability or access to clean devices;]] [[Calls on the Government to set concrete and cross-sectoral targets in the field of mental health, including the provision of information and tools, as part of the wider deployment on SDG 6 (water, sanitation and hygiene) and within emergency aid programmes;]] [[calls on the Government to report explicitly to the Chamber on investment in mental health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, inter alia, the problems of corona, migration, climate and poverty justify a generous ODA budget in line with the OECD commitments;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the (more) costs of first-year reception of asylum seekers across the departments concerned and to aim for a broad additional climate funding specifically targeted at the poorest countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas women and girls worldwide are victims of urge or compulsion to have an abortion, but lack an in-depth understanding of this problem;]] [[calls on the Government to demonstrate that urge and compulsion against women to have an abortion does not occur in abortions financed directly or indirectly by the Netherlands, and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to aim at using 33% of ODA funds through civil society organisations and NGOs, as well as to identify how broad public funds can be used as leverage for private funding within the BHOS policy, and to report to the Court on this to the Spring paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-49]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-50]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-51]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u213	Mr. Chairman. Dutch foreign trade seems to have become Dutch companies leaving abroad. The powerlessness of the present cabinet to support the old trade spirit both in the Netherlands and abroad is disappointing. BVNL hopes that a next cabinet will make more work of a good locational environment in the Netherlands and a better competitive position of Dutch companies abroad. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I indicated that tax money spent on development aid is usually wasted money. This cabinet's commitment to paying care workers in Afghanistan with Dutch taxpayers' money while we ourselves are in the middle of a healthcare crisis is a good example of this. It is not in the interests of the Netherlands and therefore I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Dutch taxpayers' money threatens to pay care workers in Afghanistan;]] [[calls on the government not to transfer tax money to the Taliban, but to invest this money in healthcare in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Weerdenburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XVII-53]]
