ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the debate on the citizens' initiative 'Stop the dog tax', Section 35569. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as, of course, Mr Yanover, who is in the lodge, the MPs and the viewers at home. A brief introduction on my part, because it is quite extraordinary that there is a citizens' initiative. On 23 April 2019, Mr Gary Yanover offered this citizens' initiative, with 60,000 statements of support, to the House of Representatives. In autumn 2020, the Committee on Home Affairs decided that the initiative could be notified for plenary consideration. I am therefore pleased that today we can discuss the second citizens' initiative after the elections last March. It is the 17th citizens' initiative since the introduction of the citizens' initiative in 2006. Today, Mr Yanover is present in the Chamber to present the citizens' initiative. You're very welcome. Again, a warm welcome to all those who are looking at this particular debate; it is a citizens' initiative. Mr Yanover will present the citizens' initiative from the outset. I therefore ask the guardian of the Chamber to accompany him to the chair. Before I give you the floor, Mr. Yanover, I would like to discuss the following with the members. Because it is a citizens' initiative, the agreement is that Mr Yanover should not be interrupted. No questions should therefore be asked or comments made by Members of Parliament. Mr. Yanover has about five minutes of speaking time. Then the debate begins between you and the Minister, and also with each other. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Yanover for his contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u2	Thank you, Mr President, Members of the House of Representatives, Minister. "I find it difficult to explain that we still have the dog tax," says Ronald Plasterk, then Secretary of State, in December 2015. Like the Minister then, tens of thousands of dog owners still do not understand why they are being attacked for the dog tax. The dog tax has existed since the Middle Ages and is the oldest municipal tax that still exists. About nine years ago, I asked for a meeting with my municipality to talk about the dog tax. I was treated like a dog. Worse still, I caught a bone and was beaten up for the dog tax. Paying dog tax is a source of annoyance among many dog owners. They feel discriminated against. That is why I have launched the action against dog tax and this citizens' initiative 'Stop the dog tax'. Those who study this issue can only draw one conclusion: the levying of dog tax is in fact contrary to the principle of equality enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution. Holders of dogs are taxed, while keeping no other animal is taxed in the Netherlands. The proceeds come in favour of the general resources of a municipality. Municipalities pay out of these funds all kinds of provisions for their citizens. According to CBS, dog owners contributed approximately 50 million more to the overall funds in 2020 than non-dog owners. Dog owners seem to be allowed to pay an additional contribution for their facilities, while others are not required to do so. The levying of dog tax is not subject to rules. The proceeds vary from one municipality to another. In some municipalities, dog owners contribute millions of euros a year to the general budget, while in other municipalities no tax is levied. All this while everyone in the Netherlands should be treated equally in the same circumstances. You may think that the levying of dog tax is a local matter. After all, municipalities may levy this tax, but are not obliged to do so. Nothing could be further from the truth. The Empire is de facto about what municipalities may or may not introduce as taxes. As a result, the autonomy of the municipality can never be undermined. Municipalities do need income to carry out the tasks assigned to them. The dog owner wants these costs to be distributed more fairly. Unfortunately, many municipalities abuse the power to levy dog tax, causing dog owners to be taxed disproportionately, in order to cope with deficits in their budgets. Local drivers have no reason to make other considerations. This is too easy a solution to cover deficits. In 2013, the Supreme Court ruled that the levying of dog tax is permitted on the basis of the fact that it is permitted by law. The same council was not allowed to rule on whether the levying of the dog tax is contrary to the principle of equality, as described in Article 1 of the Constitution, because Article 120 of the same Constitution does not allow the review of adopted legislation. In other words, the ball is now with you, the politics. Research and discussion on the reform of the municipal tax system have been carried out for many years. The Rinnooy Kan Committee of the Association of Dutch Municipalities advocates the abolition of the dog tax. A report by the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the Working Party on the Revision of the Municipal Tax Area, states that abolishing the dog tax leads to greater equality and proportionality in local burdens, less transferability, less arbitrariness and a level playing field for pet owners. The umbrella organisation of municipalities therefore calls for abolition. The Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations concludes that dog tax leads to inequality and randomness. There is therefore no reason to maintain the dog tax. Adapting the Municipal Law to repeal the legal power of municipalities to levy dog tax is simpler and faster than a whole system change. That is why I urge all the groups in this Chamber not to wait any longer, but to listen to the wishes of over 60,000 voters, as expressed in this citizens' initiative 'Stop the dog tax'. What is more important: the autonomy of the municipalities or the constitutional rights of the citizen? Take action now to remove Article 226 from the municipal law, and make it impossible to levy further dog tax in the Netherlands! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. Yanover. I'll ask the messenger to escort you back to the lodges. A very nice speech. I always think it's very handsome of someone who isn't used to debating to bring such a strong story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u4	I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66. I want to meet with the Chamber: four first-term questions to each other, and then four first-term questions to the Minister. Everyone has four minutes, with the exception of the Van Haga Group. But Mr Smolders has his maiden speech, so today we are dealing with it more flexibly. I give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not know if what you said is true, that Mr Yanover has no experience of debating, because I was allowed to speak with him just before this debate, and I thought I could see eight years of experience debating this subject. But my compliments to him, and thank you for initiating this debate of principle and for trying so hard to get signatures for it. And even though I have often had discussions in this Chamber over the past few years about the local tax area and the municipal finances, apparently never about the dog tax. That was different when I was spokesperson for Finance in the city council of The Hague; then there were always nice debates about it. The historical background has already been outlined by the initiator: rabies; a kind of pandemic prevention avant la lettre. But I also think, in principle, that there is a reasoning in 'polluter pays' or 'user pays'. But quite rightly a number of problems with the dog tax have been identified. Firstly, it is of course selective; for why, for example, are horses not taxed in the same way? And a stone of offence is also that the revenues are higher than the costs of asylum, ambulance, waste, exhaust lanes and so on, of course, by municipalities. But also in the building block note on that new tax area.............................................................................................................................................................................................. These are the problems with the regulation of art and the dog tax as a perspective, but there are also problems from the perspective of municipalities that I like to highlight. In recent years, we have decentralised tasks without sufficient money, which have often been discussed. As a result, many municipalities are now in deficit. That is why it would go a long way if the House were suddenly to pay 51 million a year for this. Municipalities also often have limited policy freedom in carrying out tasks. The municipal autonomy is not quite what it should be, let me put it this way. Today we also received a letter from the Association of Dutch Municipalities asking for attention. I would like to hear how the Minister looks at this initiative and this proposal, in the light of Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act, which we often refer to. The more fundamental, structural problem with the lack of autonomy in the Netherlands also concerns financial relations. Local charges represent 8% of total government revenue, while the European average is 19%, so municipalities are highly dependent on the State. In my view, this structural problem is not only economically ill-advised; it also leads to suboptimal local democracy. As far as D66 is concerned, the local tax area tends to be larger than smaller. As far as I am concerned, we could certainly abolish this dog tax, but as part of that integrated assessment. The Rinnooy Kan Committee has made proposals for this, indeed, but this discussion has been going on for a long time. I had also hoped that more parties would do something with that in the last round of election programmes and their passing on. I hope that this initiative can help to further this discussion, so that we can achieve a careful elimination of this dog tax, in a movement that will make the local tax area bigger and not smaller. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u6	An interruption by Mr Wassenberg, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u7	Mr Sneller rightly says that the polluter pays, but that is not the case in this case. I've been asking around, too. There are people who think that the money from that dog tax is getting rid of the shit or the shit, but it's not. The money from that dog tax goes directly to the general budget, so it is not the polluter who pays but the dog owner who pays. It has nothing to do with pollution. I even read in a CBS study that it can even have a counterproductive effect, because dog owners who pay more than €100 for their dog, think: I pay so much anyway, then I don't have to clean up what my dog leaves behind. That's a counterproductive effect. The polluter pays, fine, but what is the pollution here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u8	If Mr Wassenberg takes this perverse effect seriously, I think a lot of his plans would disappear. I said the user pays and the polluter pays. It is quite true, of course, that this is not a target tax. In some municipalities, the waste tax has to be cost-effective, but that is not the case in this case. That's what I mentioned as one of the problems. Revenues are often higher than costs. But there are indeed municipalities that are trying to calculate those costs, and I mean from the user and the polluter to see what they need and what revenues they need for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u9	The user pays, but the user of what? Does Mr Sneller therefore intend, for example, to introduce a bicycle tax? Or as Napoleon did in 1812: a window load? The user already pays, because someone who has a dog has already lost enough to the cost of food, accommodation and the veterinarian, if necessary. Then where do you put the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u10	This is an interesting discussion. That is why I was pleased with the discussion of principle. Does Mr Wassenberg also think that you should pay for use when it comes to cars? I think it is right that, given the extra claim to public space and to the environment, for example, there is an additional levy. I think there may indeed be a reason to say that there is disproportionate use of certain facilities and that you pay something extra for them. Of course, we do this in many different ways. The conclusion I draw is: let's make sure that we do abolish her. These principles can also be implemented in very different ways and better in that local tax area. But to unilaterally abolish her now and say "sorry, municipality, here you have a shortage" is too short a turn, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u11	Mr President, last but not least. Mr Sneller says that if you make disproportionate use of something, it is logical that you pay for it. But that is not the case here, because it goes to the general budget. The point is that the municipality can lift this to cover deficits in municipal funding. It is not a question of whether or not to use proportionately. It just goes to the general budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u12	Then I would like to look forward to an initiative by Mr Wassenberg to make it a target tax provision in Article 226 of the Municipal Act. That is not the proposal before us. That is not the proposal I read that Mr Wassenberg is in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u13	Where exactly D66 stands, I'm not clear. Is it for or against this citizens' initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u14	In this way, so without proper agreements or an extension of the local tax area, we are opposed to the proposal as set out in the initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u15	So D66 says: because we want a lot more taxation in the local area, we are now opposed to abolishing it, and that is now before us. In fact, I think that is wrong. But how does D66 deal with the fact that it is just a very unfair tax, because there are a lot of municipalities that do not charge it at all and because there are plenty of municipalities, such as the city of The Hague, that do very different things with it? So you get the situation that only someone's desire to have a pet animal, in this case a dog, leads to a tax. So it leads to randomness. Isn't that a principle that should be considered for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u16	I am a little surprised that Mrs Leijten is such a supporter of this. For I do not see where, for example, I am referring to what the alderman of youth care is going to have to cut back on Mrs Leijten. That is what is being proposed if there are no other things to be dealt with. I didn't see a proposal for that. Furthermore, I think it is quite logical that I have been looking for majorities in debates for years to increase and not reduce that local tax area. What is proposed here is a reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u17	What the local alderman has to cut young people down on is a problem that keeps D66 alive. These decentralised tasks do not give enough money and now the dog owner is talking about it, of course, is total quatsch! But this shows exactly what D66 is doing. That doesn't want to pay for it, so say to anyone who wants to have a dog: you pay with it. That is the principle behind this debate. We are in favour of abolishing the dog tax, because it is unfair. At many local SP initiatives, dog taxes have already been abolished. We need to ensure that municipalities are given the money to carry out the legal tasks properly. D66 is always empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u18	I believe that I have provided cover there and Mrs Leijten is handing out free money here. This is in itself a very recognizable chorus of the Socialist Party, but it is disappointing for all those local politicians to whom Mrs Leijten says: from next year you will not have the 50 million and will not have the success.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u19	This is your last interruption again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u20	Yeah, but this is entrapment. What Mr Sneller says here, "that's how we know the SP again," I really think D66 is arrogant. Every debate on municipal taxes, every spring note and every autumn note we come up with money and coverage to make sure that our municipalities can do what they do, so they don't have to close either the pool or the library. It is D66 policy, even in times of prosperity, even in times of crisis, that the municipalities should organise their facilities nicely at that level. In doing so, the choice is in scarcity, democracy and provision is being undermined, and the taxpayer really is not getting enough value for his money, namely a government that does not deliver. And that's what D66 does. And then say, "We know the SP again." No, you decentralise tasks, I say to Mr Sneller. D66 decentralises important tasks without delivering the money. That's the real story here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u21	As spokesman for finance, I have seen many amendments from the SP in recent years, and the coverage is always 'general resources', i.e. 'Minister for Finance, figure it out, but pick it up from the taxpayer'. There was a time to say: this is where we get it from, and so much money we have left for municipalities. Then it wasn't the SP that... I could have had this from the PvdA, for example. But when it came down to it, the SP didn't pay enough money for the municipalities. So she has no right to speak. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u22	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smolders of the Van Haga Group for his maiden speech. Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy also asked if he could make his contribution after Mr Smolders, because he has another chamber activity. I'll see if there's any objection. There isn't. Thanks for the flexibility. Then I give the floor to Mr Smolders for his maiden speech. Good luck! It's a special moment. I like your colleagues, too. That's always nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, very briefly about the debate we have just had. Mr. Sneller said, "Go explain it to those local politicians." Here's one of the biggest parties in Tilburg. I think I fully support Mrs Leijten: a well-founded plan can be handled creatively. That is what Mrs Leijten is referring to, I think. So think positively! Then we'll come a long way. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiator and the person who helped him on his perseverance and his years of commitment to bringing this proposal in. Of course, that's good, because it's not that easy. I would also like to thank the 60,000 signatories. Mr. Chairman. It's very special for me to be standing here today. In 2002 I have been a Member of Parliament for a short time. I'm also grateful that today I'm able to do my maiden speech at all, because I'm going to have to have surgery on my lung for the fourth time soon. In 2002, but again, I was skilfully and warmly welcomed by the Griffin staff and the entire Room Support, including the messengers, cleaners and security guards. So today is my maiden speech, which is about abolishing the dog tax. For the people who watch at home, I give some explanation about my maiden speech. This one starts with a personal input. Because I have moved on with two other Members of Parliament as Group Van Haga, I get much less speaking time here today. Mr. Chairman. I was born in Tilburg and I grew up next to the ice rink in a popular neighborhood. I spent a lot of time at that rink. At the age of 11, I went to hockey. The hockey connoisseurs said that I was way too old to reach the top. Yet within a few years I was in the Dutch Junior Team, in the first team of Tilburg Trappers and then in the Dutch Team. In top sport, my character has been shaped for the rest of my life. That's where I learned how to deal with setbacks. That is where my perseverance has been developed, a perseverance like that of the initiators of this citizens' initiative. That's where I learned how important it is to work together. Now, at the age of 60, I am convinced that the education of a child by parents, a team sport and so on, among others, is perhaps even more important than the knowledge a child gets at school. This knowledge is of course also important, but above all this education is important. After all, you can acquire as much knowledge as you want later on at any desired age, especially if you are a perseverant. With this sturdy base, I already had my own refrigeration company at the age of 23. At the age of 40, I sold that successful company. This gave me more free time and I promised to help Pim Fortuyn for four months with all kinds of hand- and spanning services. When Pim was killed in Hilversum in front of me, it had a huge impact. A few years later I wanted to show that there could also be much and much better governance locally. That's why I participated in the elections as List Smolders in 2006. In the meantime, we've been the biggest party for years. As a local party in my beautiful city of Tilburg, I saw that the proceeds of the dog tax year in, year out, most of them ended up in general funds, Mr. Sneller. As a representative of the people, I think that this is very unfair, because it complements the general resources over the back of the dog owners. Fortunately, many city councils have already decided to abolish the dog tax. If municipalities lack money on their budget, they should be honest about it, not close that budget with part of the dog tax. Here in The Hague it is 2 million a year, in Tilburg it is 1.6 million a year. Then there is another important argument. On the contrary, politics must reward good behaviour on the part of citizens and not punish them with a dog tax. That good behavior also applies to the overwhelming majority of dog owners, who keep their dog on the leash and tidy up the dog shit. For the citizens who are so rude not to clean up the dog shit in their congregation, the fine should be raised considerably, as far as I am concerned, which is why the polluter pays. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. Let us work together with as many parties as possible to remove Article 226 of the Municipal Law, so that the municipalities that still do so can no longer make improper use of that dog tax. Let us also translate the rewarding of good behavior of citizens into all municipalities, by removing the legal basis for the dog tax here in the Lower House. In my second term, I will table a motion to delete Article 226 of the Municipal Act. Mr. Chairman. That was my maiden speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Smolders. Congratulations on your lovely maiden speech. I'm glad you're here, considering what you said. You're a perseverant, and I hope you can do a lot here in the Chamber. I suggest that we suspend briefly so that you can receive the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u25	Let's move on to the debate. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations, congratulations and many thanks to Mr Yanover for putting this on the agenda. It's a good thing we're talking about that as a room right now. Congratulations to Mr. Smolders for his maiden speech and strength for the surgery that is about to come. Wish for a quick recovery. Mr. Chairman. A debate on dog tax. In the run-up to the debate, I did a little research in my circle of acquaintances, friends, about what they think of dog tax. Most thought it was a bad idea, a bit like the people in the Netherlands. Most Dutch think it's a bad idea. But those who thought it was a good idea said to me: dogs poop on the street, that should clean up the city, so it makes sense that they are paid for it. The polluter pays, as Mr Sneller says. But that's not where the dog tax money goes. It's not going to clean up the poop. It's not going to fight the nuisance. It goes to the general budget. That dog tax is used to supplement municipal finances and nothing else. I'd just made a comparison. Imagine the municipality saying right away: you know what, we're also going to set a tax on having bicycles. The country would be too small. We've had something like this before in the Netherlands. We've had the window load. It was introduced by Napoleon. If a house had lots of windows, you'd pay a lot of taxes. That was a completely arbitrary tax, a totally unreasonable tax, but it existed for decades until it was abolished by the end of the nineteenth century. That tax was also arbitrary, unreasonable, without purpose, but you had to pay. Mr. Chairman. There is no justification for that dog tax either. That tax makes an artificial distinction between owners of dogs and those of other pets and has no reasonable purpose. Dog owners are used to supplement the municipal greenhouse. Hence my request to the Minister: remove the dog tax. Mr. Chairman. The problem is: as long as we allow dogs to be sold via Marketplace or Facebook, as long as we do not control that dog trade, as long as we continue to allow 80,000 dogs to come to our country from Eastern Europe, often with forged papers, uninhabited, sometimes sick, as long as those 80,000 dogs, which come from breeding plants in Hungary, are sold through false intermediaries on Facebook and Marketplace, we keep the problems. In many cases they also cause owners with big problems, because those dogs often have a lot of things under their skin. They're sick, they're poorly socialized, they're traumatized, and those are the real problems. All this is done under the supervision of the inspection service. The NVWA didn't or hardly control the dog farm. Deloitte wrote that last year in a report about the NVWA. Since corona, NVWA has not even controlled the private dog trade at all. That's where the problem is. Mr. Chairman. Instead of leaving a fine on dog ownership, because that is the dog tax actually, my proposal would be to tackle the problem at the front, with breeders, with traders, with sellers. A dog is not a disposable item. They're often considered that way. You can easily order a dog over the internet than a garden furniture set. You look him up, you click the Internet, you pay and you can pick him up. A garden set is often harder to order. That's where the big problem really is. Dogs are considered disposable. They were brought into the house by people with corona in large numbers. Animal shelters are already holding their hearts before the pandemic is over and all those dogs end up in the shelter. That's the problem. Mr. Chairman. Finally, enter that legal reflection period for buying a pet. Allow breeders, intermediaries and sellers who make substantial money from the sale of pets via a fund to pay for the reception of asylum animals. Then the problem will really be solved. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u27	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy, because I had agreed to let him go a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be very brief so that I do not get in the way of my contribution. I want to thank the initiator. I think it's very important. It's very good that it's being discussed today. I also welcome the fact that citizens' initiatives are now more frequent in the Chamber. I expect that might be a trend that will continue. It is therefore very good that citizens should be heard and able to speak here in the Chamber. I think that's a very nice development. We fully agree on the dog tax, because it must be abolished. That must be done as quickly as possible. I also hope that the Chamber will see that and that will happen. It has just been outlined a few times why the dog tax is a great injustice. There is a great deal of difference between municipalities, but for reasons of principle it is strange to impose an animal tax. A dog is a friend, it's not a post on a budget. So we simply think that it is also strange in principle. We need to get rid of this tax. One thing that has been going on here for decades, of course, is that taxes are getting higher and higher at all. This seems like a very good start to lower taxes. I therefore hope that there will soon be debates on other taxes that we are about to abolish. I look forward to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u29	Thank you. Short but powerful, but there is still an interruption by Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u30	We were talking about the waste tax and there single-person households pay a lower rate than two-person households. My partner isn't a thing either, but someone I love, but he pays extra taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u31	But I take it you're not married to a dog.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u32	In fact, I'm not married at all. Why should extra taxes be levied on this person, but not on a dog? I do not quite understand the point of principle "it is a friend and therefore not a tax."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u33	I find that an interesting philosophical question. We do tax people, but the waste tax is of course not a tax on a human being, but on the waste that is produced. Here is the property of the beast that is burdened. It is not the case that you are taxed for possession of your partner, but if you had a dog, you would be taxed for possession of your dog. I see a very substantial difference here. I can tell by your face that you do not recognize this difference, but perhaps we will get out of this at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. Then I give the floor to Mr De Kort of the VVD for his first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Hans Smolders on his very beautiful maiden speech. I would also, of course, like to congratulate the initiator for his involvement and for the large number of signatures he has collected. It's very handsome, and I already congratulated him on that before the debate, because that's something Mr. President should be proud of. The dog tax is also called the dachshundaks. The VVD is for low and fair loads and with these dachshunds you can't really talk about an honest burden. It has already been named: if you go back in history, you see that this is a tax from the late Middle Ages, 1446, to fight rabies. So you can talk about an outdated tax. I wonder what the Minister thinks of this. Does she consider this to be an outdated municipal tax? A number of colleagues have already indicated that this "fair" tax is not levied in all municipalities. In fact, the last ten years have seen fewer and fewer municipalities levy this tax. At present, this tax is no longer levied in some 46% of the municipalities. So you can have the situation that the neighbor has to pay for this tax and not the neighbor if they both live in the outskirts near the municipal border. And that while they might be walking their dog in the same area! In any case, that is a particularly unfair situation. In addition, the rates of this dog tax, because they can be very different. It can be €0, but it can also be two tens. In Groningen you even have to pay over €130 to own a dog. The VVD considers that this tax is actually very unfair. Finally. It is not a target tax either, because it is freely expendable. As a result, not all municipalities spend the proceeds of this tax on what it should be intended for. I have two more questions for the Minister. Does the Minister see the possibility of not reintroducing the teckeltaks in municipalities that have already abolished him? Does she see that possibility? That's what I'm curious about. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister if she is prepared to talk to the VNG. We understand that it is difficult for municipalities to remove this tax immediately. We want to get rid of this weird tax in the long run, but would it like to talk to the UNG to see how that could be done and what would be a reasonable transitional period? So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u36	Thank you. There are a few follow-up questions. First of all, Mr Wassenberg, Party for Animals. He's got one more interruption left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u37	That's a good story. If the Party for Animals agrees with the VVD, then something is going on. So that's good to notice. The VVD says, in the long run, we have to get rid of it. Then I want to know when "in time" is. We are going to table a motion asking the Minister to stop allowing the levying of dog tax. Is the VVD going to support that? If not, what is the deadline? Are we talking about a year, ten years, 20 years? When does the VVD want to get rid of the dog tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u38	At least it's nice to hear that we're obviously somewhat in agreement with each other. I, as a representative of the people and my group, think it is a strange tax, so we want to get rid of it in the long term. But I also think that's what the cabinet is about. That is why I am asking the Minister to discuss this with the UNG, because then it will be possible to assess what is a reasonable period of time. I could make a suggestion, but I am particularly curious about the Minister and the discussion with the VNG. We used to have the Wet precario underground cables and pipes. The transitional period was five years. That is an option, but I would particularly like to call on the Minister to discuss this with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u39	But then I fully understand the VVD that there does not need to be alternative coverage or compensation for those municipalities, while the VVD promises a sound financial position for municipalities in the election programme and even says 'we should look at the scaling-up discount and maybe abolish it'. Instead, there is now a plea to get 50 million out of the local tax area, and "find it out locally."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u40	No, I'm talking about a reasonable transition period. The discussion you are talking about is about reviewing the Municipal Fund. I think we're going to receive a letter from the Minister this month. I'm very curious about that, too. Then we should have that conversation with each other. But I'm not talking about compensation by definition, because then you'd be rewarding municipalities that still charge dog tax. I also think it is important for the Minister to look into this and, therefore, to discuss it with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u41	It is quite clear that Mr De Kort confirms that he does not want compensation for these municipalities, but that he does want to abolish this tax. Then, of course, the follow-up question is: how much does he want to increase the ozb in these municipalities? Or how much does he want to cut back on packing him bit the social services?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u42	I don't confirm anything at all, do I? I think it is important for the Minister to talk to the VNG. Then it is not necessarily the case that if the dog tax is no longer there in the long term, the ozb goes up. I myself, as a former alderman and former council member, know that other choices can be made locally. Slimmer government or smarter buying, you name it. But I do think that if we are to abolish this in the long term, there should be a reasonable transitional period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u43	There was no compensation at the precario either. Mr De Kort is in favour of abolishing him for five years. That was in precario, I believe, the transitional period. No compensation. And then, after all the stories about all the deficits, of all the aldermen of the VVD house, of the VNG we've had here, the tear-cracking stories also in the VVD election programme on the financial position of municipalities, is now his message: I do know some ways. "A slimmer government?" I don't think that's a story we can get to congregations with. Neither does the VVD, and certainly not if the problem is then simply put on the Minister's plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u44	Mr. Sneller is trying again, but that is a very different discussion, which is about the re-evaluation of the Municipal Fund. That's not what this is about. In particular, I would like to point out that we consider this tax, which is a very special tax, and that we simply want to say goodbye to it in the long term, but in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. De Kort, for your first term. Then I give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u46	Mr. Chairman. Hans Smolders is of course a huge hero. Let's be clear about that. On one of the darkest days in post-war history, he rose above himself and showed himself to a man. I find it touching that he is here today, because that connects us with someone who should have been sworn in here as MP, Pim Fortuyn, but who never arrived here. I bow in the direction of Smolders for what he did that day and for how he stood up. It is good that he is here and I wish him well. I am sure that I speak on behalf of everyone. Mr. Chairman. When this showed up on our schedule a week ago, I felt like it. I've been looking forward to it for a week. That's a lovely subject. Everyone also rides their own pet horse: the Animal Party about the animals and Mr. Sneller from Home Affairs. I've been thinking about whether I should be speaking my lines or barking at him. But, yeah, I've been barking at the minister for four years, so I figured you'd have to do something different at some point. That citizens' initiative will, of course, prove its strength. We owe that to Mr. Dubbelboer of the Labour Party, who introduced this instrument. Today it proves its worth. The Labour Party, of course, has gone all the way in the area of direct democracy and has now helped to demolish the referendum, so we can see the degeneration of social democracy in this area again. How does this citizens' initiative prove its worth? There is a possibility that the press claims that we are going to abolish this dog tax. We in the House of Representatives have never even tabled a motion in recent years to abolish that dog tax, so we needed an outsider who woke us up, collected 60,000 signatures and whispered to us something we had not come up with the idea of doing it ourselves. So I also take a deep bow in the direction of today's petitioner. It's good to just have people out here on the floor. There's one thing I do wonder about. That citizens' initiative is, of course, something of ours as a Lower House. On the site of the House of Representatives you can see which rules it has to comply with. One of the rules is that it should not be about taxation, so we are actually doing something about our own instrument that is not supposed to be. I would like to put that question to the Minister, but it is not about it because it is the House of Representatives. This can be read back on the secondkamer.nl website. Mr. Chairman. The dog is, of course, just the most loyal friend of man. He's a socialist, and he's a pet. Bello, Fifi or Wodan is often part of the family. There is another element that has not yet been mentioned: dogs and dog owners ensure safety. Why don't you walk down the street at 11:00 in the evening? Then you see a lot of people with their doggy and that contributes to a sense of safety on the street. Not in the islamized neighborhoods, because there is no dog there. That is also very important, so we should actually reward dog owners and not punish them. Take a look at Search Requested, a program that is now caltgestellt by NPO66. There you see very often that cases are solved by just a dog owner walking down the street. He's been paying attention and can help solve the case. Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, finally. We get a lot of emails, including from the beautiful Haren. Haren, we know that, because that was demolished by this minister, just like 40 other municipalities. Haren is now part of the municipality of Groningen and then they got something they didn't have, namely the highest dog tax in the Netherlands. They have also been affected in other ways: building tax by roof, precario, tourist tax, waste tax, fees, greening down, et cetera, et cetera. So this is what happens when you go to these weird municipal reclassifications: you take away the decision from the people themselves and you park it with large municipalities. That must be an extra reason to abolish that dog tax. With great pleasure I have co-signed Mr Smolder's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u47	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our group also congratulates Mr Smolders on his maiden speech. Mr Bosma mentioned Groningen. There you indeed pay €133 tax for a dog. For a second dog, that will be €200. And I've been calculating: if you have five dogs in Groningen, you pay €1,167 dog tax. That's a lot. And then you probably have to walk them through the exhaust service. So these have become precious things. I therefore thank Mr Yanover for the initiative. It's very well done: 60,000 signatures. He's been working on it for seven years, or even eight years. He is therefore genuinely a perseverant: compliments. We fully support this. We can quietly say it's a milk cow. The discussion has taken place. I know we collected three tons of dog tax in Rotterdam. Mrs Kathmann will remember that, too. And two tons were spent with difficulty. To do so, people had to twist themselves into all sorts of turns. But there was just real money in the greenhouse. So it's a milk cow, and it shouldn't be. A dog is nice, a dog is good. A dog is good for loneliness. Loving a dog is sporting, because it brings you out. It lets you live healthier and it's good against the unification. In short, keeping a dog is very good and a dog is nice to have; I think everyone can see that. Mr Bosma had a few very sensible remarks about the search. We used to call it the Charlie's Angels, the city's angels who go out with their dog. You're gonna see something again. A lot of neighborhood preventions also have the dog as a weapon. Mr. Chairman. We do not see anything in this milk cow and we are therefore in favour of abolishing the dog tax. Finally, we are also in favour of the overall reduction of these burdens. This is a good start, but we shouldn't pretend to get something in return. D66 then makes another attempt to initiate a new tax area. No, you just have to cut your expenses. That's what we did in Rotterdam. Just, indeed, screwing around. You don't have to pretend that you're going to have to tax the citizens again by another way. Does the ozb go up? No, it's not! Try to slow down. That would be a good job for all of us. I have one more question for the Minister. How many people pay dog tax? When I was alderman in Capelle, I used to run a sample. At that time, a lot of people simply did not pay this tax at all, because that is not being controlled. My question is, is that true? Is the tax moral just very low on dog tax? I think so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We therefore wholeheartedly support this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u49	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by thanking Mr Smolders for his inspiring words, and especially for his maiden speech. And I would like to thank Mr Yanover for the citizens' initiative. I think this is a very good example. We would like to see more of such a direct way of slinging something into the Chamber. I would also like to say that the Dutch should never feel that they are being used as a milk cow when it comes to collecting tax dollars, so dog owners are not either. It must always be clear why these tokens are collected and to which they are issued. In general terms, this does not have to stand in the way at all, but the amounts must be realistic. Because the amounts for dog tax vary by municipality and it also differs by municipality how insightful it is where the money is spent again, I understand that at first glance you can think: well, then cancel the whole dog tax. But if you look further, you will see that in those 200+ municipalities the debate about whether or not to pay dog tax in the city council is incredibly dynamic. I am a child of local politics, and many debate about this is precisely where I stand on the retina. And that is precisely why I would like to leave that system as it is. First, there must be a sharp debate in all these municipal councils, and then a decision must be taken on whether or not to tax dogs and, if so, on the amount of the money. For a concrete city with a lot of high-rise construction, the dogproofing of your city is quite different than for a small municipality with much more nature. Also nuisance or need for exhaust spots where the dog can go loose, are simply incredibly different per municipality. We've been talking here for months about how to get that citizen closer to politics. On the one hand, you do this with, for example, a citizens' initiative; that is the ironic thing. But on the other hand, local politics plays a very important role in this. And now we finally have a topic that is discussed locally incredibly dynamically, namely the dog tax. In Rotterdam it is called the "woof-taxe." During the municipal elections the dog tax was mentioned in all party programs and even in the local dial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u51	An interruption by Mr De Kort, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u52	You are talking about bringing the citizen closer to politics. Madam President, it is the second citizens' initiative during this period. More than 60,000 signatures have been collected and perhaps more. Then this is a good example of what the citizen wants and is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u53	We are going to the ballot box, I think, on 16 March 2022. Then the whole of the Netherlands goes, so millions of people go to the ballot box. Also not every municipality chooses to levy this tax. That means that all the millions of people who go to the polls have thought about this, have given their voice and perhaps have said: "In this church? No way!" That's where the tax is zero. In this respect, the voice of the citizen in the local debate is already well settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u54	I understand that, but how does the PvdA view citizens' initiatives in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u55	I very much commend the citizens' initiative, I have just said. It is a very nice way to get immediate decision-making in the Chamber. However, it has not been said that any proposal we are discussing here will be answered with a yes, which you know better than I do. But it is the most beautiful way to involve citizens directly and quickly in decision-making. The dog tax is precisely a subject on which local dynamic debates are taking place and in which the citizens are already fully involved in the decision-making process. That is why the differences between municipalities are so great. One does, the other doesn't. One has a high amount, perhaps too high a amount. But let us make sure that we all have something to choose on 16 March 2022. Then I really hope that if municipalities choose to maintain the tax, perhaps lower it or introduce it a little bit, the political decision-making will say: do a waiver for minima. Because anyone, regardless of the size of your wallet, should be able to afford a pet like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u56	Thank you, Mrs Kathmann. Then I give the floor to Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the citizens' initiative on the abolition of dog tax. I thank the author. The compliments to Mr Smolders were justified. As far as I'm concerned: the more Brabanders in The Hague, the better it is for me. The same goes for Mr Smolders; welcome. There is much to be said for the abolition. 'Cause why tax dogs and not cats? Many municipalities have already abolished the dog tax. The proceeds of the dog tax are not used in all municipalities to organize, for example, exhaust fields or facilities for cleaning up dog poop and people with a narrow scholarship, for whom a dog is sometimes the only comfort, are hunted at cost. The dog tax is a strange duck in the bite. It is therefore commendable that people take the trouble to write an initiative that also produces so many signatures; compliments. Yet today the CDA is not going to say that we must abolish such barkaks from The Hague as quickly as possible. I'll explain why. Mr. Chairman. Dog tax is a municipal tax. On the basis of Article 226 of the Municipal Law, municipalities may levy dog tax. Some municipalities do, others do not, and it is the democratically elected city council that currently decides whether such a dog tax in a municipality is a good idea or not. That is not what the Lower House is about in the first instance. No matter how beautiful the words of the advocates of abolition in this house are, not a dog owner who gets on with it in the short term. That's what we call a beautiful Dutch proverb called "the dog holding a coat," or giving people false hope. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the Lower House can decide to amend the Municipal Act. Those who are in favour of abolition must certainly try to do so. But there are some hooks and eyes on it. First of all, can't a higher government just call it "the Empire" by changing the law suddenly blow a hole in the municipal budget? I was an alderman. I can see it: we have had a debate in the Lower House and now I have a gap in my budget. There will therefore have to be compensation for municipalities. But, yes, how big is the compensation and where does the money come from? Will only municipalities that levy dog tax receive compensation? What about municipalities that have a higher ozb tax and no dog tax at all? Is that fair? Mr. Chairman. I was once alderman in Oss, one of the municipalities where there is still a dog tax. But it is seen as a target tax there. The euro collected from dog tax is also spent on dogs through exhaust points, clean-up operations, plastic bumps and so on. Has it ever been considered, I ask the Minister, to legally probe that dog tax could be a target tax, like, for example, sewer tax? Finally. I agree with the authors of the citizens' initiative that for many reasons the dog tax is a strange duck, but we are not going to take care of it here today. As far as I know, the abolition of dog tax is not included in any election programme and I have just heard that there has never been any mention of it in recent decades. But I haven't looked at all the election programs, so I'd like to get better at this point. Here and there we are discussing the extension of the municipal tax area. I ask the Minister to include the dog tax in her talks with the VNG when she talks about the tax area. I await the outcome of that. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u58	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u59	Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said to Mr Smolders. I would like to say congratulations on your maiden speech, welcome again to this Chamber and hopefully for a long time in good health. To the initiator of this citizens' initiative, Mr Yanover, I say thank you for taking a citizens' initiative. I hope it inspires people to also present a citizens' initiative. It must indeed comply with a number of rules. There is also a special committee looking into this. Members of parliament look very seriously at whether a citizens' initiative can go through. This is a good way to put something on the agenda that is not being discussed. The crazy thing is that this subject is discussed locally a lot. Mrs. Kathmann said so. This minister was in an earlier life alderman in Amsterdam. There was a colleague of the VVD, D66 and the SP. This tax was also abolished in Amsterdam in 2014 at the request of the SP. There are plenty of municipalities in which we have also taken this initiative. Because taxes must be fair and serve a purpose. The income tax, the income tax, which almost no longer exists for large companies, and the waste tax have a clear subject and a clear purpose. In this sense, it is about organising solidarity. But the dog tax is only there for dog owners. That's hundreds of thousands of people with a dog, they're having fun with, or they need it, for example, because it's a help dog. You know that yourself from your time as Health Care spokesperson, Chairman. A tax intended for the construction of fields or cleaning costs would be justified if necessary. That is a target tax, but we now see that the dog tax disappears in the general pot. There are also municipalities that do carry out these tasks, think of cleaning up poo fields, but do not levy this tax. Do you know what it is? There are also other pets that cause nuisance. Cats cause trouble. The same may apply to the rooster that crows every morning. But we also have no discussion about a cat or cock load. There is, of course, pollution of public space. Maintenance is a task that the municipality has in any case. If it's about keeping that clean, we're very much in favour of whoever doesn't clean up his mess or his dog shit getting a hell of a fine on enforcement. Then the polluter pays principle has really been introduced. That's a fairer tax. Mr. Chairman. It was all about getting into the papers when you got dogs. Here in The Hague you pay about €500 per year. You don't pay anything in Rotterdam. It's also a form of inequality. Reason enough to abolish this tax. We shall therefore be delighted to sign Mr Smolder's motion. The SP understands very well that municipalities are not waiting for a further reduction in their revenue collection, but we do believe that this problem needs to be tackled more fundamentally. I had an interrupting debate with Mr Sneller on this. We have proposed adding one billion to the Community fund. On the next spring note, we'll do it for 200 million. And yes, there is a cover against that. And yes, that is also the budgetary law that we have. We also propose, for example, to introduce a millionaire tax, because we will then have more general resources. We propose to increase the tax on profits, so that the big companies will pay to all of us. But yes, tax avoidance is still allowed, and the dog owner gets caught. I don't think that's good. So we support this plea. We ask the Minister to seriously finance the municipalities for the important tasks they have and not to pass this on to people who like to have a dog.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u60	Thank you. There is a question from Mr De Kort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u61	The SP wants to go a little further than the VVD and clearly indicates that they want to say goodbye to the dachshunds immediately. The question I have to ask Mrs Leijten is whether she agrees with the VVD that it would be a good idea for the Minister to talk to the VNG to see how this tax can be abolished and to look for a reasonable transitional period. How does the SP look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u62	If that tax goes away in the long run, it's better than if it doesn't disappear. But I am actually wondering whether that question was also asking Mr Wassenberg what we are deciding here today. We'll put it in the hands of the minister. The VNG is resisting now. Now it's going to be very difficult to negotiate local resources. I don't see a key. One municipality has the dog tax, the other is too high or too low. We should, I think, rather see if municipalities can get out of their way with the finances they have for the tasks they have. In times of crisis, it has been decided that a substantial additional amount will go to the municipalities in order to carry out the youth care task properly. I think we all make the assessment that decentralisation has a negative impact on the level of provision, which we all consider important, in villages, cities and neighbourhoods. I do not really want to mix that with the retention or elimination of the dog tax. An intermediate step is always better than doing nothing, but I would like to make it clear that we are abolishing this tax and that we are having a good discussion about the tasks of the municipalities and the money they get for it. You know the position of the SP in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. The Minister has indicated that she needs a few minutes to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u64	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. May I first congratulate the initiator on this citizens' initiative 'Stop the dog tax'? Thanks also to Mr Yanover for his presentation earlier. I congratulate him on obtaining the necessary statements of support to be able to present his petition to the House of Representatives, thus achieving the fact that we are debating this today. I would also like to congratulate Mr Smolders on his very beautiful, impressive maiden speech. He finds in me a fellow hockey fan. Mr. Chairman. We have a special debate today. We are talking about a citizens' initiative. It doesn't happen often. For me, it's the first time as a minister that I'm allowed to be there. As Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, I think that is a good moment. I would like to try to reflect on the broader context of what we are talking about: the dog load. Because why is there this tax? This is because we are a decentralised unitary state. Then I'll be back with Thorbecke, who I often talk about when I'm standing here. We have multiple boards. They have regulatory powers and can therefore lay down rules themselves. As a result, different rules may apply in one municipality than in another. This is inherent in our state system. Those rules are always linked to local decision-making in the local, elected city council. There is a parliament that deals with this. That's where the authority lies. The same applies to taxes. The Constitution states that it is up to the legislator to determine which taxes can be levied in municipalities and that then municipalities themselves decide whether they are levied and, if so, how high they are. The People's Assembly is the highest body. He's gonna have to judge that. That local, independent political-administrative process is also going on here. This has led to a tax on dogs in 183 municipalities at the present time and not in the rest of the 352 municipalities. We have included in the Municipal Law several taxes that municipalities themselves can levy. That dog tax is a general tax, according to the law, the proceeds of which are free to spend for the municipalities. It is indeed a very old tax, as many speakers have said today. Almost for that reason alone, it is a nice tax. It dates back to the late Middle Ages, as Mr De Kort said. Then, of course, it had a different purpose. There were a lot of stray dogs back then. Then they had to fight rabies. It was even introduced because the dog cart was widely used as a means of transport. Those were all reasons to introduce a dog tax hundreds of years ago. Of course, that's all different now. In that respect, one could say that it was quite explainable at the time, but that it completely disappeared. But it is still there and is levied in about half of the municipalities, for about 49 million last year. And that is indeed also used by municipalities to build and maintain dog trails and such. But it's not one-on-one, those who said that are absolutely right. I do not know, I say to Mr Eerdmans, because he asked how many people pay the dog tax. We know which municipalities raise it. We know how much it pays, but we don't know exactly how many people that is. You'd have to take inventory of that by city council. If a dog tax is levied, the declaration is compulsory and can also be maintained. So local enforcers can check that out. I would also like to comment on a point that the initiator just mentioned. He said that the dog tax is a form of discrimination and should therefore also be abolished, because it introduces inequality. I understand his reasoning very well. He actually said two things. He said the money that comes in isn't necessarily spent on dog policy. But you also have the car tax and the real estate tax. These are taxes that affect specific groups of persons, which are levied on specific groups of persons; people with cars, people with their own homes. And the proceeds are for the benefit of the general resources. In the world of taxation that is a principle that is more common. For dog owners, they pay the tax or not, depending on the municipality where they live, but if you pay it, all dog owners in that municipality will pay the same. Similar cases are treated equally within a municipality. There are differences between municipalities, but that is also the case with the ozb. And then I come back to that local political choice, with a legal basis. That is possible; as for car owners it can also be done for dog owners. Then you may ask yourself, however, that is also today's discussion about whether the dog tax is at this time. Should you want to; could you reconsider and how would you do that? Mr De Kort actually concluded that it is no longer of this time. I would like to remind the Chamber that, in May 2020, about a year ago, we sent a report to the Chamber on the revision of the municipal tax area. It has been concluded that the dog load no longer fulfils the original function, as I said. The regulatory effect for the use of public space is actually limited. That report proposes that when revising the municipal tax area, consideration should be given to abolishing the dog tax. Policy options have also been outlined in that report. They were then intended as building blocks for a subsequent cabinet. There was no political weighting at the time, but it was laid down as building blocks; do with it as you please. A little further back in 2012 we received an opinion from the Council of State, namely that no changes in local taxes should be made in anticipation of the discussion on the revision of the municipal tax area. So he said, you really need to look at the whole thing, not light out one load. Because it's just a fact that, if you limit the possibilities for municipalities to levy dog tax but do not set anything else against it, the finances of the municipalities that do, become out of balance, because you get something out of it. Other municipalities have abolished it, long ago or recently, and that has been overcome, but for those municipalities that still have it it should be dealt with. So the cabinet actually advises that the choice to revise the municipal tax area, including the abolition of the dog tax, really be considered integral. And then it's obvious that this isn't due to this outgoing cabinet, but to the next cabinet. The public debate is relevant to this, and I think it is good that it is taking place here now. We can only be grateful to the initiator and anyone who has signed it. But given the advice there is, the information we have, it would be good in the cabinet to look at it in a broader context, if we look at the whole municipal tax area. Mr. Chairman. One more specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u66	It may be good if you finish your story first, and then I give Mr Wassenberg his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u67	Yes. I think I've already answered a lot of questions, but there were a few more specific ones. Mr Sneller asked how this initiative to abolish the dog tax would relate to Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act. Article 2 obliges the legislator to reflect all the financial consequences of the government's policy, and also to determine, if there are financial consequences, how they can be met. This means that, if you delete this tax option, it must be accompanied by opportunities for those municipalities to bear the consequences. That's what Article 2 says. Mr De Kort, if I have understood his question correctly, would he have to correct me if I thought he was asking: could we prevent municipalities which have abolished him from introducing him again? Well, I told you, the trend is down. And I'm not exactly sure, but I don't think it's very common to abolish and re-introduce. But you can't stop that unless we change the law. But as it is now stated in the Municipal Law, I cannot force municipalities to abolish the tax and then prevent it from being introduced again. Or you can take it all the way out, but you can't introduce an inequality by saying "if you abolish it, you can never enter it again" while the law remains the same. Then Mr Peters of the CDA asked whether any consideration had ever been given to making dog tax a target tax. Well, it isn't; he's absolutely right about that. It is true that this link is indeed made by several municipalities, but I am not aware that there has ever been an attempt to see if you could set it up as a national target tax. It's always been a general tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u68	We'll wait for the minister to finish, Mr. De Kort. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg and then to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u69	I actually only have one question I wanted to answer. That was also a question from Mr Peters, who, in his contribution, of course also extended the discussion to the whole municipal tax area. He said, "Is that all right?" Given the report that we also filed last year as a cabinet, and given the discussions that we have a lot on municipal finances and decentralisation, I actually think that there should be a better balance between the responsibilities that municipalities have on the one hand, and the opportunities they have to generate their own revenue on the other hand, regardless of how we deal with the Municipal Fund. So that broader context of reviewing financial relations, making it more consistent with the tasks and with the inter-administrative relationships we have, I think, would be good. In addition, I would think that it would also be good for local democracy if some more opportunities were created for municipalities to generate income themselves by increasing the municipal tax area. The inhabitants will then be involved in this issue: what do you really want your congregation to do for you, and what do you have left to do for you? Anyway, that's actually part of the whole building block of a better tax system. Together with the Secretary of State for Finance, we have done that research, which is in the Chamber, and I think that there is enough information in it to make a political assessment of it at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u70	The Minister said that the dog tax came from the Middle Ages and that we should therefore be positive about it for nostalgic reasons. The minister also mentioned the dog cart. I am glad that it has been abolished!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u71	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u72	Not everything from the Middle Ages we want to keep. The Minister also mentioned rabies. Rabies are no longer present here, but on a large scale in Hungary and Poland, for example. As a matter of fact, 80,000 puppies come here from these countries every year. Those puppies sometimes have rabies, because they're brought here like very young puppies. Sometimes they're only six weeks old, but puppies can't be vaccinated until they're 12 weeks old. So they're unvaccined because they're often too young. A breeder does not want to sell a puppy of fifteen weeks, but a puppy of six or seven weeks, even if that is not allowed by law. Does the Minister agree with me that, in order to combat rabies, for which the dog tax was originally intended, we should intervene much harder on the illegal puppy trade? 'Cause it's just not being controlled right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u73	I do not know if it is entirely within the scope of this debate, but all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u74	She was talking about rabies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u75	Yes. At least this gives me the opportunity to come back to my comment about nostalgia and the Middle Ages, because I don't think I want back to the Middle Ages in any way. There is little reason for that either, but as a historian I like a tax that has existed for so long in itself. But you could also set it to zero. As far as rabies is concerned, I must honestly say that it is indeed not entirely my competence. So I am afraid to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u76	It is indeed a little out of the order of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u77	No, Mr. Chairman, I disagree with you. It is not outside the scope of this debate, because the dog tax was originally intended to combat rabies. The dog tax doesn't help to fight rabies anymore. So if we are going back to the purpose of this law and we want to fight rabies, then we really need to tackle this illegal breeding. I understand that the Minister cannot answer that, but it really falls within this debate, because it is a question of why the dog tax was ever conceived at all. And this is why. On the one hand we allow the dog tax, which has nothing to do with rabies anymore, I realize that I am well aware of this and on the other hand we open the locks to collect rabies in a manner of speaking. Maybe that's a little excessive, but we really should do something about it. That's my actual plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u78	At least it's educational for me, too. I took back on the Middle Ages and what were the reasons for the tax at the time: the stray dogs, the dog carts and rabies. I have now learned that rabies is still a problem, not in the Netherlands, by the way. I knew that, too. But I agree with Mr Wassenberg that this tax does not help in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u79	The Minister had understood my question about municipalities which have already abolished this levy. I can also follow her answer, but I still want to ask her about it. Is there any possibility that it will be abolished and that the municipalities which still charge it may, exceptionally, do so for a number of years longer, with some sort of ultimatum, so that they do not get into immediate trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u80	That is perhaps also the answer to Mr De Kort's question and others to start the discussion with the VNG. As I said, I would prefer to do so in the context of talking at all about the municipal tax area, but I would also like to speak with the VNG about their position on the dog tax. Suppose, in that broader context, you would also go to abolishing the dog tax, you should of course also look at a form of phasing out that load and phasing in something else. In that sense it is not possible now, but we should agree with each other if it could come to that. Perhaps that would be a solution for certain municipalities. Now I am making great strides ahead of what should precede it. If I understand Mr De Kort correctly, that should be part of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u81	Big steps, we like that when it comes to abolishing the dog tax. In municipalities such as Amsterdam, which you know through and through.... and Rotterdam, so do Mr Eerdmans and the PvdA, where the budget could indeed be a problem, they have abolished it. Do you not think it is very unfair that dog owners should be caught disproportionately hard when the general means, i.e. the lantern poles, the playgrounds and so on, are paid out of their pockets while they are alone in them? Look, at a house, at the ozb, it's like when you have a big house, you pay a lot of ozb. If you have a small house, you pay less. This concerns the working pool. Do you agree with me that we should protect those who do not receive special assistance and have a doggy, and who are caught hard in the municipality, and therefore should not talk about getting the budget in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u82	I would like to add a little to Mrs Kathmann's remarks: this should also be part of the local debate. It often is. This has often been a reason in the municipalities in which there has been a decision to abolish. So that can have an effect. People are going to vote for the city council, the city council is going to look closely at what the programs said and then eventually there will be a coalition that decides to abolish it. That has happened a number of times. That happened in Amsterdam when I was in college. This has recently happened in Rotterdam. There are many cities in which that has happened. But there are also cities that have not been chosen. I notice that it is going a bit in all directions in a party political sense. So I think it's a good thing that it's a local focus. I have just argued, again, that I am not here as an opponent or opponent of the dog tax, that I consider that local consideration is important. But it's the city's choice. That is why, in the end, it is not a question of dishonesty. Everyone in that congregation is treated the same. So if you're a dog owner living in a community that abolished it, that's good for you. Maybe that was exactly what you wanted. Maybe that was the reason for your voice. And in a community where it still exists, every dog owner has to pay the same dog tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u83	I think it's a little too easy to hide behind local democracy. You see great differences. It is not for nothing that 200 municipalities have already abolished it. There is absolutely no question of equal treatment here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u84	And your question to the Minister is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u85	My question to the Minister is why she insists on closing the budget, while dog owners are taken equally hard in relation to the other taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u86	That is exactly the point: I do not choose to do so. It's been in municipal law for a long time. Municipalities can decide to use it or not. That's their choice, as we've arranged with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u87	Last question. As Mr Eerdmans just said, the municipalities can also make the choice to get their budgets in order by cutting their costs. It could be. In this respect, there is a lot going on, because otherwise they would not have abolished the dog tax in more than 200 municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u88	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u89	I can't speak for every single congregation. Municipalities make choices. For some municipalities, because they have a large budget, where the dog tax is a relatively small part of it, it is a bit easier to strike a line there than for other municipalities. But the way it is now, municipalities simply have to make that decision on their own. That discussion is also taking place. Groningen was quoted here. There, I believe, is indeed the highest dog tax in the Netherlands. That is where the debate is taking place, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u90	Thank you. Then I'd like to thank the Minister for her first term. We're going back to the Chamber for the second term. Let's see if there's a need. Not with Mr. Sneller. Mr Smolders has already announced a motion, so I will give him the floor for his second term. In the meantime, I'm gonna finish the list. Mr Wassenberg also needs a second term, I see. Mr Bosma does not, Mr Eerdmans does not, Mrs Kathmann does not, Mr Peters does not. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Peters does. Mrs. Leijten, too. Fine. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Smolders of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that I know Mr De Kort quite well. In Brabant, we all know each other a little bit. He's been trying hard for the past week. I know the VVD mordicus was against abolishing the dog tax, so he did his best this week. There is one more group meeting before we vote next week, so perhaps he can persuade his group to support my motion. Mr. Chairman. I shall proceed to read out my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this citizens' initiative has been signed by more than 60,000 citizens;]] [[noting that more and more municipalities are abolishing the dog tax;]] [[Whereas the vast majority of dog owners clean up their dog shit;]] [[Whereas it is better for citizens to be rewarded for good behaviour;]] [[whereas many municipalities use the dog tax improperly by letting a large part of that tax land in general resources;]] [[Whereas the possession of pets and especially in this case a dog should not be underestimated for the elderly, lonely people, etc.;]] [[calls on the Government to bring forward an amendment to the law which removes from the law the legal basis for the dog tax, Article 226 of the Municipal Law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smolders, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Martin Bosma and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35569-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u93	I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party and then to Mr De Kort of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, that dog tax is not only unreasonable, random and old-fashioned in my first term I hadn't said she was old-fashioned but also doesn't help against rabies. So we have to get rid of the dog tax. I wanted to table a motion on this, but that motion is similar to that tabled by Mr Smolders, so I decided to co-sign Mr Smolders's and not to make a motion myself. Maybe we can put our motions together a little bit, but we'll do that well before Tuesday. In my last minute I would like to return to the basics, namely the purpose of the dog tax, which I had just had an interrupting debate with the Minister. The aim of the dog tax was originally to combat rabies. Like I said, that dog tax doesn't help. It is very strange that we have this dog tax to combat rabies; it does not help; everyone knows that, but at the same time we allow 80,000 puppies a year to come here from Eastern Europe, including from areas where rabies still prevails. Those are puppies who are often unvaccinated, because they are too young for that. I understand from the Minister that she cannot answer that herself, but I do think that the government, on behalf of whoever she is speaking, should take this a little more seriously. Then we are talking about illegal imports from Eastern Europe. But in 2018, the Chamber also adopted a motion from me to prevent impulse purchases, for example via the Internet. That motion has been widely adopted. At that time, the Minister for Agriculture said that she was going to think about how to carry her out. That was two and a half years ago and it still hasn't happened. So I ask the Minister whether she, and perhaps she should call on her colleague from Agriculture, can make haste to combat the potentially dangerous imports of animals from Eastern Europe, which are then sold on the Internet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u95	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Kort of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Smolders already mentioned it: in Brabant we know each other well. I think that Mr Peters of the CDA can also confirm this. I just cannot go along with Mr Smolders' motion. I'm sure I can help him out of that dream. If we were to abolish that dog tax immediately, municipalities would be in trouble. I think it's important. I also welcome the Minister's commitment to discuss it with the VNG. Then we can say goodbye to this in the long run. I want to make it a little more concrete. I shall also table a motion for that. That's my first motion I'm going to table. He's not here in Braille. Most of you know I'm very visually impaired. So I can't read the motion myself. I made an appointment with the chairman on that. In fact, the Rules of Procedure state that as a Member, you must read a motion yourself. I would ask the chairman to read my motion on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u97	Thank you, Mr. De Kort. It is indeed an exception, but I would like to read out Mr De Kort's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u98	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court has been presented with the citizens' initiative "Stop the dog tax';]] [[whereas the municipal law allows municipalities to levy a dog tax, but does not require it;]] [[Whereas the number of municipalities levying this tax has decreased over the years;]] [[Whereas the dog tax often flows to the general resources of municipalities;]] [[Whereas the reasons for the dog tax may be questioned;]] [[Whereas the proceeds of the dog tax for municipalities are part of their total finances, thereby reducing their income;]] [[calls on the Government to assess the financial impact on municipalities of abolishing the dog tax;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the UNG, to examine the possibility of abolishing the dog tax, including the possibility of a reasonable transitional period;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of this for the examination of the budget of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations in autumn 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Kort.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35569-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u100	Thank you. There is an interruption and I am glad that you are answering it yourself. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP and then to Mr Sneller van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u101	Mr President, it is very good that such a solution has been found for Mr De Kort's being able to table motions. I assume that it is simply the agreement that all the Presidents will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u102	Sure. That's what we're assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u103	I'm glad that's how it works. I have a question for Mr De Kort. The VVD has, however, aroused the expectation that the dog tax will disappear. What does this do with confidence in politics? This is not a motion that the dog tax is going to disappear. The Minister says, "I'm not in favour of it." Then an investigation comes out, a little chat, and then the cabinet says, "Well, we're not for it." Then it's not gonna happen. What does Mr De Kort think about the fact that he has given the impression that the VVD is in the list of parties that wanted to abolish the dog tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u104	I have indicated that we find this dog tax very special and weird. I have also indicated everywhere that we want to abolish it in the long term. We think it is a good idea for the cabinet to discuss this with the VNG, but I insist that we think it is a special tax. The Minister also refers to the report on local charges, in which this is noted. So we have to do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u105	You're either in favour or you're against it. Mr De Kort just asked me: can there be a way in between? Then I said that I would prefer that we simply decide to stop and that "in the long run" is a middle ground for me. But what Mr De Kort is proposing now is not even a middle ground. He doesn't even say, "You get five or ten years." No, he says do an investigation. There is no obligation to do so. Nothing! Yeah, I hear considerations why he doesn't want to. I do not think it is right for you to say to the outside world 'we are in favour of abolishing the dog tax' and then do not give at home in the debate. You even talked on television about the wooftaks or... What was it again? The dachshunds! That's not pure, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u106	I do not think that is the case with Mrs Leijten. I have indicated how we look at it and that we think this is a special tax. But we also think it is important that we do justice to the position of those municipalities that still hold it up. As a representative of the people, I am looking at this and that is why I would like to instruct the cabinet to discuss it. I deliberately ask the cabinet to do so for the budget, so that we can make it concrete with a clear timetable. I hope that we can finally abolish it, because it is a strange tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u107	I would just like to know exactly what this motion is about and what its content is. Therefore, the applicant's intention is not that the dog tax should be abolished in the long term or that the Minister should, in the long term, do something that will eventually abolish the dog tax. It's pure research.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u108	No, I would like to point out in the motion that the debate must take place and that the Chamber must be informed of this before the budget debate in the autumn. I hope that we will then be able to make the decision to say our final goodbye to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u109	Okay, so this is a non-binding step to map it. We'll have the real debate later. Perhaps there will be a proposal from the VVD to abolish it, but at least we will have a discussion before the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u110	Finally, Mr De Kort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u111	We have discussed a citizens' initiative here and I therefore believe that this is for the best. But we do have even more information and then we have taken all the steps that are real and reasonable, so that we can make a final decision. I've always held on to that battle for the arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u112	Okay, that's clear. This debate is for the vote, but the VVD's proposal is not!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. De Kort. I shall then give the floor to Mr Peters for his second term. Then it's Mrs Leijten's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks again to the authors and also thank you for the historical explanations. In fact, I hear our minister is a historian. Yesterday it appeared that I had been appointed as a non-financial spokesman as a volunteer for the debate on this law. Then I thought, "I wonder where that's gonna end." This morning, I read in the newspaper: 'Majority for the abolition of dog tax'. After that I got a lot of worried aldermen Finance on the line with the question: "How are you gonna solve that? What's going on here?'. I didn't know that, but at the same time I got a number of happy dog owners on the phone saying: hey, we're finally stopping the dog tax. I don't know what I'm going back to Oss with right now. Mr Smolders has tabled a motion which, in fact, says: we are going to abolish the dog tax. When I count like that, I don't think there's a majority for that. Then I hear the VVD say in its motion: nothing is happening for the time being. So I think we will have to tell the dog owners what I said myself earlier: I'm afraid we're about to give the dog a coat. In other words, making someone happy with something that isn't there at all. We're giving false hope, because I don't think we've decided here to abolish the dog tax. So that is what happened and I can reassure the Aldermen of Finance, at least for the time being. I hope that the Minister will follow my call and actually D66's and talk to the municipalities to see how we should deal with this. I regret that this is the outcome of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u115	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u116	Mr. Chairman. This debate is a strange aftertaste, with the motion that is now before us from the VVD, because it calls for an investigation and we are investigating ourselves silly! This is about making choices and we are about it. We're gonna go over it when you think you're talking about it, and we're gonna make laws here, so we can also take things out of laws here. The position of the CDA "we're not about that'...... is not correct. It's uncovered? No, the Chamber has a budget right, so the Chamber can make proposals and the government can then say: that's how we cover it. If we did not agree, we could also say: we are looking for alternative cover. But the whole salmon standard, which the Chamber itself must find space and therefore never find it, limits our resources enormously. So that too is a non-argument. Apart from the fact that, of course, we have seen that in this particular time of corona, it is not at all crazy to find money with the general funds. All those budgets that have been proposed for whatever corona arrangements always had "covering general resources, you will hear from us how we justify it." The fact that receipts have been lost has been the subject of a major debate yesterday, and that the amounts involved are not the same. These are all non-valid arguments in a debate that is actually very simple: a debate that comes from society. It should encourage the submission of citizens' initiatives, but then you can see here how that debate immediately becomes the playball of actually false arguments. So that's not listening to the people. I am very sorry about that. I am very sorry about that, Mr President, but I will promise the author that, for the perspective of the relationship between municipal tasks, it has been put on our minds that we can do something with this. Locally we've done a lot with it as SP, but we'll definitely hold on to this. At least we are going to talk about it again in the budget, because then there is the research of the VVD. So it is not off the agenda, I say to the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u117	Let me make a point of order. I respect the opinion of the SP. Very clear and fine, only Mrs Leijten says: the CDA is of the opinion "we are not about that." No, the CDA has said: of course we can change the law here. But the CDA, like myself, always says: I am not going to be overnight, by motion, whether it is Mr Smolders' or Mrs Leijten's or anyone else's, without having been in consultation with the municipalities or without having asked the minister to do so, a gap in municipal budgets. And then we'll wait and see if we're ever gonna solve that through the resources of the Empire or otherwise. Of course we can talk about that. I thought: a small correction to what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u118	If I've misheard you, Mr. Peters, I'm sorry, too. I thought I heard both in your first term and in your second, that we are having a debate here on something that we were not talking about. If I misunderstood that, it's a good thing you corrected it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I give the floor to the Minister. Two motions have been tabled and a single question has been put, among others by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u120	That's right. That's how I understood it, Mr. President. Mr Wassenberg refers back to a motion which the Chamber has previously adopted and which looks at impulse buying and illegal imports of dogs or pets from Eastern Europe. There's one cabinet, but several wallet holders. I am, of course, prepared to take this and leave it with my colleague from LNV, because I cannot answer it now. I don't have that knowledge. I often thought in the corona time myself: I only had one dog, because then I could walk after ten. But I didn't. I think people made impulse purchases back then, which is why I had to think about it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the motions for resolutions and the motions for resolutions also bring me to the comments made by other speakers. The motion in part No. 2 by Mr Smolders, co-signed by three other members of the Chamber. I would almost quote Mr Peters: we should not hold the dog's coat. That's what I learned today, a new expression for me. That is why I must advise against the motion, because it is indeed a motion that is not covered in this way. Since I have also argued in my first term that I would prefer to look at it more broadly, within the framework of municipal taxes, at least municipal finances, excuses, I cannot therefore now recommend a motion which would like to take a bite out of the municipal finances. Then there is the second motion, Mr De Kort's motion. I have just said that I would also like to say to him that not only does the cabinet think that we should also talk about this particular tax in the broad context of municipal taxes and municipal finances. The VNG feels the same way. The VNG has already said: we want to talk about dog tax and also about abolishing it, but then we have to look at how we deal with municipal finances at all. If you take this particular look, we should also talk about whether something else should come back and whether we are doing so through more opportunities for municipalities to levy taxes at all. How do we solve that? I have already said in the first term that I would like to continue the discussion with the VNG. I would like to remind the House once again that the report it received in May 2020 also provides options for this. Nevertheless, I can say something about the motion. You're actually asking for mapping, financial consequences, talking and reporting to the Chamber. I'm willing to do that, so I'll give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u121	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-10-tweedekamer-18.u122	I would like to thank the initiator once again for putting this issue on the agenda for the European Parliament. We will vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday 15 June. I will therefore inform you of the outcome. Thank you also to the Minister and to the Members for their contributions and to the viewers at home.
