ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 25 and 26 March. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. Of course, I would also like to welcome the spokesmen. Some of you are last here today as spokesperson. I have said several times to some of you: this is your last debate. But I'm afraid this is your last debate, Mr. Van Ojik. The same applies to Mr Voordewind and Mr Bosman. I call Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks. You can say something. This time I am a little more accommodating and it does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	You recalled: we have said to each other several times 'this is really the last debate', but I believe that this is really the last debate. Mr. Chairman. Over the past four years, we have debated as a Chamber more than twenty times with the Prime Minister in preparation for a European summit. That is a nice tradition, which I think they could take as an example in many other Member States. It is not natural for us to do so. In substance, it was sometimes a competition in euroscepticism. Whether it was about the recovery plan, the size of the Multiannual Financial Framework, solidarity with refugees stranded at the external border, or the start of accession negotiations with countries in the Western Balkans, the Netherlands was often the preferred brake. The question is, how does that go on? The influence of the Netherlands in the European Union has increased further, as has the importance of the European Union for the Netherlands. As the major problems are increasingly cross-border, so is the case. The influence of the Netherlands is increased by our economic strength, by the departure of the British, of course, and, honestly, also by the experience and craftsmanship of our Prime Minister. But craftsmanship is not yet leadership. The Prime Minister's party was rewarded by the electorate for his craftsmanship, but also Mr Paternotte's party, which calls for new leadership, came out as a winner. It is precisely in Europe that leadership will be very much needed, I think. I don't mean standing on the brakes all the time. I am not referring to the ambivalence which the Netherlands has actively practiced, which means that we are in favour of cooperation as long as we make money from it, but that we choose for the national interest if we are asked to do something. Think of taking over refugees, dismantling the Netherlands as a tax haven and creating a real European social policy that bridges differences rather than widens them. I see the risk that in the coming years it will be even more than in recent years about whether you are for or against Europe, whether you are for more or less European Union. That seems to me to be a pointless debate. I think it's about other questions. How do we put an end to global warming and biodiversity loss? How do we protect the international legal order and stop undermining democracy? How do we control migration? How do we combat inequality between and within countries? These are major, almost abstract issues which will arise over the next few years in the form of specific questions to the Heads of Government. Then it comes next to craftsmanship, to leadership. Indeed, in election debates with Mr Wilders, you can proudly declare that you have managed to reduce the number of refugees from Syria by 90%. Nobody will deny that something had to happen in 2015 but you cannot close your eyes to where the EU-Turkey Declaration has now taken us, I say to the Prime Minister through the President. Think of the overcrowded Greek islands, the pushbacks under the eyes of Frontex and Erdogan's ambush force. What's next? I'm asking the Prime Minister. Are the original agreements contained in the EU-Turkey Declaration renewed or amended? Are we going back to resettlement? What can we do for those tens of thousands of Turkish citizens, including fellow MEPs, who have been detained for political reasons since the coup in 2016? I read in the report on the written consultation that we do not even know how many people we are talking about. How will the Union respond to Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention, thereby releasing violence against women in Turkey? I'd like a response. Madam President. Leadership has also been requested in the relationship with Russia. This brings me, now that we can do it one more time, as many times before in these debates on the construction of Nord Stream 2. That billion-dollar project is controversial for many reasons. In these debates, the Prime Minister has always stressed that this is a private project that we should not interfere with. How is that consistent with the reconstruction that was published yesterday at Follow the Money, which shows that even in recent years, up to the highest official level, Russia has been consulted to make Nord Stream possible? Can the Prime Minister explain how current contacts with the Kremlin on this gas pipeline are going? What will be the Dutch commitment at the forthcoming summit, where the EU-Russia declaration is prominently on the agenda? How are we going to prevent Kremlin from using Nord Stream to punish Ukraine, for example, by shutting the country off gas if that is the case? I would also like to comment on this point. Mr. Chairman. In many other areas, leadership is required. You can oppose the start of accession negotiations with Albania and northern Macedonia, but you run the risk that Russia and China will be ready to fill the political vacuum. You can keep saying that Southern European countries have to clean their own streets before you want to help them, but then you will have to recognise how our tax haven and our balance of payments surpluses are disrupting the economy elsewhere. The major challenges facing the Netherlands can only be solved through international cooperation. That is why we are working together in the European Union, first and foremost with France and Germany, but also with other large Member States such as Spain and Italy, which we have unnecessarily alienated from us in the last few years because of our noisy economy. To this end, we are renewing the transatlantic link, which the previous President, unlike the Prime Minister, often wanted us to believe, has been seriously tested. In doing so, we are looking for new partners, closer to the African continent and further away, without whom the major issues of our time are insoluble. Craftsmanship is useful in all of this. Leadership is essential. I wish that the new cabinet, whatever that may look like, and also the new House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on the election results. At the same time, there is little room for rest or celebration, because it is precisely in this crisis that there is a great responsibility, perhaps even greater than usual, and certainly beyond borders. The Labour Party expects an active and European foreign policy in the coming period, not with the heels in the sand, but constructively. For a look at the world makes the role for Europe crystal clear, namely as a precursor to tackling climate change, defending freedoms and the best guarantee to emerge stronger together from the crisis. About this crisis, in this case the corona crisis, I want to be the first to talk about it. Because that common approach also seems to be under pressure. Let me just mention the example of AstraZeneca. Norway was the first to ring the bell and said that there had to be a stop. This caused a domino effect, with the result that we are weeks behind the chosen vaccination strategy. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: how do we ensure coordination and how do we prevent this from happening more often? The risks are simply too great. A second problem is that there is a lack of vaccine experts. All these controls are necessary, but they also create an incredible amount of pressure and capacity building at the EEA. European cooperation is also needed to keep that number of experts in order and to regulate the coordination. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he have an eye for that? Is there any contact? How is this also discussed at European level? With the health card, people and all those heavily affected SMEs in the tourist industry can be given the opportunity to travel safely again, but for the Labour Party an important condition is that this health card is easy to use and free of charge and is as accessible and public as possible. It is therefore a good thing that people who have already had corona or are able to pass a negative test are also eligible under the current plans. However, according to the Commission's plan, Member States remain responsible for decisions on travel restrictions. My question is, therefore, how do we ensure that European cooperation is in order this time and that the EU health card does not become a new coronadashboard pass? And can the Prime Minister guarantee that Dutch people's data will be handled carefully? Finally, the threat of conflict between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Is the cabinet ready to carry out a restriction on exports or not? And is that in our best interest? Because we have also had a conversation with Johnson before, where it was said: pay attention, protecting yourself sounds attractive, but at the same time we are dependent on others; let's deal with it carefully. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the economic recovery. The European leaders are again talking about a digitaks for tech giants like Facebook and Google. The position of the Labour Party was and is clear: we want these multinationals to pay fair taxes as soon as possible and thus contribute to our recovery. Is the Prime Minister finally going to work for a European digitaks, as France and Spain, for example? Or is it again the "chopping in the sand" policy? We hope that this will finally get off the ground, because this is really necessary and because this crisis shows that you must show solidarity with each other. Then we can also ask the strongest shoulders for the toughest of burdens. Mr. Chairman. There is 5.6 billion in European investment on the shelf. This cabinet will only undertake an official reconnaissance of the use of this money. The employers and workers are right to point out that the crisis is still putting thousands of jobs at risk. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore what he is waiting for. Will he undertake to discuss a national recovery plan with the Commission as soon as possible? Finally, the European Union's foreign policy. Firstly, I would like to express my solidarity with Mr Sjoerdsma and others, who, together with MEPs, have been placed on a Chinese sanction list. Earlier we heard reports of espionage and Chinese interference at universities. Perhaps we have shown ourselves too deaf and too naive about China for too long. This shows the need for unanimity in European foreign policy: together, strong in a world that is becoming increasingly uncertain. For the Labour Party, the abolition of a veto on foreign policy is therefore a priority for the coming years. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to be constructive about this and to fight this for each other, because this will continue to come back in our relationship with China, Russia and Turkey. Thus Erdogan came up with a sort of diversion with the aim of improving relations with the European Union, namely a genuine human rights action plan. As expected, and as we know, that's a wash nose. In a week, Turkey took steps to ban the country's third largest party, the Kurdish HDP, and decided to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention, which should combat violence against women. And we know that six women have been murdered in that country in the last 20 hours, an impressive number to consider. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore what consequences he considers to be drawn from this Turkish decision to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Labour Party that precisely the human rights situation should be the measure of how we enter into, shape and continue our relationship with Turkey? How can it be that in all these years, over the last two years, the conclusions of the European Council have not mentioned human rights? Can the Prime Minister explain that to me? And does he want to make a big deal out of that this time? Action against violence against women must always be a priority wherever it is in the world. We must never close our eyes to that, as we seem to do. That is my final question. Human rights are not just about women; they are also about migrants. There is a dependency relationship, but if we know that Turkey can't even disprove or deny that there are dumpings of refugees in the sea, and while we are looking the other way, we, the Netherlands, are not worth it at European level. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD. This is also the last debate for Mr Bosman. I hear saying, in this room. Exactly, that's true. I also hear a statement about a Secretary of State's office. Yeah, it could be. You didn't hear, did you? Yes, his name is mentioned, I hear. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. The downside of being called is that you're not gonna be. Mr. Chairman. A debate on the European Summit, the European Union. Mr Van Ojik said it: important moments that we take seriously in the Netherlands. Well, there's a bit to it, too. It's also a special moment. I have sometimes said that this is a kind of interbullum: the old Chamber is saying goodbye and the new Chamber is ready. But I'm also saying, you're MPs until you're not. So I'm a full-fledged MP, no matter who's out there raving. That's why I'm here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	It is also good to look back at the reason why this Union is there. How did we start again? I refer to the European Coal and Steel Community, an economic link which also had security in mind. A cooperation of countries to prevent us from getting war on the continent, where we thought: if we increase European cooperation, we will avoid conflicts. This is still an important part of the European Union, in addition to being a community of values. Common values where we look at how we deal with each other. How do we ensure that the Netherlands gets a place in the European Union where we feel at home? But, Mr President, it is still a Union of independent countries. It's not a federation. That is why it is important that we, as national parliaments, keep our finger on the future, on how we deal with the European Union. I also think this is important because the Netherlands is one of the founders of this European cooperation. I believe that we are fulfilling that role and we must continue to play that role. Is everything great in that European Union? No, a lot is going well; let's put that first. It's always easy to criticize, but a lot is going well. What we emphasise is often limited, but often essential and eye-catching. Mr Kuik mentioned the vaccination debate. It is, of course, essential. If there is an area in which we must stand up together for the people of the European Union, it is in terms of health. I just read that the President of the United States is even going to join in to take part in that discussion. Well, then the importance is essential. So I very much hope that we will get out of that together, because we have nothing to do with excluding people and thereby jeopardising the health of the people of the European Union. Mr. Chairman. There will be a conference on the future of Europe. That's also important. We are quite critical of that as a VVD, because we also look at the composition. What's the intent of that conference? The most important thing is that we talk about Europe again. What should Europe look like? What does the composition look like? What can we do better and what else can we do? I do have my concerns. If you look at that conference it is: we at WC-Eend advise WC-Eend. It is essential, however, to have a broad look. That is what is being done, because people are being asked about. There is room for that, but there must also be room for a critical sound in order to clarify dissenting opinions in order not to shine without friction, it was sometimes said to make the Union better and stronger and in this way to achieve an even better Union than we already have. Nor should there be any guidance on the outcome of that conference. I have read in the answers that at least there is no intention of achieving a definite Treaty change. I think that's very wise. Let's at least start the discussion first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mrs Leijten and then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	Nowhere so much weird and spiders as in this house, but that also applies to the debate on Europe. If you are skeptical, you would yell along the sidelines, which could also be the realistic story about the future of Europe. The fact that it is not enough and that it has been too little about it in the last election campaign is a shame, because a lot of what we are discussing and trying to establish here is coming from the ivory towers where the future of Europe is now being discussed. I have noticed in the European media that some countries have made some sort of amendment to the proposal on the debate on the future of Europe. One calls it economical, the other calls it critical, another calls it... But we do not know that amendment. I ask the VVD if it would support the SP in its appeal to our Prime Minister to simply make that public, so that we know what the Netherlands has signed, because I understand that it is underneath. Then we can talk about it and then we can get that discussion out of the ivory towers at the start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	To make it perfectly clear, this is about the story that we are not going to come up with a treaty amendment? Is that the amendment you're referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	Do you know? Do I know? I looked for it, but I didn't find it. I tried to get it, but I didn't get it, because it's classified again! It's being kept behind closed doors again. The Netherlands has signed it. Our government may be decommissioned, but she signed it. I simply ask the VVD, so that we can ask the Prime Minister together, we can just get that for the answer and we know what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	It was just a question of clarification. I understand Mrs Leijten's emotion. I would like to come back to the discussion we had in the Chamber. In the general discussions and the other debates we have had on this committee, I do recognize what is now being done by those countries in the concern that is being expressed. I recognise this and see it as a translation made by the Dutch cabinet at least. I don't think it's a problem at all to ask if that's possible in public. And if so, I'd love to. I also think it would be wise to make this kind of thing public. Let me put it this way: I am not surprised by this cabinet's commitment to this conference to prevent us from having a treaty change here. This concerns discussions that we have all had in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	Well, I don't think there have been any motions that say that there can never be a treaty change. In any case, I think it is important that, if there is one, the people have a voice in it. I have always argued in favour of it, and Mr Bosman calls it emotional; all this, also strangely, should not be discussed here in the air. We need to discuss, not a concept conclusion that we should not talk about, but certainly not amendments to a plan that we, as a parliament, have interfered with in detail? We may very well agree on that amendment, but I would like to see it. I'd like to discuss it with the Prime Minister. I would like to be able to discuss with him the feasibility of this and how we are going to test it, because I am afraid of the discussion about the future of Europe in these ivory towers, because it is driving it even further away from the real problems in people's real lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	Where I said "emotionally," I meant "passionately." Stop time, that's better. Agreed. This discussion must be public and more transparent: where are we going, what are the choices we are making? Don't be afraid of society. In fact, we're gonna ask the people. In doing so, state what the choices are. I don't have a problem with that. In fact, I think it is to the advantage of the European Union to exercise this transparency. Discussion of the results that will take place in the corridors of the Union seems to me to be unwise. Make that transparent. If you want to create support, you do it by involving people in the story, so they don't get surprised. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	Then about the content. I believe that Mrs Leijten is absolutely right when she says that there has never been a motion that says that there should be no treaty change. I would think that at a conference on the future of Europe you are going to talk about the future of Europe. Then you are not going to say at the front: that should not result in us changing the treaty to become more effective, more transparent, more democratic or anything else. The VVD also calls in its own programme for a treaty change and for the revision of international treaties from time to time, but now it says: we do not want that in Europe. What I really do not understand from Mr Bosman's words is how he rhymes it with one another.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	There are two different moments. You have a conference on the future of Europe. So let us look at what this future of Europe should be, without losing ourselves in a treaty change, because that is what we are going to focus on. Then we will discuss what Europe should look like. As far as I am concerned, you can say: perhaps without a European Parliament. That could just be an option. You can also say'more control over national parliaments', because that could also be an option, without saying 'yes, but then you have to change the treaty' or 'you can't, because then you have to change the treaty'. No, let's start the discussion about what options there are and what the future looks like. A treaty change will always take place in the national parliaments. That's where it starts, not at the conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	How you change the treaty is bound to be in that same treaty. There's no other way. You have a conference like this to talk about the future. You say that perhaps we should abolish the European Parliament. Then you have to change the treaty. Then a conference will lead to a treaty change. In your own program, it is. Look, those "dirty boxes," that "dirty dozen" that has now come out... they have said that this conference should not lead to a treaty change. But can I hear you now? Are you saying that this conversation should take place there and that this could eventually lead to a treaty change?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u19	What I want to avoid is that we are about to have that conference and the final conclusion of that conference is that we need a treaty change. 'Cause I got a problem with that. I don't think that's wise. I'm pretty critical about that conference. Who's at the conference? Who's hooking up? Who are we reaching? Is it representative? Is the debate such that we actually have a weighted decision at that conference on the future of Europe? That's another thing you need to discuss. I do not want to be confronted with a statement from a conference on which I have to say afterwards: was that Europe's weighted average on the future of Europe? Because we still have to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u20	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u21	I do notice a little bit of nothing, which I'm worried about. There have been some debates on Europe in this campaign. There I also heard the VVD argue that together we need to be stronger in the world, for example against superpowers like China, and that, for example, we need to ensure that sanctions can be imposed by a majority of countries. You're gonna need a treaty change for that. Now we are in the week after the elections and I hear Mr Bosman say: I do not want an idea to change a treaty in a year's time when that conference is ready. We are talking about a conference which may last a year and which you are already saying in the front: it must not lead to a treaty change. I'd say don't lock that door.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u22	No, but I think I was very clear. Don't come as a conference with a story about: these are the points you need to change; point. Come up with a vision, I say to Mr Paternotte. What should Europe's vision be? What would it look like after the conference? What are you getting at? What are the opportunities and opportunities? What are the risks and the trade-offs that you still have to make?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. With regard to this role of the European Union, we are concerned about the sometimes shifting or extending of responsibilities in the field of health care. There's gonna be a health union. It is, of course, essential to work together, including in the field of health, because a great deal is currently also cross-border. That pandemic doesn't stop at the Dutch border. We also need to take the supplies of medical materials and equipment more widely. Think of the information we get about what is happening, for example that in Norway they are said to have a problem with AstraZeneca. How soon will this information come? How do we ensure that it gets to the right places in the right way, without panic? That's essential. But health care remains a national competence. That is also what I read in Mr Blok's replies in writing. That's a good thing. But I would like to stress that we must pay attention to this and look at it. The third point I would like to raise is the digitisation of the European Union. I took a look at the digital compass. There's still a few things in there. It also refers to the standardisation of systems, the introduction of artificial intelligence and the one-off introduction of information and data, the "only once" system. My concern, and the concern of the VVD, is that through standardisation of the digital infrastructure, via the back office, control in the Netherlands will disappear and that we will be directed towards our decision-making on the digitisation of the European Union. 'Cause that's important. It is about a single digital gateway, whereby implementing organisations are required to be able to be linked to the systems of the European Union. If you're talking about artificial intelligence and the merging of systems, is there room for human measure? Is there still a question of customization? Who's responsible for that information? Who supervises how that information is collected? What happens if there's a mistake in that system? We know this: that there is a mistake in systems that are collected centrally, but that you cannot access it. You don't know it's wrong. You can't change it. How do we do that in the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u25	What a good question from the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u26	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u27	No, seriously. We've had quite a few choices with the supplemental scandal. Mr Bosman himself has been chairman of the Temporary Committee on Implementation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u28	Implementing organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u29	Implementing organisations. Apologies. I'm worried about this, too. After the fall of the cabinet, we adopted a motion from the SP, co-signed by the VVD. That said, clean up all that blacklist crap, like those algorithms that were so wrong that they eventually led to hardcore discrimination, which affects people to this day. That's gonna be a giga operation. On the other hand, you can see the European debate where it is still hallelujah when it comes to data linking, data sharing, entering once. There is a sacred faith that will lead to everyone's freedom, while we have seen how it gags people. Then how do we proceed with this? I'd like to ask the VVD. These questions are so justified, but of course there is a call for legislation in the draft conclusions. I fear with great fear that it will be there within a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u30	We totally agree, because what I have noticed is that when you talk about Europe, it is often 'too early, too early, too early, oh, too late'. So it can never be too soon. We need to start this discussion. This is a discussion we need to discuss. We must learn from mistakes we have made in countries. I cannot imagine that the Netherlands is the only country in which we have made this kind of mistake in the context of digitisation. It has been very much discussed with us in this supplementing affair. Then let it not be a one-sided story where we say: okay, that's parked. No. The European Union is now on the verge of applying the same digitisation, in which we said afterwards: was it wise? I still believe that we can have a lot of benefits from digitisation and standardisation, absolutely. I see it for companies, for cross-border care, for passenger traffic. I see all these possibilities and more. But I'm looking for the security deposit. I think that's a leading question. We will all have to ask the question: cabinet, guarantee that digitisation, identity of persons and guarantee that the aggregation of data remains manageable and verifiable up to the individual level. If I call the European Union and say that I would like to have the details of who is looking at my data, I simply want to be able to get a list of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u31	"Safeguards." It all sounds so beautiful. We're dealing with draft conclusions that you're never allowed to quote. However, it does mention a call for speedy legislation. I think we should give the Prime Minister the message to temporize it. Because the benefits of digitalization are there, but there are also disadvantages. We have hit our noses hard, just like more than 30,000 families in our country. I would be bitter if we were to say here that we are talking so little about the future of Europe, when Europe is going to build it as a highway and we are not going to be able to do anything about it and stand empty-handed as a parliament. So we should actually give the Prime Minister the following message. This speedy legislation shouldn't be so fast. Maybe it is not nice for the Prime Minister to have to talk about the surcharge scandal with the other Heads of Government, but he should bring it up anyway. He has to say: boys, there are great risks and a cabinet of mine has fallen on this, so we should not quickly lay down this in legislation. For I predict: then it will be good for the companies and for the tech, but then privacy and human size are at the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u32	I think it is essential that we discuss the guarantees. I think you can make that a condition. You can say: listen, how are the guarantees arranged? The system follows from these safeguards. Now it is still often the case that we build a system and then look for the guarantees. That is why I think it is important that we now, although too early, it is not too early, because it is described as being on time to say: listen boys, if you want to make legislation and if you want to make speed, that's fine, but these are your guarantees. I just want to be able to shout "ho" somewhere on an individual level. That's gonna take a bit of a system. That's okay at all, but the systems are there for us and not the other way around. Let's see how we can learn in all due care from the processes we've been through where people really got stuck and just really got ruined. Let us now ensure that we in the European Union, a powerful complex of people who are capable of really making a dent in a pack of butter for the future, do not lose individual values. Because we are a community of values. It's about that person. It's about human rights. We always look at the countries around us. We are pointing our finger at these human rights. But in principle, if people fall between feet or get caught up in legislation that we should have said afterwards that we should have thought better about, we should have thought better about it. I'm serious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u33	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. This story also has a link with European identity. That is an important point. We can all benefit from that, too. But those same concerns lead to different questions. How do you deal with that? How do you control it? How do you hold control? Who's supervising? Finally, Mr President. The VVD Group sees several reports in newspapers that the recovery fund could become permanent and that countries would direct it. My group has been seriously asked to do so: that cannot be the intention. Above all, we need to keep it temporary and one-time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you. Mr Paternotte has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u36	I have one more question. Digital matters are also prominent on the agenda. Our parties share the commitment to a level playing field in Europe, including taxation. I therefore found it very nice to see in the VVD, both in the programme and in the billing, that the VVD also wants a digital service tax at European level, as well as a majority of the parties in the Chamber. Wouldn't it be a good idea for us to send the Prime Minister to the European Council from now on to advocate this on behalf of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr. Bosman, a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u38	If it's in our program, of course it has to be. I'm sitting here looking at the tables, like I said. I think it's a sensible question and a good idea. If it's in our program, it's always a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u39	If it is in our programme, Mr Bosman says it has to be. I am totally satisfied with that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u40	That's good. Thank you, Mr. Bosman. Oh, there's another interruption by Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u41	Perhaps I missed something, but I expected Mr Bosman to say something about the situation in Turkey, the situation in China, the women's rights that are now under pressure, the Istanbul Treaty that is now being denounced. The relationship with Turkey is relevant in the context of migration and asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u42	It was not in my speech; I am very honest in that. I have made a number of specific points because I am concerned about the future of the European Union. But now that I am asked, I am absolutely concerned about the relationship with Turkey. The Istanbul Treaty has been denounced by Turkey, which I consider to be both unwise and inappropriate. We are a European Union, a community of values. Turkey wishes to join those values, which was at least so in the past, so I can assume that these values are shared and that women's rights, but also those of homosexuals and transgenders, are respected. I believe that we should actively promote this and continue to promote it. We have an important role in this, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u43	Speaking time is limited, but this is precisely about the future of Europe. Turkey is extremely important in the way in which we shape it. Mr Bosman is a spokesperson in this area. How can it be that nothing on human rights in Turkey has been mentioned in the Council conclusions of the last two years? Has there been sufficient attention from the Netherlands to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u44	I don't think so. I'm gonna have to charge myself for that. Have I asked enough about that? Have I put enough emphasis on that? Have I told you enough that's part of the story I think is important? We should have brought that up better. Of course, I could have looked at the European Council and said 'you should have', but I always look at myself. Have I asked enough? Maybe not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u46	That sounds like an honest reflection. With that reflection, let's look into the future. Thank you for the fine cooperation we have had in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I call Mr Paternotte of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on the contributions of Mr Van Ojik, Mr Bosman and, as I say, Mr Voordewind. In any case, I am going to miss three of my fellow Members very much, for totally different reasons, quite frankly. Mr. Chairman. A European summit amidst the third corona wave, Europeans on a Chinese penalty list, with a conference on the future of Europe approaching: it only indicates that Europe will continue, even if the cabinet is decommissioned. As far as my group is concerned, last week has shown very clearly why European strength is needed. We can only get our freedom and our health back together. Strongness in the world calls for European unity. We need to move forward stronger together; we need to move forward now. Some countries sometimes wonder why the Dutch Prime Minister seems to be the only one who never puts a European flag behind him during the digital summits. The EU elephant distributed a picture showing all the Heads of Government, including Viktor Orbán, with the flag with the yellow stars behind them, except our Prime Minister. That flag is not here in the Chamber either, and that should change as far as we are concerned, but the point of the flag in the Tower goes a little further, because there is no flag at all. So let me suggest to the Prime Minister how to make this up to him: he can put on this unique, D66-made EU cover when he sits down for the video conference. I would ask the messenger to deliver this jewel to box K, which is very hygienically packaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u49	Is this what we can expect in the context of new leadership, that it's about the symbols? Honestly, I hope not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u50	I am going to make Mrs Kikkie very happy for the next ten minutes, but this could certainly be a very nice step by this Prime Minister, absolutely. Mr. Chairman. I start with corona, and especially the coronapas, also called the Digital Green Certificate. One of the most cherished freedoms offered by the EU is free travel without borders. This is important for the border regions, for our SMEs that trade across the border, for families who do not all live in the same country and also for Dutch people who would like to vacation this summer, whether or not with a caravan on tow the Route du Soleil. But since corona, boundaries seem to have been back away. The lockdowns and flight bans have kept countless families separate, even at times of great family suffering. The families eagerly await the opportunity to travel again without the weekly quarantines and the risk of getting stuck. Dutch people crave perspective. That is why we hope that the Prime Minister will want to get to work on time this time. Last summer's vacation was lost, but this one's still to be saved. There is now a proposal from the European Commission to make safe travel between countries possible again. D66 has always said that we need to look at how we can give people more freedom in a smart way, such as with a test or vaccination certificate. Don't keep the whole country closed until the last shot is set. This also applies to the EU. Now I read that the cabinet feels it is too early to take a position on this. But "too early" means especially on time. I think that's last year's lesson too. We are seeing more and more countries giving more freedom to vaccinees. We are now working on such a corona pass. So let's not bump back in Europe again. My question to the Prime Minister is this: will he help to achieve this European corona pass as quickly as possible? Of course, "as soon as possible" means right away. So I'd also like to ask the Prime Minister to appoint the safeguards. For example, when are we going to stop the European coronapas again? The idea in the Commission's concept is to do so once the WTO has declared the pandemic to be over, but it may well be that we in Europe have the pandemic behind us, but that is not yet the case throughout the world. So the question is also: shouldn't you set the corona pass automatically at some point, so that there is a horizon clause, as we already know with our own corona law? And if it stops, is it not better to end the whole regulation immediately instead of just suspending it? This instrument is meant for now, of course, for this pandemic, but it is not something to pull out of the fridge very often. In addition, it is of course essential that such a corona pass complies with all the privacy rules of the GDPR and that data are not stored centrally but in a decentralised manner. These conditions go well with the Commission proposal, but it must remain so. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. One more question about... Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u51	A question about Mr Voordewind! That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u52	I wanted to ask a question about vaccines, but I saw Mr Voordewind standing. And then I thought of Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yeah, nice. I have a question for Mr Paternotte about the corona passport. It's formally called the digital green certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u54	The Digital Green Certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u55	Yes. It is a good thing that Mr Paternotte lays down conditions for this. The cabinet has not yet given its opinion, but I assume we are moving in the same direction. We have a number of alternatives. You can vaccinate, you can test, you can check for antibodies in your body. I wonder whether Mr Paternotte also sees the danger that this might be dealt with discriminatoryly. So once you've been vaccinated, you don't have to quarantine. If you've been tested, you might still have to quarantine. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u56	I have read the European Commission's proposal. This is precisely to prevent this discrimination and to ensure that anyone who has either been tested negative or has been vaccinated or has already experienced the virus infection is treated equally when it comes to the freedoms that Member States themselves give to people who have such a national corona pass or health card. That is exactly what we need: that you can use your Dutch corona pass anywhere in Europe and enjoy the same freedoms that everyone can enjoy there. And you can also see more and more countries that are already saying: we want to allow vaccinees from outside Europe at all and give those freedoms. Estonia, for example, is at the forefront of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u57	We also have a debate on corona this afternoon. I do not rule out this point coming back. But I also understand that it is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u58	The Commission's proposal is, of course, with the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yeah, it's in the Council. That is why it is also on the agenda here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u60	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u61	Then there's another follow-up question. As it is now proposed, that testing is an alternative to vaccination. But it says: as long as one hasn't been vaccinated. Of course, there can also be a situation in which people deliberately do not want to be vaccinated. And then, of course, the crucial question is whether or not this discrimination exists. We shouldn't be forced into vaccination. Several statements have also been made about this in the Chamber. Does the D66 group also stand for this freedom in order to eventually be able to opt for testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u62	Yeah, that's what we stand for. As far as we are concerned, testing must indeed be an alternative. But let us also be honest, because the way out of this pandemic has been vaccinating and not just testing forever. When I see that six out of ten French people actually don't trust AstraZeneca vaccine, I'm really worried if we'll be able to vaccinate enough in Europe, so we can say at some point that we've achieved group immunity in order to get that word right. So yes, we do stand for the right not to vaccinate you, but I do hope that we all here continue to encourage people to take the shot, because that is really very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u63	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u64	Finally, Mr President. Of course, that encouragement can always be possible, but there must always be that freedom not to do it. Despite the arguments that may exist, there can of course be arguments for not doing so on the other hand. I hope that the D66 Group will always allow this freedom to exist, and that it will not end up with discrimination as a second plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u65	We stand for this freedom, but let us also, as well as informed people in Parliament, show that there are, above all, very good reasons for taking the shot. There are also people who cannot do it because of their own health. In order to protect these people, it is very important that all people who can do so are vaccinated. Yes, as far as we are concerned, that should be freedom and testing should be the alternative, but I would encourage everyone to get the shot as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u66	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u67	That's what my next question is about, what went wrong with AstraZeneca, Mrs Kikken has been talking about this for a while. It turned out to be a very rare side effect of one in a million, which is also well treatable. But nevertheless, because one country was ahead of it and especially the Scandinavian countries followed, the whole sting was still. Not only did that mean that millions of people didn't have that shot, but that also caused confidence in that vaccine, which now makes six out of ten French people think that this vaccine is unsafe. I do not blame the cabinet here, but I do hope that the Prime Minister will also call on colleagues not to act on his own initiative next time, but that the EEA will simply have the opportunity to do its job. Mr. Chairman. There are two other dossiers that call for European strength. I mentioned the digital service tax just now in the debate with Mr Bosman. We were extremely pleased that the Prime Minister has signed conclusions that the EU is going to introduce new own resources. That was unthinkable four years ago, and that is a real step forward. So far, the House of Representatives has not made a clear statement on this, but here too, a majority seems now, in this Chamber and in the next, for a digital service tax at European level, at least when I look at the election programs of my own party, the CDA, the VVD, GroenLinks and the Labour Party. I would like a commitment from the Prime Minister to vote in favour of the European digital service tax and to make sure that it is implemented quickly. Then there is the rule of law in Poland, because at the beginning of this month another judge was denied access to his work. And a Polish writer is now in prison for three years for calling President Duda a moron. That is a Polish word, with which you can also be understood in Dutch and that you can also use it when talking about the government. It is time for the European Commission finally to send a strong signal to these Member States. Why hasn't the rule of law been used yet? I understand that the European Council discussed this in December and adopted conclusions, but these conclusions are not above European legislation. These conclusions may lead to us not doing anything about the further crumbling rule of law in Poland and Hungary for another two years. We don't have those two years at all. So does the government want to put more pressure on the European Commission to set in motion the rule of law mechanism? Mr. Chairman. I must say something about the future of Europe and the conference on it. Because just before the elections, on 2 March, Minister Blok sent a letter to the First Chamber, stating that the Netherlands is already expressing its opposition to any treaty changes, even before the conference even started and without any discussion with the House of Representatives. The Netherlands is now called the leader of the "dirty boxes," the dirty dozen of countries that say "we do not want a new treaty." I agree with that, because first of all, why does a outgoing minister decide just before elections that the Netherlands would not want a treaty change? The question is a little bit: what are we holding elections for? And where does the Minister base it on the fact that the Netherlands would not want to? Because from VVD to SP, parties have in their programs that they do want a treaty change. That is a very large majority of this and the next Chamber. In other words, if there are good ideas coming out of the conference for democratic improvements in the EU in terms of transparency or strength against major powers such as China, then as far as we are concerned, the Netherlands must be open to this, possibly with a treaty change. Europe in the world will increasingly need this power of action. Turkey has just been mentioned. The report by High Representative Borrell is positive about Turkey's new external stance, but we saw the departure from the Istanbul Convention last week. It's already been mentioned. I would also mention the possibility of bombing the YPG, the Kurdish militia that has defeated IS with us and for us, and the trial in Turkey to ban the largest Kurdish opposition party. These are three major steps away from free democracy and further away from stability in the region. Can the Prime Minister promise to press for a strong European response to these actions? Finally, Mr President. European unity is still the most essential to China. On the bright side, we saw this unit, too. This Chamber described the inhuman treatment of the Uighurs in Xinjiang as genocide. The EU has imposed sanctions against China. Despite attempts from Bejing to sow divisions in Europe, they succeeded. That is good, because these attempts have often been successful, but not this time. China has now come up with its own list of sanctions, without any justification. This list also includes Mr Sjoerdsma and the Dutch EU ambassador, together with eight other Europeans. This is how China is trying to silence our democracy. Critics are being attacked: our own representatives in Europe and the Netherlands. It will be up to the new Chamber, which will soon take place here, to take note of this "wolf diplomacy," as it is also called from China, but dealing with the most powerful country in the world is really something that we believe Dutch politics can unite. For years, the CDA has been warning against buying up vital infrastructure and agricultural land by Chinese companies. The VVD warns about economic espionage and knowledge transfers. GroenLinks came up with its own China strategy. Many parties have set out their own views on this. The common denominator is that we must cast naivety. That is why we earlier advocated, together with the VVD, a parliamentary investigation into Chinese influence in companies and knowledge institutions. We would like to thank the Prime Minister for his clear and open support for our colleague Sjoerdsma. I hope that the Prime Minister will also be firm in the European Council in order to preserve European unity. Only if the European Union pulls together can we fight China. Do not let our democracy be silenced by foreign superpowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mrs Leijten, a brief question to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u69	Yeah, about China. It is, of course, very bitter that an investment programme has been agreed, which we should not talk about. At the same time, however, our people's representatives are intimidated by such a list of sanctions. My question concerns the digitisation agenda. You're on that tax, and I think it's important that we talk about that. But there's also going to be a huge data link. There is even talk of speedy legislation. I know D66 as a very critical party when it comes to data coupling and its risks. What does D66 think about it being decided at the forthcoming European summit that we are going to focus on even more artificial intelligence, algorithms, data links and sharing, with all the risks that we have seen in public over the past six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u70	I believe that you have heard my colleague Verhoeven time and time again asking for attention to the importance of decentralised data storage and not linking data where this is not necessary. He also called for attention to be paid to setting up an authority at European level, which can ensure that these algorithms are not abused, that they are not discriminatory and that they are indeed transparent and public. Those are things that we are still calling attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u71	It is not in the draft conclusions; that is a bit of the problem. I assume that Mr Paternotte has read it as well. You cannot quote from it in this Chamber, but the single market for digital services needs to be strengthened. It's a one-time entry of data. Mr Bosman has already said it. They are then always there and are shared by everyone. That's a big, big risk. There is talk of the EU elephant. I like that very much, but everyone always does it on their own territory when it comes to their own story. But this is really gonna happen now. Rapid legislation means that this year or early next year there are directives that we have to sign here, while D66 and the SP, for example, are still fighting together against the law for the data linking of police forces. Are we going to name this EU elephant today and say that we do not want that route? Or does that not fit in with this debate for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u72	Thanks to your interruption, I've also appointed it. I think you have asked some very good questions about it. I want the answer to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mrs Leijten referred to this for a while, in response to Mr Paternotte's remarks about the relationship with China: the EU-China Investment Treaty. That's all of a sudden, sort of between Christmas and old and new. How are we supposed to look at that? We stand before our rule of law and our human rights. We protect ourselves from China wherever we can. We are in solidarity with our colleagues who will be on penalty lists. But we do grant China some kind of political victory, by coming to last year's trap with such a treaty. How should we weigh that in relation to all the things that I fully agree with, which Mr Paternotte has just said about our relationship with China?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u74	We have to be very critical about that. It is indeed an example of a case where you have economic interests and at the same time you see the human rights situation in China and China's dealings with other countries, which is becoming increasingly assertive and, in many respects, more aggressive. That happened just before Christmas, apparently because Germany thought it was extremely important at the time. But now, when I look at how people react to this sanction list, I also see that the thoughts on it are shifting and that there is a more critical attitude, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u75	Then the question is, and I sincerely believe that it is a question of what this should mean for the Netherlands' attitude. Mrs Leijten said, I believe, 'we are not about it', but we can, of course, take a position in the end. Other countries will do the same about that treaty. Is the Netherlands one of the countries that say what Minister Blok has always said so far, namely: you need economic relations to be able to speak forcefully about human rights? The same is true in the relationship with Russia. I mentioned the example of Nord Stream. Or do we say: no, you must also be prepared to put these economic relations on the scale so that we can defend human rights in this way? What's the balance on D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u76	The bigger story here is, of course, that we have thought from the West for a number of decades: if we draw China closer to us and improve those trade relations, then at some point that country will join the international rule-based order. We don't see that. We see that China wants to change that order and want a new order. They're literally saying that, too. When we look at what they said at the Anchorage conference and when you see the very open clash that the United States and China had there, you actually see two world orders opposite each other. It seems very clear to us which side we should be on. That also means hanging out together. In this respect, it is very good that President Biden will join the European Council tomorrow because of Corona. However, you would also like Europe and the United States to maintain closer contact, even when it comes to geopolitical issues of this kind. So, yes, we consider this naivety to be very important. That does not mean anything general about whether you can never make agreements on trade, but this investment treaty deserves a much more critical course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you. Mrs Kuik, very briefly, because I have not limited the number of interruptions, but I see that things are getting a little out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u78	Well, I'm not allowed to talk about the European summit very often, so I'll take advantage of it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u79	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u80	It's still a question. We see it in the relationship with Turkey, also through the migration deal. We see it in the relationship with China: we agree sanctions, but we come up with an investment agenda at the same time. Over the last two years, the human rights situation in Turkey has not occurred at all in the Council conclusions. So what makes it possible to expect a new cabinet to take an active part in this? We can say what we want, but what can we expect and what can we expect from D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u81	I would not want to wait for a new cabinet to do so, because tomorrow there will be a European summit and we will not all send the Prime Minister with a message to guard that unity against China for nothing. But let us not be too disgruntled about what this Chamber has done in this. My colleague Sjoerdsma's motion, which characterizes the extreme human rights violations in Xinjiang as genocide, has been adopted by this Chamber. Mr Van Helvert's motion on the Investment Treaty has been adopted. This House has made itself quite clear as one of the most critical countries in Europe, and I think that we must continue to do so, but above all we must get other European countries involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u82	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr Van Helvert has drafted a critical motion, but there are zero harsh sanctions in it and then there was the investment treaty. So in other words, how do we ensure that the fine words or the motions of this Chamber actually lead to actions by the cabinet? Otherwise, I do know that the course that's going to be risked is not gonna pay off at the end of the day. So no tricks in the debate. It is a serious question: what makes us really limit a bet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mrs. Kuik says: tricks in a debate. In my view, I am simply giving an honest answer to why we have a critical line here and think that Mr Van Helvert's motion should be carried out. I also believe that Mr Voordewind will shortly be presenting a critical motion which we will support. Mrs Kuik, of course, has more experience with cabinet participation, but I do not know exactly where this tone comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u85	The campaign's over, I'd say. Now say it to the point and point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u86	D66 has also been in the cabinet for the past four years. I see that the Chamber is constantly critical, of Turkey, of China. There's no shortage of that. But I do not see that in Council conclusions. I do not see this in concrete firm guarantees when it comes to the investment packages agreed with the same China. My question now is how we are going to take care of this and what we expect from the cabinet in the coming period, whether it is decommissioned or in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u87	You have just heard me say that Borrell has a rather positive report on the relationship with Turkey, which I do not think is entirely consistent with what is happening at the moment in the area of the Istanbul Convention, the detention of journalists, the fact that Turkey is one of the court suppliers of political refugees to the Netherlands at the moment, the bombing of the YPG, the imprisonment of a Kurdish MP and the attempt to ban the largest Kurdish party. I think the question you are asking is quite right and I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister what he is going to do with it. However, it seems clear to me that the European Council should at least hear a critical noise on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I'm replacing Vicky Maeijer today, because, as we all know, she gave birth to a son, Evan, on December 23rd. Something to think about. Mr. Chairman. It is a celebration, not only in the Vicky Maeijer house, but also in Brussels. Frans Timmermans can blow the champagne. Thanks to COOVID-19, European federalists can finally make meters. Now they must have thought about it in Brussels. The Green Deal, the digital union, the corona passport and now forward: the joy in Brussels has five reasons. Firstly, the European Commission has never had so much money at its disposal. A budget of 1,074 billion has just been approved, a recovery fund of 750 billion and a support package of 540 billion. In short, over the next seven years, Brussels will be able to distribute nearly 2,400 billion to the other Member States. That's as much as 1 billion a day. 1 billion a day you have to spend as Brussels. How good is that? The Netherlands donates 87 billion and guarantees 50 billion. In other words, if we translate that: every Dutchman gives €5,000 to the European Union and guarantees €3,000 to Member States such as Italy, Spain, Poland and Greece. We know the usual suspects. I hope that all Dutch people realize that by signing these deals they will give away €5,000. While the Dutchman threatens to drown mentally and economically, Rutte in Brussels is throwing our taxpayers' money to be found especially but not to be miserable. The Dutchman can join the food bank. When asked in the campaign whether he thinks it is necessary to transfer 5 billion to Italy as a gift, and what that is good for, this Prime Minister says: that is good for our exports. That's bullshit! If, according to Mr Rutte, the internal market means that we have to donate billions to other Member States in order to keep buying our products, then he is even worse off than I thought. Is he also transferring billions to Canada or the United Kingdom? We also have a trade agreement with that. Or Norway or Iceland? They are even in the internal market. Do they get billions so they can buy our stuff? No. Mr. Chairman. The second reason they are happy in Brussels is that the European Commission can finally, at last, make its own debts. They can borrow their own money on the capital market. Until now, this has been a no-go, but now the European Commission itself can borrow money on the capital market. It should not be called "eurobonds" or "eurobonds," but it is the European Commission's joint debt-taking with the 750 billion from the Recovery Fund and the 100 billion from SURE. Mr. Chairman. Then the third. Finally, Brussels can introduce European taxes. Now it's the plastic tax. We have just heard that even the VVD has in the election programme that they are now in favour of European taxes. How good is that, if Brussels can send us blue envelopes with yellow stars! They will no longer have to hold hands with the Member States, but they will be able to attack us themselves. The financial transaction tax, the ETS tax, the CO border tax, the CCCTB: they are all on the roll, even with date of introduction. It's all gonna happen. This is going to happen especially because they know that in the Netherlands no one is stepping on the brakes anymore. Since D66 and Volt have won so many seats, the Netherlands is no longer the critical note. The UK has also caltgestellted them with the Brexit, so we can quickly get a federal transfer union screwed up. That is very bad news for the Netherlands. This is at the expense of our prosperity and our sovereignty. Mr. Chairman. Dan covid. The European Commission is trying to draw on the coordination of the fight against covid. Well, we've seen what that coordination is all about. Purchasing and distributing vaccines is a mess. Orders will not be delivered or will be delivered too late. We even see European vaccines disappear abroad, because they are exported massively: 41 million vaccines that we desperately need in our own country have gone abroad. 10 million have gone to the United Kingdom, where they have already vaccinated 40%. The question to this outgoing Prime Minister is: does he not regret having left the purchase and distribution of the vaccines to Brussels? In the Netherlands 40% could have been vaccinated, following the English example. So we can spare the EU as a toothache. The only thing they're good at is arguing about money, about billions. We're seeing it now at the Brexit Damage Fund. The Netherlands would get money from that damages fund. France is now trying to take 250 million from that fund. We're seeing a fight about dolls. We see this as an example at the conference on the future of Europe. First Guy Verhofstadt had to be president, eventually someone else had to be, and now it has become 24 presidents. We're seeing an argument about the distribution of vaccines. We're seeing an argument about the right of veto. Some want to abolish it, others want to maintain it. Lots of fights, lots of power games with opposing interests in the European Union. But what they do well is play for Saint Nicholas, hand out money. Billions of other people's money is being distributed, our money is being distributed, because money is power. With money, the European Commission can make the Member States dance. They're pure blackmail. I'm gonna take a sip, because I hear I have a frog in my throat, Mr. Chairman. Someone in the room says that's the emotion. Mr. Chairman. Every day, the Netherlands transfers 25 million to Brussels. Every day. I hope that the representatives of the people and also the Dutch will finally consider this. What can you do in your own country for the 25 million? That is the price for our EU membership. That is the price of being part of that internal market. 25 million. We could've had 10,000 Ice Beds for that. I see Mr Bosman wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u90	I'd like you to finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u91	There's gonna be another piece now, because it's gonna get worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr. Bosman, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr. Van Dijck is talking about money. That is, of course, important. Does Mr. Van Dijck know the difference between imports and exports from the Netherlands? Does he know the difference between the value of imports and the value of exports within the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u94	No, I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u95	No, I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u96	I know we have a trade surplus worldwide, but I do not know specifically for the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u97	Within the European Union, that is 117 billion, every year. That's a nice earning model, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u98	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u99	Do you think we should stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u100	No, of course not. But we are not in favour of doing so through the internal market. You can do that with a trade agreement. We also trade with Canada. We also trade with the United Kingdom, but we do not give money to the United Kingdom to trade with it. Do you? Do you think we should give money to a country because it is willing to buy our products? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u101	No. We are making a great deal of money from the European Union. Let's be honest about that, too. We are making money from the European Union. If you compare imports with exports, you can see that we make a lot of money from the European Union. Mr Van Dijck is quite quiet about it, but I think he wanted to leave the European Union. I can't hear him about that. It would be nice if he were just to be very clear and say: we want to get out of the European Union and then we are going to conclude all these treaties on our own. Can you compare that with what is going on with the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u102	The United Kingdom also has a trade agreement with the European Union. It does not pay import tariffs and it can trade with the European Union. It doesn't pay us a penny anymore. Do you know what the United Kingdom paid Brussels every day? Double what the Netherlands pays. That's what it's made of. The United Kingdom now has 50 million extra a day to spend in its own country. That's why they can vaccinate. That's why they're doing so well. Unilever has even left for the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has the future. The European Union does not have the future. It's one chunk of shit and it's only gonna get worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u103	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u104	This discussion isn't about anything. We are now seeing how the United Kingdom is doing. People and companies are leaving. The concerns about the future of the United Kingdom are very great. In many young people, they only get bigger. I think it would be wise to make that voice sound clear too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u105	Carry on, Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u106	We'll see. The question is: why do you want to pay money to be a member of a trading bloc? Why do we now have to pay 5 billion to a country like Italy? Why should we give 4 billion to Spain? Give it up, huh? It's not a loan. We're not getting it back. I remember the VVD pressing that button when it was about a loan to Greece. It was said not a penny to Greece, that is against all agreements; no bail-out. I can still see the VVD. Now it is not about a loan of 3.2 billion to Greece; now it is giving 5 billion to Italy, 4 billion to Spain, 1.5 billion to Poland and 1 billion to Greece. You're in the middle of a sintering class with our tax dollars. You give 25 billion away as a gift to Southern Europe, and you say: do you know what we deserve? You're crazy if you do that. The HEMA doesn't tell people on the street either: here you have a tenner to spend in my shop. That's what the Netherlands does. If the other Member States do not want or can buy from us, that is a pity. Then we'll find another customer who wants to buy something from us. Mr. Chairman. In addition, the recovery and support fund will be added. That means another 25 million a day exposure. Mr. Rutte, do you realize that every day you give away 50 million of our money to Brussels, Milan, Madrid and Athens? The PVV therefore sees only one solution: to leave the EU as soon as possible, so that we can regain control of our own country, our own borders and our own money. Because we're not gonna throw away 50 million a day to be a member of an internal market, are we? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about Turkey. What about Erdogan's report against Mr Wilders? I'd like an update on whether that horrible report is off the table by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Mr. Tony van Dijck. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr President. The elections last week were not the elections that directly concerned the EU. However, they do affect the future of the EU, as has been pointed out in a number of interruptions. For short, I refer to the contribution of the VVD, in which the conference on the future of the EU was specifically addressed. The official EU site contains all kinds of roaring texts. I'm just quoting a sentence. "The conference on the future of Europe is a citizens-driven series of debates and discussions where people from all over Europe can share their ideas and build our common future." That's the opening line. So you have to participate and build on the common future. You may not place critical notes; that implies this sentence alone. But I won't go too far. Mr. Chairman. The SGP needs a clear story about how we are involved in this in our country and also as a Lower House. If the EU is going to consult citizens, then dot, dot, dot. So just a specific question and a request to the Prime Minister to make it clear: this is how the House of Representatives will be involved when it comes to decision-making, discussion and debate on the future of the EU. I've asked for that before. I will be very grateful to the Prime Minister for his concrete commitment. Mr. Chairman. I ask this all the more because we are once again seeing clearly how the EU claims certain matters and powers that lack their legal basis in the treaties. For example, we see this in the proposal for a green certificate in the context of COOVID-19. Firstly, healthcare is and remains a national and not an EU competence. Secondly, it is to be feared that this certificate will become a kind of red card for non-vaccines. The European Centre for Disease Control is also critical, partly because we still have insufficient knowledge of the immunity of the corona virus. Two questions on this point. How is the Prime Minister going to remind his colleagues that coordination around the fight against covid is important and must be done well, better than it has been so far, but that there is no legal basis for a health union, which is being discussed? The second question. How does the rapid decision-making on the EU Green Certificate relate to the Segers c.s. motion? dated 13 March last year on no irreversible steps in relation to a European vaccination passport? Of course, the SGP does support the availability of vaccines for poor countries. Then there is the internal market. As others have said, this is actually the EU's reason for existence, but before I start working on this point, perhaps...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u110	A brief question to clarify; I always like to use the Court's constitutional conscience for that. What if 27 countries say together that they want all 27 such green certificates, then there is nothing wrong with their legal basis? Mr Bishop pretends that this is happening again from Brussels, at the heart of the matter, but it is simply the Member States that can decide whether or not to do so. I don't understand the constitutional reserves. I imagine you'd say you're not in favour of such a passport, but the Prime Minister would have to say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mr Bishop can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u112	I think that this subtle action by the EU is becoming very visible. The Treaties make it clear that healthcare is not a matter for the EU. If the EU were to operate carefully, in this case, the European Commission could be of service to those 27 countries by saying: okay, we do not make an EU green certificate; if you want it, we will facilitate it, but the competence lies with you. It goes a bit in reverse order: 'we make an EU green certificate'. So, as Member States, you actually transfer your competence in this matter and transfer it to the European Commission. I find that subtlety here all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u113	My point is that I am doing this now on this subject, because I think it is quite often raised in debates on the European Union that those 27 Member States themselves are there and can decide whether or not they want to participate. If one of these 27 countries says it's out of the game, 26 countries will soon be able to introduce such a booklet. Mr Bishop gives the impression that this is about the transfer of powers to Brussels, whereas in fact 27 governments agree that it might be useful to introduce such a booklet together. That's why I'm making this point. Mr Bishop is now saying that this is a very subtle distinction, but that is not so subtle at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u114	Well, you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u115	Maybe you're right. Maybe it's not subtle at all and it's just very transparent. The fact that the European Parliament has to discuss this is very strange, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u117	That also indicates which route one chooses, isn't it? I would like to thank you for the conscientious approach of the state. We like to keep them up. Mr. Chairman. I have a few specific questions about the internal market. The cabinet wants a modern and independent competition policy. My question is: does the cabinet include the sustainability aspect? The second question arises from the fact that competition law makes it difficult to make market and price agreements for the sustainability of production, for example in agriculture. How does the Prime Minister intend to create more room for this? Mr. Chairman. Then the Digital Compass 2030. In an interruption by Mrs Leijten this has already been discussed in detail. Because of time, I agree with the questions. I expect that she will also ask concrete questions about this in her own contribution. That's what I'm getting ahead of. We often feel good about each other in terms of EU policies. Mr. Chairman. The agricultural components of the Green Deal are also mentioned in many ambitions, without an impact assessment underneath. In the meantime, plans by Member States are already reflecting these objectives, while there is no determination by Member States or a serious justification. There is something else that Mr Van Ojik has just put his finger on. Where are the numbers from the Green Deal? Mr President, finally, the Eastern Mediterranean. The situation there is on the agenda. I am thinking first of all of Israel. I have a few questions about that. What about the implementation of the Van der Staaij motion for a resolution on the resumption of formal talks within the Association Council to modernise EU-Israel cooperation in line with the Association Agreement? What initiatives are or are being taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u119	Yes, I had something about Turkey, but I agree with the questions asked, including about Russia. Given the time, I'm gonna leave it for what they are. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mr President, thank you. In the shadow of the elections, we are holding this debate. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his achievement. It has been mentioned before: the moment also feels a bit strange. There is a newly elected Chamber that has yet to be sworn in. But, yes, the world/EU is going crazy, so we are also continuing to debate. The role of Europe, also referred to as the EU Elephant, is a not insignificant subject, but rather rather absent from the campaign during the debates. The conference on the future of Europe will start in May this year. The path to establishing the Presidency was not promising, but the goal of allowing citizens, politicians, businesses and anyone who has an opinion on the future of Europe to talk about it is important for the legitimacy of the EU. I'm curious, too. We saw the message that, as the Netherlands, we have signed an amendment following the reaction of France and Germany. It is important to involve citizens, but it now seems as if we are closing things up in front. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about the European green certificate, about the proposed flexibility of the Stability and Growth Pact, about Turkey, about the Uighurs and finally about Brexit. The green certificate, also called the covid status certificate. I think everyone's watching that. Everyone is looking forward to the summer, to the holidays and everyone wants us to be able to go on a safe holiday. It is wise for Europe to look at this. If you look at the balance of free movement of persons and the prevention of infections, that is important. For the CDA it is important that the Netherlands can continue to determine how the status certificate is used. This is about proof of non-infectiousness, i.e. by a vaccine or by a recent negative test under supervision. I'd like to know if the Prime Minister has these basic conditions. Then the question is, how do you organize all this? Do countries agree in their basic conditions? Is there any uniformity to discover or is it a patch blanket? What coordinating role is there for Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u122	You had some parts. Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u123	I'm not done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u124	Maybe you could wrap this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u125	That's good. Of course, there are a lot of practical questions coming around the corner. For example: what legal status does such a certificate have and what consequences are there when a passport is not shown? What if you're not sufficiently digitally skilled? Is there a paper version? How long is a document of non-infectiousness valid if one is only tested? How is it handled, for example, with British and Swiss, people from third countries travelling across Europe? How are people informed about rules in each country? Who should the Dutch call if they want to make a test speech in France, Spain, Latvia or Poland? How did we arrange this in the Netherlands for tourists coming here? How is the check carried out? Can the Prime Minister tell us what he's got on this? Finally, does the Commission guarantee that the data will be stored in the Member States themselves? Can the Prime Minister explain this? How is the summer vacation anticipated? Is there going to be an information campaign for the summer about how the covid status certificate works?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u127	That's a lot of questions. Mrs Kuik says: it is good for Europe to look at this. In this pandemic, it's a bit of a hurry to get things done. That starts, I think, with the question: do you want this? And if we want to do that, then a great deal of speed must be made to achieve it with all the guarantees that you rightly call it. My question is a little bit: do we want this? We have hesitated for a long time in the Netherlands about the pass. We're gonna do it now. You can see that happening in most European countries. Then we can see together that we want it to be possible this summer for one piece of evidence to go all over Europe and enjoy the same freedoms that people enjoy when they are vaccinated/tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u128	It is important that we coordinate this, but under the conditions I have mentioned. And there are still a lot of questions. Maybe you've got that all sharp, but I haven't gotten that sharp yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u129	I see a lot of points. The decentralised data storage should not take place centrally. In fact, it's just about making what countries do nationally interoperable. But there's another interest. The United States says that they want to be able to admit Europeans again from May onwards. The condition is, of course, that they know the corona status, so that they know that this will not result in a new spread of the virus. So for that, too, you actually need this. It is also a bit of a question on behalf of the tourist industry and the families who want to travel. Do you say "I call on the Prime Minister to take care of this, or do you say "it is good to look at this and wait before we make a decision"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u130	I don't think we disagree on that. Everyone's craving for that holiday abroad, too. We just need to look at how we can make this as easy as possible for people, so that it is also clear and clear. But there are still some hooks and eyes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u131	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u132	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to stability. No, wait, I have another question about COVAX. The cabinet advocates a voluntary donation scheme. This is linked to the development of national vaccination programmes. In addition to being fair, it is also in our own interest that the poorest countries should also have access to vaccines. Can the Prime Minister indicate how far the EU is with this donation scheme? Let me now turn to the Stability and Growth Pact. The euro summit will discuss the international role of the euro. There is no international role if we do not have a decent monetary union with sustainable public finances in it. The Commission has proposed that at least the escape clause should continue to apply until 2023. My group understands this, because Member States are in severe economic conditions, but we are very concerned about the increasing debt and the persistent budget deficit in several Member States. The joint euro requires the responsibility laid down in the Stability and Growth Pact. Some countries are openly arguing for the total abandonment of the budgetary rules. And let that be just the countries with a debt higher than 100% of GNI. The sustainability of the euro is at stake. If the economic situation improves, we will have to do something about these debts, because those debts are gonna run out of steam and everyone can feel who is gonna take over those debts. Does the Prime Minister see this concern? Does he have this concern too? And if so, how does he intend to anticipate this so that we can prevent it? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to Turkey. Last Friday, President-in-Office of the Council Michel and President of the Commission Von der Leyen spoke with Erdogan about the relationship between Turkey and Europe. They're trying to avoid the relationship... sorry, I'm just distracted by some noise in the room. I'm gonna start over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u133	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u134	They have indicated that the relationship normalizes. But a little later Erdogan cancels participation in the International Women's Convention. It is precisely this treaty that is aimed at tackling violence against women and promoting emancipation. That offered me an extra reality check, which showed me how brave Lale Gül is, the Dutch-Turkish woman trying to live freely. This is the current she's going against. We must do more than just condemn it, precisely to show emancipated Turkish girls in the Netherlands that we stand for their rights. I see a two from Minister Blok that says it's disappointing, but it can't just be two. Stepping out of this treaty is a step towards greater inequality and greater isolation and violence against women. Why doesn't the government condemn this more strongly? Can the Prime Minister indicate exactly what options we have for expressing our displeasure and encouraging Turkey to change course when it comes to human rights? I am referring above all to practical consequences for Turkey. The CDA believes that the EU should quickly seek a new relationship with Turkey based mainly on economic cooperation, but this cannot be achieved without a human rights clause. Think of the imprisoned lawyers, journalists and political opponents, including the women's rights treaty. I'm coming to the cup of Uighurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u135	Clear language about Turkey. What could the consequences be on behalf of the CDA towards the cabinet? I'm gonna look into that. Mrs Kuik mentions a number of negative developments in Turkey, but what should be the consequence? Is the CDA Group looking at tightening up the personal sanctions, as we are doing now with Russia and China? There are aid programmes for Turkey. Is that what the CDA group is watching?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u136	I think we should look at all the options that have that effect. I think it's important, the CDA thinks it's important that we set up the Women's Rights Convention. There are still plenty of countries that have not ratified this. This is also an opportunity to make another statement about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u137	Keep all options open, I understand. But it is of course good to know what the CDA itself finds towards the cabinet. A number of groups have already spoken about it. There are a number of options on the table. You call yourself the Istanbul Treaty. There is now a major undermining of the rule of law. The Kurdish party HDP may be prohibited. So which way are you thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u138	I'm not ruling out any of the sanctions. I think we should look at how we can actually get Turkey the other way. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what options he considers most effective. We absolutely need to look at how we actually have an effect, rather than just words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u140	Then the Uighurs. On the black list, you speak out against human rights violations against the Uighurs in China: that is, of course, bizarre and unacceptable. We are also standing alongside our colleague Sjoerdsma. A disaster is taking place under the eyes of the world. Because it's China, a giant, we do nothing, or far too little. It's okay that we've now imposed sanctions. But aren't human rights the cornerstone of European soft power? We, Europe, really must take a firm position on the Uighurs. We, with our apple from the history of our continent. We must demand that an observation team be given access to Xinjiang, that China be given openness and that guarantees be given for the well-being of the Uighurs. If China does not want to do so, we need strong sanctions. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. There is a report from an American NGO which shows beyond doubt, on the basis of the 1948 UN Genocide Convention, that genocide is being committed. We endorse that convention. Is the Prime Minister familiar with this report? I would ask him to draw up this report in the Council of the EU and ask him to bring it up at the UN so that it can be officially established whether genocide is being committed. Mr President, a short question on the Brexit. It's not going well on the Irish border. The fact that the EU has started a legal procedure is enough. I would ask the Prime Minister to ensure that this can not be resolved by diplomatic means. What role does the Partnership Council play? Fortunately, a first agreement has already been made on fishing quotas. Can the Prime Minister tell us how he looks at this deal? Can he indicate what this means in concrete terms for Dutch fishermen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union. Mr Voordewind, also for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr President, I hear you saying: last time. I'm afraid to say it again, because you never know how changeable politics is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u143	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u144	So I'm gonna leave those lyrics out. At least we're still in service until March 30th. Mr. Chairman. This is an important debate on the European Council. As a chamber, of course, we still want to send messages to the Prime Minister. Initially, they will cover the coronavirus and in particular the green certificate. The Christian Union is also concerned about this. We were just discussing it in an interruption debate with Mr Paternotte when exactly what is going to apply when it comes to vaccination or testing. Isn't there going to be some kind of bipartisan, or two traces, when it comes to that green certificate? I would therefore ask the Prime Minister if he can clarify that, because we are concerned about that. That's what we are about the word "still." If people haven't been vaccinated yet, does that mean that the people who have had the chance to do so will have lost their chances of having a green card even if they've been tested? I'd like to hear it from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question: have we actually put our fate in the hands of the WHO, the World Health Organisation? Or are we going to say as Europe and, even better still, as a Member State, until when we are going to use it? The final question on this issue concerns the fair distribution of vaccines worldwide. The Minister and the Cabinet are discussing a voluntary donation scheme linked to national vaccination programmes. National vaccination programmes from whom? What is the Netherlands prepared to contribute to this? I like to hear it. Then Turkey, Mr President. It seems that the EU is really looking for positive points in its attitude towards Turkey. Mr Borrell, the High Representative, has produced a report that you can actually go two ways: a number of sanctions, but also alternatives to see how to strengthen that relationship. I see that colleagues have already mentioned it, so I am going through it very quickly only a month ago that there was a confrontation between Greece and Turkey when it came to that research vessel near the Greek waters. We have also seen that Turkey has withdrawn from the Istanbul Convention. They are threatening to ban Kurdish party HDP. Human rights violations are taking place in Northern Syria, in the areas occupied by Turkey. Is it not time to really look at a set of personalised sanctions, as we now know against Russia and China? The Chamber has already urged the cabinet to take an arms embargo towards Turkey, but we also know that it is a bit cherrypicking of the Member States. Can the Prime Minister once again raise the issue of the importance of an arms embargo against Turkey in the EU? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the relationship with Russia and China. Russia's Foreign Minister, Lavrov, has actually said that there is no longer any relationship between Russia and the EU. What does that mean? Is he going to get his ambassadors back from the European Union? But, and that is perhaps even more important to us, if he says that, what does that mean for those EU financial aid programmes towards Russia that we still support? Can the Prime Minister explain that? Which programs are those exactly? Should we not reconsider or possibly suspend these programmes now that we have heard this strong language from Russia's foreign minister? Both Russia and China have been pecked at by a number of sanctions that the EU has finally imposed, following an endless series of human rights violations. China is now imposing sanctions on our colleague Sjoerdsma. But I say to my fellow Members: we are standing here alongside Mr Sjoerdsma. We must not let this happen. I therefore welcome the reaction of the Prime Minister and of the Foreign Minister, who has taken the same critical attitude towards this measure towards our colleague. We know that in the province of Xinjiang there is a criminal regime against the Uighurs and forced labour is taking place. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister, Mr President, to consider a second-term motion on this point: should we not reconsider the investment treaty that we have just concluded with China, while we are now imposing sanctions against China, and at least make the four fundamental ILO conventions, the four fundamental International Labour Organisation conventions, need to be ratified and implemented before entry into force? I ask the Prime Minister to respond to that point. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say this because I see that my time is up. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their very pleasant cooperation in various committees and here in the plenary. I wish the new Members of Parliament a great deal of wisdom and a good balance between work and their loved ones. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u145	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. We're really gonna say goodbye. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. You were right to say we're gonna say goodbye. I am sure we will see the colleagues we are talking to today and who we are saying goodbye to. I wish them all the best. Of course, I would have preferred to have seen completely different election results. Maybe we didn't talk enough about the future of the European Union in the campaign, but it's about it again today. And what is my surprise? The Netherlands has signed an amendment to a European Commission plan on how that debate should be conducted, but we do not know that amendment. Why is that? This Parliament I am with Pieter Omtzigt the rapporteur on this issue in Europe often works together with the government for transparency in Europe. And what happens at the next opportunity to practice it? Chance missed! How? I'm really wondering. How? You draw something that means a control option for us, and you don't send it to the Chamber. It's in the papers, but it's not in parliament. If this is the new leadership, if this is the new Ruttedoctrine, then I'm done already! We shouldn't do this. I have just asked Mr Bosman of the VVD to ask for this amendment together; there was a reluctant 'yes'. I am now asking the Prime Minister: can you ensure that we have that amendment for your first-term response? Huppetee, out with it; don't leak the newspaper, just send it to the Chamber. We still get the draft conclusions as secret documents; we cannot talk about them. We're gonna have to deal with that. I assume that D66, with the new leadership, writes down a lot about that transparency in the new government agreement. 'Cause you can fly a flag, but if you can't talk about it in parliament, it's not gonna do you any good. And then there's something else I need to get off my chest. It is always said that there are sceptical parties against the EU. In a real debate on the future of Europe, you can talk about all the noises; then you cannot push them away as inferior, as something you do not have to listen to. Because when the debate is conducted like this, you exclude a lot of people from that debate. And if you exclude people from that debate, you exclude them from control and from the feeling that this affects them too. In my view, that is the major problem with the debate on the future of the European Union. A lot of people feel like this isn't about me. And if we're gonna break up with that, we need to break up with that frame. Mr. Chairman. Digitisation is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u147	On the previous point, Mr Paternotte has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u148	We share the dissatisfaction with the lack of transparency and the fact that the cabinet seems to have taken a position without consulting the Chamber; that is where we find each other. Mrs Leijten has mentioned the new leadership a number of times, but there is, of course, another party that has won the election: the VVD, with the slogan 'Together stronger'. As far as we are concerned, this is also about Europe: that we must make it stronger together. We can talk about the discontent about the process, but we can also look at the content. The conference on the future of Europe is coming up. Does the SP therefore propose that we should, for example, discuss a decision to ensure that decisions on external relations can be taken by qualified majority, so that sanctions can be applied more easily so that Europe becomes more effective in the world? Are you open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u149	We are open to working together where we can, but not if it becomes a dictation. You know our position. We do not think that giving up sovereignty and vetos is necessary. We call for a European Union in which we work with the people who want to, but in which we do not impose it on those who are unable to keep up or who do not want to keep up. This is also a form of European cooperation. You don't have to do that. You don't have to do that. You put it away as anti-European, but it's not. The Scientific Council for Government Policy has already issued a very clear opinion on this matter a long time ago. It says that with such a flexible Europe, the CDA has put it also in the electoral programme, and that it can also have a future. In the case of asylum and migration, for example, you do not have to wait so long for a blocking minority. Then you can definitely move on. For foreign policy, we would not give up our sovereignty, because the relationship you have with other countries is always about the position you want to take as a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u150	That is, of course, very unfortunate. The CDA did indeed advocate that we should become more effective towards the rest of the world, including by actually lifting those vetos in foreign policy. I heard that during the campaign in a debate. If the rest of the world is looking at Europe, is it necessary that they do not see Europe as 27 separate parts, but that they know that Europe as a bloc can stand strong? Unfortunately, the SP doesn't want to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u151	I would really hate for the European Commission to sign an investment treaty with China, which we can no longer criticize. I'd really hate to be said to forget it, because you've given away your authority. I think it is terrible that we should not talk about that treaty with the United Kingdom, because a bunch of Brussels lawyers said it was an EU-only agreement. You run sovereignty in the debate with some sort of picture that makes you more capable. We are capable because we have a huge internal market, because we are talking about 500 million consumers. That's so strong. You don't have to break that down by putting sovereignty at risk every time. In any case, that is not the future of European cooperation which the SP would like to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u152	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u153	Then I'd like to turn it around for a while. Thank you, by the way, to all my fellow Members who have expressed their solidarity with my colleague Sjoerdsma. But Europe was only able to impose these sanctions on China, because all 27 countries agreed. No Member State has said that we do not want that. But does the SP really think that one country, for example Malta or Cyprus, should always be able to stop the imposition of sanctions? In this way, Europe will never really be able to make a strong fist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u154	I suggest that when sanctions are very necessary, a group of countries can also say that we do so outside this cooperation. And if Cyprus stops anything, Cyprus will not participate. You'll go faster. Then you're gonna work together more flexibly, even where you want to. Then there are no more blockades. We would have been able to act much faster and much better on the issue of refugees, and we would have allowed ourselves to be blocked knowingly and knowingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u155	Please continue, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr. Chairman. The digitalization. We are also still talking at the European summit about draft conclusions that are already there. That is often not what the debate is about, because you cannot talk about it. But I'm talking about it today anyway. I am talking about a single market for digitisation and the economy. We're getting a single digital market. The Heads of State or Government of the Member States call on the European Commission to work quickly on legislative proposals. Then it's about sharing all kinds of information. Mr Bosman has already said something about it. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister the following. You've seen what happened to running algorithms wrong, having blacklists, sharing that kind of information about people and how that destroyed their lives. That has not been restored to this day. Could you please bring this to the top? Because we shouldn't have the sacred faith. We need to be careful about speed here. And of course, there are all things that you can do and solve faster with digitization, hopefully. But even in this digital compass, the European Commission's mission to governments is to be completely digital by 2030. We have just seen, after unprecedented injustice and after the Bosman Committee's report, that we must not lose the human dimension either. And then we're gonna get overwhelmed with laws from Brussels where we don't have them again. I would really like to call for this scratch on the Prime Minister's office to be used to make the other Heads of Government aware of this. Because I do know how that works in the offices of the law machine in Brussels. There's not that human mate at the table, there's not those faces at the table. There are companies at the table who want to. That's where the makers sit at the table. That's where the processes and the consultants are at the table. And then the process went well, but the content is forgotten. We're dealing with people here. It's about human rights, it's about privacy. This is also a fight against institutions that have sometimes become even by laws, also by implementing them to something we have never wanted. And if we are going to have to solve this in the Netherlands, it would be a shame if we were to get that out of a pervasive train. I'm asking the Prime Minister for that commitment. And then there are the arguments about vaccines and the opening up of our European society. Ships are being stopped, there are more AstraZeneca vaccines in storage for other countries produced in Europe than are being pricked in Europe. How could this have gone so wrong? The European Commission has taken this out of our hands: 'we are going to buy it, one market, very good'. How could this have gone so wrong? We are now in danger of arguing with Australia and the United Kingdom because Member States say: ho, I am not gonna let go of those vaccines. I get that sentiment, of course it doesn't fit at all, but what's wrong? What contracts have been signed there? So many billions have gone. I can't explain it. I cannot explain that our vaccination programme is going wrong, but I also cannot explain that we are now in the middle of a vaccine war. We have adopted motions on the production of all kinds of things in our own hands, in our own countries, in our own Europe. It's there, it's all sold. Big Pharma is, of course, the laughing third, but what are we gonna do about this? And then there's the green card. It's all being sold as "we want to go on vacation so badly." No, of course it's the industry that wants us to come. But safety is the key. I think it is wise to develop something that is safe, but should it be done again via the European turntable? I wonder if that's what we want. We have signed a motion which has also been adopted in which we say 'ho, ho, take it easy'. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk very much about Turkey, and I agree with what Mrs Kuik said about that. Women's rights, human rights, are being violated in such a way that we can no longer remain silent about it. I also call on the Prime Minister and all the other Heads of Government to stop talking about it. When it comes to China, I cannot ignore the fact that we have a parliamentarians here who are on a penalty list, but at the same time a debate that we are asking for on an investment programme is simply blocked by that same party. How about we stop doing that now? On the one hand, say 'it can't be, there's a limit', and on the other hand, let the economy and investment all go first. Finally, Russia. Yesterday there was a big article in Follow the Money about the ongoing discussion between the Netherlands and Russia on gas. How are we supposed to explain that? What faces of the government do we see here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u157	You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u158	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mrs. Chicken, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u160	I was just reminded that Europe is also planning to expand the customs union, the customs union, and that Germany is out of business. Was Mrs Leijten also aware of this and how does it rhyme with the fact that we are just trying to put the condemnation of human rights on the map?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u161	It is not in line with human rights, it is not in line with the position of the Chamber in which we say 'we no longer want to apply for accession to Turkey'. It is not in line with what the Dutch government has been saying for a long time: "we actually support it, but we can't get through it." I would say: have we given up vetos here? Probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the Prime Minister and I'm suspending the meeting until 1.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u163	We will continue with the debate on the European Summit. We've come to the Prime Minister's response. I would like to ask a maximum of five questions in this period. We have nine spokesmen, so count it out: five times nine... I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mr. Chairman. A few important issues were raised. Actually, a lot of subjects: I'll tell you very quickly how I'm going to do it, because it's hard for me to put them in heads. The conference on the future of Europe and Mrs Leijten's question on this subject. Dan covid. Then everything around digital. Then Turkey, Brexit, China and Russia. Finally, there are a number of questions that I cannot place at one of these cups. I say to Mrs Leijten that we will send the Chamber the non-paper on that conference. I do not know how to do that technically; that is now being investigated. I think it has to be through the State Department. Why didn't we send this to the Chamber before? Because there's nothing new in it and we never send non-papers to the Chamber if it says what the Cabinet is doing. The cabinet has previously reported to the Chamber, namely on 14 February 2020, i.e. more than a year ago, that priority at the conference should be that it should be as practical as possible and include the implementation of the Commission's priorities. It shouldn't be an excuse for a treaty change. This has already been discussed with the Chamber and, in that sense, this non-paper with eleven other Member States contains nothing new. We often make these non-papers, and only when new policies are in place will we actively send them to the Chamber. But this non-paper will of course come to you. That is also the answer to the question of why we are not committed to a treaty change. Well, because we are committed to no treaty amendment, in accordance with the previous debate with the Chamber on this. I would also like to say something about this to Mr Van Ojik, Mr Paternotte and others, but certainly also to Bram van Ojik, with whom I have had the greatest pleasure in discussing this subject in recent years. Then it is also about the question: what do you ultimately want with Europe? This will also be reflected in the soon to be published State of the Union 2021, in which we will further develop it. But that brings back the three principles that have always been decisive for me personally, for the cabinet and for the coalitions I was allowed to lead. Firstly, it is a Union of safe Member States, moving towards a higher level of prosperity. Convergence towards a higher level of prosperity is, of course, important. Mr Bosman referred to the establishment of the Union, with the ECSC, for coal and steel. If you produce them together, you can't create cannons that aim at each other. There was also a peace aspect, "no wieder Krieg," but of course there was also this thought: if you start shaping the common market from those products, it will lead to a higher level of prosperity. The second is to increase the European capacity to act on the world stage. We will be discussing many issues in this area in a moment: Russia, China and other matters relating to the European Union. I say to Mrs Leijten: then you are not there with 'o, there is no unanimity, then a few Member States do it among themselves'. No, then you, for example, when it comes to sanctions, really have to be prepared to give up QMV, is my opinion. Otherwise, we cannot increase the European geopolitical capacity for action. Finally, it is also a Union that operates effectively internally, which respects the democratic rule of law. For me, these are the three pillars, the three basic principles. I would like to summarize this: a Union that provides market and currency, but also a Union that ensures security, in an uncertain world. It's about working together. I do not talk about security as NATO delivers. That is, of course, defence-related security. But it is about the security that comes from intensive cooperation with other countries, with similar cultural and social views, which support the liberal rule of law. Then it's about the equality of man, woman, gay, straight, white and black. I also mention non-discrimination and freedom of education. The joint endorsement of these important principles leads to a strong Union. Indeed, a piece of vision, I would almost like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u165	I'd still like to see if you've finished the first part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u166	This is actually the first block. I'll see if there were any other cases. On this specific point, Mr Bishop asked about the future of Europe how the Chamber would be involved. This was also discussed in a general consultation with Minister Blok for Foreign Affairs on the General Affairs Council of 13 October 2020. If the cabinet decides on the citizens' consultations, consultations will be held with the Chamber before these consultations are held. The exact design will also come back. In the letter to the Chamber of 2 March, which dealt with the joint declaration, the Cabinet undertook to ensure that the information provision during the conference was as closely as possible in line with the existing information arrangements and to involve them in the decision-making process. Of course, this is always complementary to the participation of the Dutch Parliament, which you do yourself through COSAC at the conference. Finally, on this particular point, there was the question of how people in the country are involved. Once again, you will be talking, among other things, about how you are going to shape these consultations in the context of the conference and how you are going to ensure that people in Europe can express their opinions and wishes and that all these sounds can be heard and make sure that they are already included in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u167	Before I give you the floor, Mr Paternotte, I would like to appeal to you to ask the question immediately and not to provide it with general introductions. Give me a good example, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u168	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman. Vision is beautiful, but it has to be in line with practice. If the Prime Minister says here that this conference should not lead to treaty changes, when he says to Mrs Leijten: 'we must indeed go to QMV on foreign policy or vote by qualified majority', then I wonder how he intends to achieve that without treaty change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u169	What we have said is that there are many things that the Netherlands would consider important if there were to be a treaty change. QMV is one of them, but there are also many things about the governance of the euro that the Netherlands has views on. They are on the pile and if there is ever a treaty change, the Netherlands will bring them in. I believe that for good reason, it has been chosen not to focus on treaty change in the context of this conference. This conference should be very practical about how to implement the priorities of the European Commission, the European Council for this legislative period and, of course, also work after 2024. This is not a debate that should lead to a new balance between institutions and power relations in Europe. If we do that, then you'll actually sink back into a Lisbon process 15 years ago. We're all still frowning on that as if we've had a heavy table, so I don't think we should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u170	Mr Paternotte, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u171	The Prime Minister says if there ever is a treaty change. In doing so, he is a bit of a direct object in Europe, while we have one of the longest-standing Heads of Government, which forms coalitions on the assembly line, whether that is Visegrád or the dreary four or now the dirty boxes. They are also every time of those names that I wonder if you really want to join them as the muppet of Europe. At the same time, he says that treaty changes are needed. Is it now waiting for other countries to initiate something after this conference? Or does he say: I do not rule out the fact that there are proposals from that conference that will eventually change the treaty? That is what I would like to hear, because he is right to say that we need more power in foreign policy, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u172	This cabinet, with D66 on board, has decided to use this conference to ensure that this does not result in a treaty change. The focus is on priorities for the coming years and on how to speed them up along the lines that I have just outlined and which will also return to the State of the Union. That is also our general commitment to this conference. That does not alter the fact that, once there is a change in the treaty in Europe, the Netherlands also has wishes. But a treaty change is also a Pandora's box. That is why the Netherlands, in the context of this conference and more generally, says: yes, if a treaty change is at issue, the Netherlands has wishes, but a treaty change also has great risks. We saw in 2005 and 2006 where that could lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u173	It had to be short, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u174	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u175	I thought you said something like that, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u176	And you always keep it very short, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u177	I will do my best to make a good impression on you this afternoon, Mr President. The Prime Minister says: "Indeed a piece of vision." That's interesting. He calls those three... they're actually goals he's talking about. What is the European Union doing on earth? This is what this is about. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister, if you will, Mr President. There are very often very specific dilemmas facing European leaders. The Prime Minister knows that much better than I do. It is about how you stand up to the recovery plan, the MFF, refugee deals, the accession of Albania and northern Macedonia or the start of accession negotiations. My picture is that the Netherlands often sits on the extremely cautious side, no matter how you define it. I think the Prime Minister knows exactly what I mean. The question is whether the Prime Minister should not be prepared to break with this cautious attitude in Europe and say: there are such great challenges that we can only address at European level that I am going to take a step forward on a number of points. That's actually the background to the story I just loved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u178	Yeah, but that depends on the subject. If you talk about Europe on the world stage, that we are not a playing field, but a player: that is one example where Europe needs to do more. Even Germany and France, no matter how big they are, are ultimately medium-sized countries compared to China and America. Russia is of course a lot smaller, but in terms of size and defence-impact it is again a large country. Yeah, that's the subject. But when it comes to convergence to a higher level of prosperity, for example, this cabinet is of course inclined to say that this is only going to happen if countries in southern Europe reform too. One of the major problems in the European Union is that countries in southern Europe have not sufficiently reformed in the area of pensions and the labour market. Then you get the problem that they're not participating in that convergence. In fact, if there is a crisis, like now with corona, they are not sufficiently able to support their companies, as the Netherlands itself. You have to do this in a European way. Then we said: we are prepared to do so once, but in exchange for reforms. This is an example of a movement in Europe to support southern Europe, where we have tried to say that this is a one-off and in return for the necessary reforms. That is an immediate answer to Mr Bosman on that point. At the time, it was a reproach to the cabinet: France and Germany are pulling this, why is Rutte no longer European? I think it is very European to say: I wish Italy and other countries to implement these reforms. Not that the Netherlands is doing so brilliantly, but at least we can arrange aid funds ourselves without appealing to European colleagues. They can't do that there. That's what they need our help for. I think if they reform now, they'll be able to do it next time. This also applies to France and Spain, and some of them are already doing so to a certain extent. That is an example of the accusation that is often made to me: are you European enough? Yeah, I think so, but maybe not in the classic sense that we're right behind France and Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u179	That is indeed a very good example, because I heard the Prime Minister say it very often in the debates that are behind us. "They need to reform. Everyone must clean their own streets before we can do anything." That's a metaphor the Prime Minister likes to use. I am not concerned about whether this is more or less pro-European. I am concerned about whether you are prepared to face up to the responsibility we have as the Netherlands. I mentioned the Netherlands as a tax haven. We are still in the top three or four of the lists published worldwide. I mentioned the huge surplus on the balance of payments. Mr Bosman also spoke about it. This is good for the Netherlands, but also has effects elsewhere in Europe. So you can't isolate it. You cannot say "we appeal to them to reform" without looking at your own actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u180	Of course, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u181	I tried to make that clear under "leadership."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u182	As for the first thing: sure, so does the cabinet. We are working hard on tax evasion and tax avoidance. The last budget, which we sent to the Chamber in August, September, is full of it. Also the party programs of the parties in this cabinet, CDA, VVD, but also ChristianUnion and D66, are full of them. The second example, on balance of payments, is linked to the reforms. If these countries become more competitive and competitive, they will of course save the balance of payments. I am not ashamed of a surplus from the Netherlands on the balance of payments, but I can see with Van Ojik that it also shows that there is structural imbalance. If we had not helped with the aid funds last year, once and under the condition of reforms, it would have gone even farther. You would have had the risk of Europe eventually tearing apart. This is not in the Dutch interest, both because of our jobs and because of our security. Hence the willingness, in exchange for these reforms, to give that support. But once again, in many countries, we were asked whether we were European enough. Not that Van Ojik says that. But for me, European is not always saying yes because Germany and France are shouting something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u183	Let's talk about the conference. May 9th, the conference is already starting. I can actually hear the Prime Minister say it again: we need to involve citizens in this. I just haven't heard him say how. May 9th is pretty fast. Will we get back to the Chamber how we're gonna do this, how we're gonna facilitate this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u184	Yeah, in the second term, I'll get back to how. I don't really know, so I'm gonna check it out and come back to it in second term. I hope that officials will be listened to: a Q&A on how the Dutch citizen will be involved in the conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u185	I would like to come back to this. The Prime Minister says he didn't send it, because it's not a new position. It is true that we have talked about this several times. Rapporteurs have also been appointed in this Chamber, and it has even been declared a priority. I would like to ask the Prime Minister and through him, Foreign Affairs, to act in this way, so just to actively inform us about that conference on Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u186	Yes, of course. It was more about non-papers. Today, a non-paper has been published from me and the Spanish Prime Minister to seek a compromise in the European debate on strategic autonomy. I found it interesting that a Liberal Prime Minister from Northern Europe and a very left-wing Prime Minister from Spain, with a coalition more in the direction of Mrs Leijten, manage to agree together and thus find a compromise within Europe on the question of strategic autonomy. I thought that was sent to the Chamber, too. We'll try to be forward leading in sharing those kind of pieces. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to covid and the covid pass, on which of course all kinds of questions have been asked. All these proposals still have to be worked out. I agree with those who say: make sure that privacy is guaranteed. It is, of course, an initiative that Member States then use. What you're trying to achieve is standardisation, so you won't have 27 passes, but one system. We think it is very important that this system should also be open to people who have done PCR tests. It shouldn't be an indirect vaccination imperative. All the things reported by the Chamber sounded like music to me, to be honest. Maybe I can put it that way. Just a few more specific questions. How does that relate to the Health Union? The cabinet position was published on 22 January. It confirms that the proposals as they were at the time remain within the scope of the division of powers. That is something we are paying close attention to, while of course taking note of the compass of Mrs Leijten's motion for a resolution on that point. Then the joint procurement and distribution of vaccines. We're very happy about that. If we had to do that with 27 Member States, it would of course have become chaos, and we could never have done that alone. What you do see is that some manufacturers don't deliver what's agreed. This has an immediate impact on vaccination rates in countries, but this is not the result of the joint strategy. We're glad we're doing that together. I'll be joining COVAX and the donation schedule. The design of the Vaccine Sharing Mechanism has not yet been decided, nor has it been decided on the voluntary contribution requested by the European Member States. This may be linked to the roll-out within the European Union and the Member States. So we are not yet in a position to comment on a possible future contribution. But we strongly support this principle. AstraZeneca is not a subject of discussion at this European Council. Of course safety is of the utmost importance. It is therefore also very important to ensure the role and advice of the EEA in the right way. Are there not enough vaccination experts? Several experts are working at a furious pace to arrive at vaccines. We should be proud of that, because in ten months what would otherwise take ten years has been achieved. This also requires real expertise. With us, no signal is known about shortages of experts. But if specific bottlenecks arise, we will, of course, look at them. We double-checked it at VWS: there too, the problem of insufficient vaccine experts is not known. Then there is the situation with the United Kingdom. This requires a very nuanced response. Firstly, it is the Commission that can finally decide that exports cannot take place. Then, of course, the Netherlands will comply with a mission of the European Commission if we are the exporting country. But that is up to the Commission. That is not a bilateral between us and the United Kingdom. I made that clear to Johnson, too. I did say to my English colleague that we are generally concerned with the distribution of vaccines with the Commission. I said that we think it is important to win a win-win between England and the Commission. They're working hard on that, too. The point is that in England there is the possibility of putting the two shots, because there is now a great deal of concern about that. That's the risk, of course, if you stick everything away and keep zero stock. At some point it's 12 weeks later and then there's got to be that second shot. That's where they care. In Europe there is concern about whether there are enough vaccines in general and whether they are also fairly distributed between the European Union and, for example, the United Kingdom in this case. A discussion on how to deal with issues of export, international value chains and the whole logistics process will emerge. I very much agreed with the comments that Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, gave on Monday night after their meetings on the corona measures. We really need to be careful in Europe with too quick an intervention in those value chains, because ultimately it is not just stuff that goes from us to England. There are also raw materials going from England to Europe. Think of raw materials for the production of BioNTech/Pfizer in Belgium. That's what raw materials come from England for. So it's really a risk if you take it too hard. So it's very nuanced. When it comes specifically to the situation between Europe and the UK, it is a matter for the Commission. We share the Commission's concern, of course. We urge both of us, the Commission and the UK, to come up with a win-win solution. It's being negotiated very hard. I'm not hopeless about that. Two. In general terms, when it comes to value chains, I say: beware of too much interference. I understand, of course, that the European Union is asking at least for maximum transparency about who gets what and why if there is a risk of imbalance. We support that. At the same time, there must be a certain reluctance to intervene too quickly. That may seem attractive in the short term with vaccines for ourselves first, I understand all of this, but if that leads to the whole of vaccine production in a slightly longer period, then we will suffer very much from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u187	Did you answer all questions about COVID-19?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u188	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u189	Then I go to Mr Paternotte and then to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u190	I would like to return to a question that has not been answered. So I would prefer not to use interruption for that, Mr President. The question is whether the Prime Minister is going to do anything to prevent countries from saying again on their own "we stop pricking a vaccine because of a very rare side effect" and thus in fact the whole vaccination programme...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u191	We have done so for good reason. I heard that, and I thought that was amazing. The Medicines Review College has advised us to temporarily stop pricking. I would have liked to have heard Mr Paternotte here if we had said that we are ignoring that. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u192	Now really a question, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u193	It was about the fact that there were a number of countries that said before the EEA said anything about it: we are going to stop. If you get that every time you have rare side effects, the EEA cannot do its job with its own risk assessment. I hear the Prime Minister say that he is okay with that, but if it happens with every side effect that is gradually coming up, it could cause a lot of silence in Europe. After all, there can be very rare side effects. That's the way it is. That's what all the experts say. If there is always a lot of silence, then of course there is also a price. If you cannot vaccinate people for weeks, that means something for the backlog that we already have in Europe, including with regard to the United Kingdom, for example. It's gonna get bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u194	Safety first. The College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products has said: we have reason to advise the Dutch Government to press the pause button temporarily, because we want to investigate a number of things further. If we had then said 'the Dutch Government ignores that', a very large majority of the House would rightly have requested an urgent debate and said: you cannot pass the CBG. And rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u195	Again the question, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u196	Of course, hurry is important. The Prime Minister was just talking about the trade balance and the value chains, but this problem arose because there is a factory in Leiden where millions of AstraZeneca vaccines are produced that we read do not know where they are. The European Commission thinks they are still in Europe. They are produced here in Leiden, the Netherlands. Does the Prime Minister know how many vaccines are there and where they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u197	No. That factory is located in the Netherlands, but produces for AstraZeneca. That is why it is very good that the Commission has set in motion the transparency mechanism. I very much agree with that. I agree at all with the line the Commission has been pursuing so far. I'm just warning you about a risk. If the case gets so excited that we say "own vaccines first" and we completely stop exporting, it seems very popular in the short term because we are all done with the virus, but I only warn against the fact that the international value chains are closely linked. That's not without risk. But in itself, I think the transparency mechanism, which you want to know where what is, is very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u198	About AstraZeneca. I just want to try and help. The problem is not what is ultimately decided on the Dutch side. The problem is that Norway, partly motivated by its own traumas, also around sleeping sickness caused by previous vaccines, even before the EEA and other countries were informed themselves said: we stop. Then there is a domino effect, which can no longer be stopped. I get that. Our request is whether or not a margin of the European summit that is now in place can be discussed as to whether that domino effect can be prevented and one first informs one another and that the EEA has been informed so that a sensible strategy can be developed. We have now experienced unnecessary delays, which may reach four or maybe six weeks, and create a lot of uncertainty for people. That's all things we don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u199	Yes, I agree. To the question of how exactly to do that, I don't have the flawless answer right now. Unfortunately, this top is also via video, because of the virus. That does not lend itself to the more informal conversation. But I agree with that: of course you want to prevent uncertainty arising around such a brand, such a product.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u200	I think that's wise, because we don't know what else is coming at us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u201	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u202	If we are to move forward as Europe, let us do so. My second point concerns the experts. We hear that informally, but we will see if that signal can formally go your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u203	Yes, please. If necessary, informally. I'll pick it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u204	The request is to raise that and margin, no matter how complicated it is in these corona times. This will become a threat, not only for covid approval, but in particular for other medicines that are on the list for approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u205	Yes. So it can also be informal. It's welcome through all channels. We'll dive in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u206	I had also asked a question about the smiling third party in the fights about vaccines, namely big pharma. What lessons do we learn from that? We have put the purchase of vaccines in the hands of the European Commission. It has already had to apologize in the European Parliament for how that went wrong: too late and not transparent. Now there are so many vaccines in Europe that we might say we are not exporting. I'm not into this kind of trade war, but what does this say about the power of big pharma? Are we gonna talk about that, too? I asked the Prime Minister to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u207	I don't know if that's a big pharma problem, which also sounds so ominous. Let us be happy: Mrs Leijten and I increasingly agree on the advantages and disadvantages of market forces in health care, but I am very happy that we have developed that vaccine within ten months. I don't know how that would've happened if that had happened all the way from the state. So I am not opposed to pharmaceutical companies, but I do not believe that the fact that they are pharmaceutical companies leads specifically to this problem. BioNTech/Pfizer delivers exactly what it promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u208	This very profitable branch has received a billion-dollar grant for a top performance, but that is a shared achievement. They wouldn't have had it so fast without that huge subsidy policy. I am also glad that the vaccines are there, but the point is that big pharma countries do play out against each other. When a contract is concluded too late, Israel, the United Kingdom, Canada and the European Union are being played against each other. Then it's definitely about the highest price. The European Commission, which said that it would do this as a single purchasing power because you are so stronger, could not do that. If the Prime Minister does not want that now, I think it would be wise for that analysis to be carried out and called upon to do so. We're not hoping to get into another situation like this, but if we're in it, it shouldn't be like this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u209	Once again, with Mrs Leijten, I can see that, of course, there has been a lot of public money in the form of research. That's right. Look at the University of Oxford and other researchers, also in the Netherlands. That is certainly true, but in ten months' time the development of this type of vaccine, which you would otherwise take on average ten years, was also possible by using the enormous power of those very large companies, which are able to scale it up very quickly, bring it to production and get it accepted. Just in that mix, you're gonna have to find it. BioNTech/Pfizer simply delivers what it promises. Sometimes there are production problems there, but that is of course always a risk, with each product and certainly with a complex product like a vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u210	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u211	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to another point that is also on the agenda of this summit, namely digital. Several questions have been asked about this. Of course, the Netherlands also wants these digitals arranged. We still think it is nice to try to do so worldwide for as long as possible, because these very large firms make their sales to an important extent throughout the world but are based in the United States. We believe that there are new opportunities there with the new American administration but also with the new leadership within the OECD, but if it does not succeed, you will of course have to choose a European solution. But I really wouldn't want to conclude right now that it has to be European, because then you're really less effective. The entire Digital Compass has yet to be worked out. I agree with most of the comments or, in fact, with all the comments that have been made about this, including the risks mentioned by Mrs Leijten in the digital field with regard to... Come, what professional term did she use? What's it called again? She had a beautiful term for that. I'll be right there. Perhaps I could say briefly that I agreed with her argument. The algorithms, the algorithms; that's where we're looking. But again, it still has to be worked out. If there is, there'll be a BNC chip. I also agree with Mr Bosman and others that it is important that the human dimension should be at the heart of fundamental rights, the rule of law, security, privacy and freedom of expression. We continue to emphasise this human-oriented approach, but again, the proposal is not yet there. The Digital Compass is there, but the whole process needs to be further developed. We will also discuss this in detail with the Chamber in a BNC sheet, but that will be done along these lines. So I think we are very much in agreement, from SP to VVD and perhaps even PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u212	Were those the answers about digital?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u213	Yeah, about digital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u214	I don't know what I'm going through with how many times the Prime Minister agrees with me today, but that doesn't upset me. I would have asked another question, of course. The draft conclusions state in point 6 (b) that rapid legislation is required. My request was that this Prime Minister should say that in the Netherlands we have been rather hard hitting our noses on the issue of faith in digitalisation and on the issue of loss of human size. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u215	Well, not in that shape. I'm willing to... I don't know if it's on this occasion, but we will, of course, bring the different themes that have been put forward, including the risks of algorithms, how they can be used and our lessons from the terrible childcare allowance affair, into all kinds of places. But I'm not going to argue for slow legislation. It is an important issue, but speedy legislation is not yet careless legislation and we will weigh it very precisely along the lines that have been discussed here. That BNC chip will go to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u216	Well, then I'm gonna ask you another way. The Prime Minister doesn't want to bring it in himself. Yeah, I get that, too. It is, of course, a scratch, but we are not waiting for policy preparation here.Of course, the Netherlands also plays a role in this, in which the lessons we have just learned do not sound in a very hard way. The distance between The Hague and Brussels is not that great, but sometimes it is, especially when it comes to policy. How is the Prime Minister going to ensure that this is considered in this way in the preparation of these rapid laws? Otherwise this will be confessed again, but we will soon be at the end of the day at the point of privacy, human size and you name it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u217	No, that's not gonna happen at all. Only at such a European Council you will have a few minutes of intervention. I don't think anyone's gonna take it if you're gonna use the word algorithms there tomorrow. So I think you should bring in the different elements that we think are important in the places where that is relevant. We will. I have identified all those things that I have heard in the contributions of Mr Bosman, Mrs Leijten and many others. Mrs Kuik has also said a lot about it. Everyone's kind of talked about it. Those comments are all noted. I agree with those points. We'll put that in the law-preparation in all the places where that's relevant. Then we will also look carefully at whether this is going to happen. We take this into account in our assessment of the Commission's proposals in the fact sheet that goes to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u218	Actually, I'd be thinking about your interruptions. We just made an appointment, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u219	Mr President, there are draft conclusions that the Netherlands has already slapped. I just miss it. I think it's weird. We live in two different worlds. There are two major reports from a parliamentary interrogation and from a parliamentary committee of inquiry here in this Parliament, including on that human dimension. And then you read the secret design conclusions and then it's: yeah, put the highway on; hepiedeppie, go share everything. How? Shouldn't it have been in those draft conclusions? That is why I ask the Prime Minister: can he ensure that it is absolutely not going to be a rearguard fight when it comes to these elements, but that they are going to be ahead of speed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u220	Yeah, I already promised. But the draft conclusions are not a bill. This is no more than welcoming the Commission along the lines of the digital compass, working further on proposals related to the legislation that is already in force. As far as I am concerned, this is what Mrs Leijten and others have said. I think we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u221	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u222	Then I'll come to Turkey. That's a two-faced thing. Firstly, I very much agree with the great concerns expressed by the Chamber about human rights and the fact that Turkey has withdrawn from the Istanbul Convention. I think it's a very bad step. That was also appointed by Stef Blok. I repeat that here in this debate. But I also mention the other elements of human rights violations that we see in Turkey. At the same time, we are very careful to see some positive developments, particularly in terms of the withdrawal of ships, the relaunch of the dialogue with Greece, the planned talks on Cyprus and also the rhetoric towards Europe. But I very much agree with everyone who says that human rights are not doing well there and that this should be part of our dialogue with Turkey. So you cannot say as Europe: oh, things are going well with Cyprus and Greece; or better, there is less negative rhetoric and so we no longer need to talk about human rights. There were a few specific questions. A question was: what does the Netherlands do for persecuted parliamentarians? Of course, this is what we are referring to in the general sense, bilaterally and multilaterally, in the context of human rights. I also mention the Karabulut motion. On this basis, the Netherlands has expressed both behind the scenes and openly its concerns about the pressure on elected representatives. We have joined the statement of the High Representative Borrell, but also the relevant Commissioner. And we also brought it up in the Foreign Affairs Council this week. It has also been raised in the framework of the UN Human Rights Council. Moreover, the Netherlands is closely following the case against former HDP leader Demirtas, also in the context of the Council of Europe. On 16 March, the embassy attended the most recent court hearing on this issue. I have already said something about Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention. In addition, I would like to point out that the EU High Representative, as well as the Council of Europe's sg, voted against this step and called on Turkey to reverse the decision. We will continue to do so in the direction of Turkey. Then it's about arms exports. It's already very restrictive. That is also, in line with the Voordewind motion, advocated at EU level. The Foreign Affairs Council of 19 November last year called for a moratorium on the supply of arms to Turkey. There was not enough support for this in the Council, but it has been brought about. We will continue to do the same. Then there is Mr Van Dijck's question about the report against Geert Wilders. You know what we've done about it. We think that this report is completely insane. We have also highlighted this in all places. The Dutch ambassador has raised the issue several times with Turkey. In our contacts with Turkey, we will continue to repeat the message that this declaration is unacceptable and point to the freedom of expression of parliamentarians. Of course, a report doesn't mean a prosecution. We do not currently have any information to show what the Turkish judicial authorities have done with the declaration. As soon as we know more about this, we will of course follow it up again. That, Mr President, is about Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u223	Mrs Kuik, Mrs Kuik and then Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u224	Taking human rights very seriously is difficult for me to reconcile with the sound I hear now, namely that the customs union is simply being extended. Can the Prime Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u225	Yes. In the context of the cautious positive developments in the direct bilateral relationship between Turkey and Europe, I mentioned Greece and Cyprus and the moderation of the negative rhetoric towards Europe is being looked at at small incremental steps on that positive track. Then you talk about rebooting the highlevel dialogs and talking about modernising the customs union. Those are conversations. This is happening in the context of the outcome of the October European Council. We then said in the context of pressure and dialogue: we do not rule out the need for sanctions, but Turkey will have to take a number of steps on Greece and Cyprus. That's the one who set it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u226	They are not just talks about enlargement of the customs union. We hear that Germany is now over and that this enlargement is actually going to happen. But, yes, is what is being communicated about the violation of human rights, namely that it cannot be without consequences, then no nose wash?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u227	Well, Germany doesn't decide on the customs union on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u228	It's almost your last question, Mrs. Chicken. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u229	I wanted to answer it in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u230	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u231	I didn't mean to cause irritation. The point is that we really need to look at this nuancedly. I think that human rights in Turkey is a very serious problem. We could now decide that we consider this problem to be so serious that the Netherlands no longer wants Europe to seek dialogue with Turkey on matters such as Greece, Cyprus and all the other things. I would like to outline it extremely; it is not that Mrs Kuik says that, but that could be an extreme position. I wouldn't think that was wise. We are in NATO together. Turkey is a country that can exert great influence on that whole part of the world. If we say that because of human rights the Netherlands is completely breaking ties with Turkey or if we advocate it in Europe, the result would be that we are no longer in contact with Turkey. I don't think that's wise. I think we should do what we do in Turkey: pressure and dialogue. We must continue to put pressure on human rights very firmly. I'll do that myself. I'm terribly angry about leaving the Istanbul Convention. I fully agree with what everyone here has said about the position of women in Turkey. It's very worrying. But again, if you were to say for that reason that you completely renounce contacts for a moment in the extreme, I would think that would be unwise. The European Council and the European Union have said before: we are looking at relations with Greece and Cyprus, also in relation to wishes that live on the Turkish side, for example on the customs union. It has not yet been decided to do anything in this area. It's about talking about the modernisation. We will follow this very closely. Of course, we will always look at this in the context of human rights. That's inevitable. But the argument I am making on this subject remains nuanced, because I would also like us to keep the contacts with Turkey open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u232	I'm miss nuance and we always talk. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that there is no such thing as an extension of the customs union?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u233	I don't know about that, but if you ask me so excitingly, I'm gonna double-check it. I'm gonna double-check it. I will come back to that, but it is not known to me now. So I'm gonna ask the official to check the answer to Mrs. Kuik's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u234	That's what you'll get back to in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u235	I'll get back to you on that. Maybe I'll get it on a note in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u236	Your last question, Mrs. Chicken. You don't have to. Finishing? Second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u237	Yeah, finishing up, 'cause I think I've run out of questions. I find it difficult to sell if there is an agreement on the enlargement of the customs union, while Turkey has just withdrawn from the Istanbul Convention. Talking is good and bilateral contacts are always there, but it does feel very bad as if you are not having the courage or the courage to impose sanctions at all. And there's my real concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u238	Of course, they want a lot more of us. They also want visa liberalisation. They want a lot of other things. That's the weighting. I get what Mrs. Chicken says. I also agree with her that you should be very careful about that. But it is not the case that the customs union for Turkey is at the top of the agenda. For them visa liberalisation is, of course, at the top of the agenda. But I get the point. I'm gonna find out if any further steps have been taken. I'm not familiar with that. I think it's all about conversations now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u239	I'd like to get on with this. We're all crying out here: shame! We are outraged that Turkey has entered out of the Istanbul Convention. The question now is what we can do more about it than just call for shame. What does it do with the Dutch-Turkish women here and their role when it comes to emancipation? I'm struggling with that. What can we actually do? Can the government, for example, call upon the Istanbul Convention to be signed in the European Council and other countries? What sanctions can we use? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u240	In itself, the sg of the Council of Europe and many EU Member States have actively expressed their deep regret at this step. Turkey has been urged to reverse that step. So I do not think that the European Council's agenda is going to produce much more. I share Mrs Kuik's frustration, of course. I think it is a very serious fact. I would like to continue to look at the issues that lie directly between Turkey, Greece, Cyprus and Europe. There are some positive developments. In return, we have said earlier: if there are, we want to look again at those customs agreements, for example. We must, of course, continue to put this in the colour bath of: how is human rights and issues of this kind going? I would just like to continue looking for this balance, because the relationship and dialogue with Turkey remain important for many reasons. I share the frustration. I don't have the golden bullet here to get them back in the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u241	I get that balance. But it is true that it must not be left alone in our indignation. This must take place somewhere in the process of negotiation but also in discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u242	It plays a role. In any case, the issue of human rights is always a matter for the Netherlands. I cannot say that the whole of Europe is overwhelmed with emphasising human rights in Turkey. The Netherlands consistently does so, especially after these developments. So we will continue to do so in Europe. But once again, it is not the case that all the European Member States always look at this relationship in the context of human rights. We'll do it. Only we don't get through to: then no more contact. But I don't think anyone here would argue that. So we will continue to look here for the balance between this pressure and the dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u243	Then, in relation to Turkey, we also have the implementation of the EU-Turkey declaration, the deal. Perhaps not the least of the issues on the agenda of the European Summit. My impression is that it is no longer working very well, in the sense that Turkey is taking over refugees from Greece and that as a result the EU is taking over refugees from Turkey. Is that an impression? What is to be discussed in the coming days, in relation to the EU and Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u244	I believe that the problem lies here and not with Turkey. In my opinion, Turkey is keeping to these agreements very well. They're making a huge effort. About four million Syrian refugees have been received in Turkey. They are now catching the largest refugee population in the world. We know that about half of Syria's population, 11 million out of 22 million, no longer lives in its own home. A large proportion of them live outside Syria, of which four million live in Turkey. I think it is very important that we continue to support Turkey in this. This will also mean future financing towards Turkey. That's what I'll be there for. I don't think you can ask for this shelter in the region of the Turks without funding. I think it's in our best interest, too. Think of the minus 90% from the election campaign, which I have appointed a few times in the direction of Geert Wilders. The problem is, of course, that sending people back to Greece is very slow on the Greek side. So that part of the agreement is not being properly implemented is really more a European problem than a Turkish problem. We have not noticed so far that the Turks refuse to take back Syrians who would have been deported, but on the Greek side it is very difficult. So I think we should continue the resettlement efforts and therefore also send back people who have crossed irregularly, because that is the only way to stop those trips structurally on those dangerous boats. It is already much less because people know that they will end up on a Greek island and not in Europe, Berlin or Amsterdam. But of course that was not the intention of the agreement. They were meant to be returned as well. To get one Syrian out of a Turkish camp and into Europe would work in a one-on-one system, because the one who crossed knew: I'm going back. That's not working properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u245	Mr. Van Ojik, I see you thinking. You're almost done with your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u246	It's not that bad. I've got another one after this. I'm keeping up very well. The Prime Minister tells us how the deal was supposed to be. Of course, he knows what's best for everyone. My question is, does it still work that way? In other words, it's still the case that people... my information is that it's completely still at the moment, but I may have wrong information. I have information that there are no people who have gone through a procedure in Greece and go back to Turkey, and that it is not at all the case that we are taking over people from Turkey at the moment. So the question is: does this explanation, whatever else you could think of, in practice still lead to the intended solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u247	In a cynical way. Syrians know that they can't get any further than the Greek islands. That's why the flow of refugees dried up. But the intention was, of course, to send everyone who crossed back, and then to bring someone from a Turkish refugee camp to Europe. The expectation was that you would have to do that 50,000 to 60,000 times and that the entire power would stop, because everyone who boards a boat knows: "I'm going back. Another Syrian is being brought to Europe, but I do not know him. So if I'm not allowed to stay, why would I take the risk?" That was the idea, but in practice, of course, it has resulted in you not getting any further than the island. As a result, the flow of refugees stopped after the western Balkans and the border between Greece and Macedonia first closed. That's what happened then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u248	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u249	This has been more a problem for Europe than for Turkey. I must honestly say that, so far, on average, as far as the refugee deal is concerned, they have complied with the agreements. Mr. Chairman. Then the Brexit. The British Government has, as you know, unilaterally extended the coulance period. This did not happen in consultation with Europe and it did not go through the Joint Committee. In doing so, the United Kingdom is violating the withdrawal agreement, but also the protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland. They signed it, so that's worrying. That undermines protocol and trust. The full implementation of that protocol remains of the utmost importance. That is why the Netherlands and other Member States support the European Commission's legal action against the United Kingdom. We will also, of course, continue to talk on two sides, through the two sides of the Joint Committee, in order to find workable solutions. The Partnership Council does not play a role in this, as it was established under the Trade and Cooperation Agreement and not under the withdrawal agreement, which is part of the Protocol. But I very much agree with Mrs Kuik that this is a very worrying development. Negotiations are under way between Europe and the United Kingdom on the final fishing opportunities in 2021. An agreement was reached in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on the extension of the temporary fishing opportunities for 2021. This means that, at least until mid-year, or until 31 July, the fishermen must be able to continue fishing while the negotiations continue. It seems that these talks are now going to be more positive than they were at the time. There is therefore the expectation, or at least the commitment, to come out together. That seems to be a joint effort now too. Then I'll come to China. I also said this week that we find the sanctions against Sjoerd Sjoerdsma unacceptable. This also applies to the other sanctions imposed by the Chinese. It is not on the agenda for tomorrow, by the way. So this is at least outside tomorrow's European Council and perhaps the day after tomorrow. Nevertheless, what does work here is the new human rights sanctions regime. Of course, the Netherlands played a major role in this. We're proud of that. On Monday, for that reason, the EU imposed sanctions on Chinese and one entity involved in human rights violations. The listings are aimed at achieving behavioural change and discouraging new human rights violations. Of course, the people or the organisation involved can appeal against this. It's part of the rule of law. The good thing is that the US, the United Kingdom and Canada have taken similar measures. Of course, in our dialogue from the Netherlands, but also through the European Union, we will continue to draw attention to the serious concerns about human rights violations. Then, of course, there was the specific question about Xinjiang and the extremely worrying signals about it. On this issue, too, we will, of course, continue to insist on the immediate cessation of human rights violations, both bilaterally and at EU level, especially when it comes to Xinjiang. We want full access to the region, including for the United Nations High Representative. Then, of course, there is the issue of genocide. You know that the Chamber has given its opinion on this matter. As far as the cabinet is concerned, we're studying that. There are a few things that lead us: judgments from international courts and criminal courts, unambiguous conclusions from scientific research, and a UN finding. At the moment, this qualification is not at issue in the cabinet. There is convincing and growing evidence of large-scale human rights violations in Xinjiang, including evidence in the report of the Newlines Institute for Strategy and Policy. Then, of course, the investment agreement is in line. I think we should not get ahead of ourselves. When the final text is available, we will, of course, take stock of the various parts and the context and come to an opinion. We will then inform the Chamber about this before we determine the definitive Dutch position on that investment agreement. That is not the case at the moment. So there is no position at the moment. This also applies to the other Member States. The draft text is currently under legal clearance and translation. A Council decision will then be requested. Then you're really talking about the end of the year, beginning next year. So it is not happening at the moment, but we are of course following that critically. Then Nord Stream 2. That's what Follow the Money had news about. As also explained in the Russia letter 2019, Dutch Russia policy consists of pressure and dialogue. We will strongly appeal to Russia if international standards are violated, but we also have functional cooperation and dialogue with Russia where necessary. The energy relationship is an example of this. This is also stated in the letter of the Chamber on strategic dependencies in the energy domain, which went to the Chamber. The Russian letter also clearly states that the Netherlands will benefit from a dialogue with Russia on economic cooperation. This is the case in several working groups at official level, and also at ministerial level in the Joint Economic Committee. Since 2013, the Netherlands has not resumed these GECs as one of the few countries at ministerial level. So these are all official contacts now. The Energy Working Group discussed various energy projects in different areas between the participants present. Nord Stream 2 has also been mentioned. There was an exchange of views. No agreements were made by the Dutch government on Nord Stream 2. The Dutch government is not involved in the project either. It hasn't been discussed with the Kremlin either. Nor is it customary for us to actively inform the Chamber about official meetings. Following the meeting of the Energy Working Group in February 2020, the Moscow Embassy did report on this issue on social media. So that wasn't a secret discussion at all, as Follow the Money claims; there's just an open message about it. But the Chamber is not generally informed about these kinds of official meetings. Let me finish with the point about Russia. A question has been asked about Lavrov, who says that Russia no longer has a relationship with the European Union. What does that mean? We have taken note of these statements, I say to Mr Voordewind, and if Russia violates international standards or violates our interests, we will continue to address them if sanctions are needed. We also remain open to dialogue. Through the Human Rights Fund, the Netherlands supports human rights and civil society in Russia. We think that's important. We really need to realize that Russia is more than the Kremlin. We must continue to actively reach and support the people, including the European Union, in the areas of human rights, the functioning of civil society and people-to-people contacts. Back to Nord Stream 2 and Ukraine. Mr Van Ojik had a question on this. We will continue to work at EU level for the transit of Russian gas through Ukraine, even after 2024, as the current transit agreement for gas supplies via Ukraine will expire. I think it is positive that a new agreement was reached in December 2019 until 2024. We also want to promote the timely clarification of the extension of these transit arrangements. That remains on the European agenda as far as we are concerned. That's it about Russia, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u250	At this point, Mr. Van Ojik? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u251	Yeah, at this point. At least, not on Ukraine, because I can only welcome what the Prime Minister says about it, but just a little bit more about the character of Nord Stream. We have, of course, often discussed this, particularly within the framework of the Gas Directive. The cabinet has always said: that is a commercial project, so we as the Dutch government do not like it; it is a commercial project. Now it appears that Nord Stream is high on the agenda every year, which is also logical, I think, and that the Netherlands is represented at the highest level, not at the political level, but at the highest possible level of government. Then the first question is: how does the Prime Minister rhyme with purely commercial and Dutch political interference? Secondly, is the Prime Minister prepared to give insight into what has been discussed in that working group and what conclusions it has led to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u252	On this point: there is no agreement here; it is a question of exchanging views. The Energy Working Group simply talks about various energy projects, where this is indeed a commercial project. So there are no agreements on this. I checked that explicitly during the pause of the debate. I asked if we are sure, because Follow the Money gives the impression that agreements are being made. But that is not the case, I am once again assured. The Dutch government is also not involved in the project. It hasn't been discussed with the Kremlin either. I'll ask if... so we never made it a secret to talk to Russia about the energy relationship. This has been described in detail in various chambers. It also fits into Dutch policy. Again, it is not customary to actively inform the Chamber about official meetings, but I will check whether there is any objection to sharing the report of such a meeting with the Chamber. I can check that out, and maybe it's being heard by the officials now. Let me update the administration: report on official consultation. I'm gonna check it out. Then I have a few more questions about, in a leftover group. The first point has already been discussed: the importance of QMV, qualified majority voting, sanctions and human rights declarations within the Common Foreign and Security Policy. So I would like to refer to that part of the debate on Mrs Kuik's question. Actually, I've already taken it at implication. That doesn't apply to her question about the Recovery Fund. We have said that this is up to the next cabinet. Public work is under way to see which reform investments could be included in the draft plan. The intention is that it should play a role as soon as possible, including in the formation of the new cabinet, and of course that it should also be shared with the House of Representatives. Then rule of law and Poland. This is a big concern. That is why it is also right to say to Mr Paternotte that there are now two infringement cases against Poland from the Commission. They concern the disciplinary regime for judges and the so-called muzzle law. The Regulation on the Specific Rule of Law Instrument within the Multiennial Financial Framework, within the Multiannual Financial Framework, has been formally in force since 1 January. We are very pleased that it has succeeded. It wasn't perfect, but it was a big step forward. I believe that as a Chamber we have said: well, then we must do so; it is really a step in the right direction. That is also what the European Parliament has said. But of course it's not quite perfect. The fact is that on 11 March Poland and Hungary brought an action for annulment against the regulation before the Court of Justice. This means that the guidelines that the Commission is currently working on will not be finalised until that decision has been made. This means that no measures under the regulation will be proposed until then. Moreover, we are acting with other Member States in this matter and we are intervening on the side of the Council and the European Parliament. What is very important is that the Commission should continue its investigative work under that regulation, also with the entry into force of 1 January. We also negotiated this in December and we discussed it with the Chamber. These findings may then be involved by the Commission in the measures proposed by the Commission following the adoption of the guidelines and the decision of the European Court of Justice. In other words, the flash pole is there, but the fines come later. If you don't mind my saying so plasticly. Then about the green deal. I say to Mr Bishop that the European Council took decisions on this in 2020. This was about raising the greenhouse gas reduction target to 55% by 2030. That was also advocated by this cabinet and widely supported in the Chamber. The Commission will now come forward with proposals for legislation to implement the green deal. These will, of course, be accompanied by impact assessments. We also attach great importance to this. That's what we're wearing. We expect the first proposals in June. The next item is the implementation of the motion for a resolution on the Association Council with Israel. We are very much in favour of a resumption of that Association Council with Israel, I say to Mr Bishop. We have also advocated this at EU level. It is important that the European Union speaks with Israel at a structural and high level, both on issues that bind us and on issues that we do not agree on. Think of the settlement politics. The Association Council is a good forum for this. Discussions are taking place within the European Union on how and under what conditions that Council can meet again. There is no agreement yet. We are trying to steer this debate in the right direction in order to bring closer to the holding of an Association Council. Finally, Mrs Kuik and Mr Bishop spoke about public finances. I want to say that I share the concerns about rising debts. This also applies to the concerns about the deficits resulting from the pandemic. We are closely monitoring the development of public finances in different Member States. This is also the subject of the discussions held by the Minister of Finance in the Eurogroup and Ecofin. At the moment, it is important that Member States implement growth-enhancing reforms and invest in such a way that they contribute to sustainable recovery. In itself, we agree that the budgetary rules have been temporarily repealed as long as the crisis is not over. They must therefore be brought back into force as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I have tried to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u253	Yes. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u254	I'll come back to Poland. The Prime Minister is quite right to mention the infringement procedures. We can only see, of course, that Poland has been going on for the last few months. A judge is being dismissed and there is something going on with a writer criticizing him, who at least gives a certain description of the President of Poland. They're looking into putting them in prison for three years. That is why the question of using this rule of law mechanism now. You can see that this call is also being made from the European Parliament. Because yes, directives have been made from the Council. Yeah, there's that extermination procedure. But it doesn't make it impossible, of course, for you to simply use that instrument that we have since 1 January. So that's why my question: is the Prime Minister actually saying that it can't be done? Or does he not think it is desirable at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u255	I would, of course, like it to be fully operational immediately, but I understand that it works as follows. On 11 March Poland brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union for annulment of the regulation. This means that the Commission is not now proposing measures under the regulation, but it is doing all the research as if it were there. It's just gonna take place from January 1st. This means that if that court ruling is there and those guidelines have been adopted, then, with retroactive effect, it will be possible to punish Poland for matters that are currently taking place. Only they can't impose punishment yet. So they do flash the car that drives too fast, but they can't send the fine now. They will do so as soon as the case is lost by Poland, as we hope, on that issue where they are trying to annul it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u256	At least I conclude that I hear from the Prime Minister that if you can turn on the flash pole, you must have it on right away. I believe that this is also the call from the European Parliament. But I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u257	What the Commission is doing at the moment, as I have been informed, is continuing the investigative work since 1 January. So that just goes on. This can therefore also be involved in the measures which they later impose, after the court has given a ruling. At first, at the December European Council, my concern was that such a case for annulment would also lead to the cessation of the investigation. I was glad to hear in that European Council that it works legally that it does not, but that it continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u258	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I can see Mr Van Ojik standing by. I call Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u259	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Prime Minister. As for the character of Nord Stream, I do not think we will agree anymore in the limited time that has been given to me and perhaps to him. You never know. The geopolitical impact of Nord Stream is of course enormous. So whether you call it a commercial project or not, that's obvious. "Gazprom is the Russian government," says former Duma member Ponomarev. He had to flee from Russia because he was the only one voting against the annexation of Crimea, an ex-colleague of ours. "Gazprom is the Russian government. It's Mr. Putin's personal wallet." End of quote. Mr. Chairman. I am a bit in dubio on the point of the economic working group, because the Prime Minister has said that he will ask if he can send the reports to the Chamber. Together with a number of colleagues, I think it is essential that this happens. So, in anticipation of his reply, I shall be submitting the next motion for a resolution, just to be sure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the completion of Nord Stream 2 further strengthens Russia's geopolitical position;]] [[Whereas further pressure has been put on the completion of Nord Stream 2 by the threat of increased US sanctions;]] [[whereas, so far, the Nord Stream 2 cabinet has always regarded it as a purely commercial project;]] [[Whereas information on the high-level official discussions in the Energy Working Party has never been shared with the Chamber;]] [[considers that this does not reflect the desired information position of the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to provide insight into the results of bilateral discussions with Russia in the Energy Working Group, and to inform the Chamber about the engagement of the Cabinet in the forthcoming meetings of the Energy Working Group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Paternotte, Mr Kuiken, Mr Voordewind and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1649]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you will allow me, I would like to thank you very much for all these years that I have been allowed to speak and have had the opportunity to debate under your guidance. I liked that very much. I thought it was an honor and a privilege to be here all these years. That's only very nice to remember in the coming years when I'm going to enjoy my retirement. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u261	Thank you, Mr Van Ojik, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u262	You say goodbye here, but I see you around a lot. Mr Van Ojik lives in the same neighborhood as I do, so for now you're not rid of me! Mrs Kuik has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u263	Mr. Chairman. Such a first debate after the elections, which is also the last debate, is always a bit of a crazy combination. Maybe we're a little murmuring, too. Maybe at least I'm a little tired. In the light of the farewell of all these colleagues, we are also a little melancholy. Thank you very much, too, from the Labour Party. We still do goodbye in a normal way and one day I hope to be able to do so with a pina colada, a wine or a Coke. Now I'm gonna be serious again. This joke was for Mr Bosman. He gets it, and if you want an explanation, it'll come later. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers. Thank you also for the commitments he made around covid. It is indeed a good idea to discuss EEA and vaccines with colleagues on how we can work together at European level, for example in the case of AstraZeneca. Then there is the question of human rights. All my colleagues have spoken about this. China, Russia, Poland, Turkey. Human rights are essential. There will always be dialogue. You should not close the shutters, but you should not allow the divine passage to go to the right or to the left. That is why I would really reject the idea that we should now authorise an extension of the customs union, while the Istanbul Convention has just been denounced. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to deal with this in the second term and to say that this is not going to happen at the moment. Then I have a motion on the human rights situation in Turkey. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey is leaving the Istanbul Convention for the Protection of Women's Rights;]] [[Whereas the human rights situation in Turkey has been deteriorating for years;]] [[calls on the Minister, even if he is outgoing, to ensure that the European Council condemns the deterioration of the human rights situation in Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1650]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u264	The motion was first co-signed by Mrs Leijten, but Mr Voordewind and Mr Ojik also wanted to sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u265	From Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u266	From Ojik. Sorry, last mistake. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply. The VVD Group remains concerned. This concerns the digitisation, the momentum and the safeguards associated with it. As a VVD, we attach importance to these guarantees, precisely because of the lessons from the past, which you have to translate into the future. There will be a motion from Mr Leijten shortly. That's my name on it, because I think it's an important point. I hope that there will be a broad majority in the Chamber for that. Finally, thank you. I've been standing here for almost 11 years as MP for the VVD. Pride, and a great deal of honor. It's important work that I'm happy to look back on. Sometimes with disappointment, because sometimes it could have been better. But sometimes with a lot of pleasure. Mr Kuik said: pina colada. Then I say, "Pina colada boys." Then she'll remember what it's about. Those are the jokes within the Kingdom that we must be able to make and continue to make. In doing so, we are connected to each other and we are having the conversation, not just within the Kingdom. For those who do not fully know the Kingdom: it is also Aruba, Curaçao, Saint Martin, Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius. But also within Europe, within the world, within the UN and within NATO. The discussion must take place, and Members of Parliament, parliamentarians and representatives of the people are essential in this. So thank you for letting me stand here. Thanks to the party. Thank you to colleagues and thanks to the Chamber, which was always ready to support us. A warm bath, by name. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u269	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. Many thanks for your contributions and for working with everyone. There will be a special farewell, but it is nice to see the last debate. Then I give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u270	Mr President, thank you. Three points and three motions. First of all, on the rule of law, because the European Commission has indeed indicated its desire to await the judgement of the European Court, which may take years. That is one of the reasons why I believe that a resolution from the European Parliament will be put to the vote tomorrow, which, in fact, challenges the European Commission to the fact that it is not acting according to the law, since the rule of law mechanism has been in operation since 1 January. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Polish court denied a judge access to his work, even though his suspension had been declared invalid;]] [[noting that the European Commission has not so far made use of the rule of law mechanism;]] [[considers that the European Commission fails to enforce previous Court decisions and that the Article 7 procedure has not yet been successful;]] [[Calls on the Government to address the European Commission on its responsibility and to ask the Court to bring into force the rule of law mechanism and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible but before 1 May 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1651]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u271	Before I read my second motion, I say very transparently and honestly that I stayed as close as possible to page 16 of the VVD election programme. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[Considering that the conclusions of the European Council of 17 to 21 July agreed that in the first half of 2021 the European Commission would present a proposal for a charging for digital services and that a positive stance of the Dutch cabinet could contribute to the quality and feasibility of this proposal;]] [[Considering that tech-scrapers such as Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon often do not pay enough tax within the EU;]] [[calls on the cabinet to promote a digital service tax at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Kuik, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Öztürk and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1652]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u272	There is no greater compliment for a VVD election programme than Mr Paternotte quotes from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u273	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u274	I have nothing to add to that. The only hope I have left is that Mr Bosman will be able to put his hand in the air there as well. I am going to miss Mr Bosman for many reasons. Mrs Kuik mentioned a few, but this could be a beautiful swan song.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u275	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u276	Finally. We would also like this positive attitude to be taken on the European health card, as the Prime Minister has also expressed a number of assurances and doubts about this. We really think it is important to speed up this process and to radiate it as well. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Council will finally consider the proposal for covid status certificates at the end of March;]] [[noting that free travel is one of the fundamental freedoms of the European Union;]] [[Whereas a covid status certificate should contain adequate safeguards in the field of privacy, such as the decentralised storage of personal data;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to express its support for those status certificates, which can also be used to facilitate travel within the EU, and to work in the Council to ensure the rapid realization of those status certificates guaranteeing privacy and ensuring the free movement of persons within the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1653]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u277	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I should like to make one further point. I could have done that in the event of interruption, but I was chewing on that for a while. It is a question of the relationship between the right of veto and the qualified majority. I had the impression that the Prime Minister meant to say that when it comes to human rights violations, the Netherlands might be prepared to give up the right of veto and take a decision by qualified majority. I would have liked to have explained this a little more in detail, because then we will change our minds and then the question is whether this is what we are going to do. Please give me an explanation. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Council will discuss, inter alia, proposals for a "Health Union" and co-vid status certificates;]] [[whereas the EU, in accordance with the principles of conferral, subsidiarity and proportionality (Article 5 of the Treaty):]] [[must act within the limits of the powers conferred;]] [[on non-exclusive powers only if the objectives cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States themselves;]] [[does not go beyond what is necessary in terms of content and form;]] [[Whereas it is unclear what the legal basis, efficiency or need for co-vid status certificates is, nor why the objectives pursued by them can be better achieved by the Union;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with the principles set out in the Treaties, to be extremely reluctant to propose a Health Union, including an "green certificate," and to appoint these critical notes during the Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1654]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u278	Then I would like to take advantage of the last few seconds of my speaking time to thank colleagues for the extremely pleasant way in which we, as a committee, have always been able to have the debate together. At the departure of a number of dear colleagues behind my hand, I will make a small tear, because I will miss you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u279	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u280	Thank you, Mr President, and also thank the Prime Minister for his reply. The Prime Minister will return in the second term to how we will involve the citizens in the conference. I also have a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the situation of the Uighurs is an appeal to our collective awareness of European history;]] [[Considering that a large group of scientists of different nationalities and this Chamber have established that China is in breach of the 1948 Paris Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the EU urgently invites the UN to investigate any conflict with the 1948 UN Genocide Convention in relation to the treatment of Uighurs;]] [[calls on the government to press for an urgent appeal from all EU leaders to release the Uighurs from the Chinese camps in Xinjiang,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1655]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u281	And finally, thank you all for your cooperation. I have experienced fewer debates with one than with the other. I've seen Joel a lot. I'm gonna miss you all. You guys take care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. "Joel" is Joel Voordewind. To Mrs. Kuik, he's just Joel. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's one of the last hours we've been here in the Chamber, at least for some of us. I would nevertheless like to use it to put forward two motions, as I am used to, to see if we can make the world a little more beautiful and leave it behind. The first motion concerns the EU-China investment agreement, of which the Prime Minister says: we still have to read it in detail. I understand that there is a draft text. In the run-up to that decision, I would like to give him the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that China already undertook to ratify ILO Conventions on accession to the World Trade Organisation in 2001;]] [[noting that China has not yet ratified four fundamental ILO conventions on freedom of organisation in trade unions and collective bargaining on working conditions and forced labour;]] [[noting that a political agreement was reached on the Investment Treaty without the Member States, including the Netherlands, having seen the full text of the agreement;]] [[noting that the EU has now imposed personal sanctions against those responsible for the exploitation and repression of the Uighurs in China;]] [[calls on the Government to agree to an EU-China Investment Treaty only if it is required that the four missing ILO Conventions are ratified and implemented and reported periodically before the entry into force of the Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Kuik, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Leijten and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1656]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u284	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion on covid and that certificate that needs to be presented. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission has proposed a Digital Green Certificate to relaunch free movement within the European Union;]] [[whereas the Netherlands benefits from European coordination of measures taken by EU Member States which have an impact on international traffic;]] [[Whereas, at the same time, health is, above all, a national competence, as has been said several times previously by the Chamber;]] [[Whereas a European certificate would discriminate if it was based solely on a vaccination certificate or if the certificate distinguishes between vaccination, testing or disease;]] [[Calls on the Government to agree to a Digital Green Certificate at the European Council of 25 March 2021 only if it does not distinguish between the options of vaccination, testing or previously experienced covid disease for others than the certificate holder and if this will not lead to a distinction in treatment based on the different options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1657]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u285	I am trying to clarify exactly what Mr Voordewind is trying to do with the motion. Because, as I read the Commission proposal, it is precisely the intention to ensure that there is no discrimination within the Member States if people have the certificate, because they have been tested or vaccinated or have experienced the infection. Is that what you're thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u286	In this motion I wanted to secure once again to the cabinet to exclude all forms of discrimination in relation to the three options, including the subsequent treatment, but also when it comes to getting insight into what form of security it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u287	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u288	Finally. I assume that Mr Voordewind will say: I understand that you have to give some space to people who have been tested or vaccinated or who have been infected. People for whom those three options do not apply cannot be given that space. Otherwise, such a certificate will not do you any good, then you can use it for nothing. I have to say that at least you agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u289	That could indeed be a temporary solution, but it really is temporary, because we must of course return to the Schengen Convention and move freely in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u290	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u291	Mr. Chairman. I've worked well with everyone. I shall table a motion together with Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u292	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u293	You have achievements and you have achievements. I'm gonna go read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Council calls for proposals from the Digital Services Act, the Digital Markets Act and the Data Governance Regulation to improve access to, sharing, pooling and reuse of data;]] [[Whereas in two recent reports by the Van Dam Committee and the Bosman Committee, the Chamber has found that there is a need for more human measure in implementation and that the use of algorithms and automatic processes may hinder this;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce, on behalf of the Netherlands at any relevant time, that due care with human size and privacy regarding data sharing should take precedence over speed or competition interests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1658]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u294	I did not intend to table this motion at first, but the Prime Minister does not want to go into the fact that big pharma plays a very big game of distribution and control between countries that offer the highest and thus get away with what kind of contracts have been concluded by the European Commission. A ship for Australia has already been stopped in an Italian port, and we may now have to stop a cargo destined for the United Kingdom. I'm sorry, but that's divide and conquer, in a pandemic that you have to want to do an analysis of. Hence the next motion. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pharmaceutical industry has different price agreements with different countries for the supply of covid vaccines and that there is no simple explanation for the differences in deliveries;]] [[also noted that despite delivery problems to the EU vaccines are still being exported and that this leads to friction between countries;]] [[believes that the European Commission should learn from the way in which the EU Member States buy and, in particular, the business role of producers should be taken into account;]] [[calls on the Government to take steps to reach such an evaluation and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 May,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1659]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u295	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u296	In the direction of Mr Bishop, I say that is correct. The cabinet believes that QMV will have to decide on human rights violations and sanctions. It's been for a while. That's not new.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u297	Mr. Bishop, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u298	I've saved up all my interruptions for the moment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u299	That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u300	They were only valid for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u301	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u302	It is the first time that I have been so clearly confronted with the statement that we are prepared to surrender a power, to change the treaty and not to veto QMV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u303	Yeah, it really is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u304	There is no decision of the Court on the basis of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u305	No, but it happens all the time. But this is what the cabinet thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u306	Then we should have an orderly debate on that, right? I have been saying for years: let us as a Chamber just discuss with the cabinet how we, as the Netherlands, see the future of the EU. It's always been held back. And then suddenly a doll jumps up, so of "yes, we've always found this." This isn't how it's gonna work, is it? That's a treaty change, for Christ's sake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u307	We'll find this. We are just not in favour of a treaty change, but if the treaty were to be amended, it would be in the hands of the Netherlands. That was already in my speech of 13 February 2019 in Zurich, in my Churchill lecture. But after that, too, we have said so in many debates. However, we will soon have the debate on the state of the Union. Then we could talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u308	I think that's a good place to discuss it, too, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u309	The chances of this happening aren't that great. It is decided unanimously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u310	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u311	We will, but this seems to me to be something that the Cabinet and the Chamber discuss. The State of the Union is a moment to perhaps do so, but then you also talk to other bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u312	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u313	I would like an orderly debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u314	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u315	With regard to Mr Bishop's other question, how can we involve the House of Representatives in the decision-making process on the future of the European Union? We're currently looking at the exact design. The exact effect of how we do that is coming. It is expected at the end of April. That's for starters. That's the brief summary. There will be no decisions before the European Council tomorrow to modernise the customs union, I would point out to Mrs Kuik. It is an option under the positive track, as decided by the European Council in October. It's a possibility. We have checked, but the information from our diplomats is that the discussion on this has not yet started and that it will only start if Turkey's positive steps in the eastern Mediterranean are consolidated. It is therefore important that we first ensure that Turkey complies with the current customs union agreements. The broader issue of human rights and the rule of law is, of course, being considered. So yes, it is a possibility that we will not explore further until the European Union has established that Turkey has permanently improved its behaviour in the eastern Mediterranean. Of course, such a modernisation of the customs union is also in Dutch interest. But again, it's not the issue right now. At least, according to our information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u316	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u317	Mrs Kuik had information from a German source, but we cannot get it confirmed. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 1649: Judgment Chamber. We are sending this along with the European Council report. The motion in part No. 1650. Judging will not be feasible, I think, given the force field. Well, we're gonna try to express our concerns. I think this fits in with this motion. If I may say that we are going to try to express our concerns, the verdict on the motion as far as we are concerned is Chamber. That is how I will interpret the motion, because real condemnation is not going to work. The motion in part No. 1651. That mechanism will be in place on 1 January. If I may explain the motion in such a way as to allow the Commission to examine it now and then to act as soon as possible, I can leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u318	A very brief remark, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u319	If you can't, you can't. But I just had it checked with the EU specialist. Article 278 of the Convention clearly states that an action brought before the Court does not have suspensory effect. That is also why the European Parliament says: you can bring an action for destruction, but that has no suspensive effect on the fact that this mechanism can simply be applied since 1 January. That would, of course, be the call of the motion. Perhaps the Secretary of State can explain to us by letter whether this is not possible or not, which, of course, can be done, and then according to the wish of the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u320	Okay, yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u321	Not a letter, but we will include it in the next annotated agenda or in the European Council report. I'm trying to avoid letters, because we don't have any more civil servants. In the European Council's report, we take into account what is our further assessment of this mechanism. Then I'll leave the motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u322	Yeah, I'm fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u323	The motion in part No. 1652: Judgment Chamber. The commitment is to try to do so through the OECD, and otherwise through the European Union. Judgment Room. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u324	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u325	I would like to ask for the motion in part No. 1653 The implementation of the frameworks is not yet clear. We're in favour of a Green Digital Pass. I shall be voting in favour of this, but this motion is too much ahead of us. I therefore ask Mr Paternotte to hold the motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade him, because there's still too much uncertainty. The motion in part No. 1654: dissuade. We as a cabinet are for such an EU certificate. There are no proposals within the framework of the Health Union outside the framework of the Treaties or the powers that would be changed by them. The motion in part No. 1654 I advise. Like the motion in part No. 1655 now, I must dissuade him. It already contains all kinds of references to genocide. But if the motion were to be made, let me give you an example: 'The Chamber heard the debate, the United Nations asked to investigate whether genocide had been committed on the Uighurs', I could leave him to judge Chamber. That is a very bald motion, but it expresses exactly what Mrs Kuik is asking for on behalf of Sjoerdsma. But there are already far too many blames for China. I can't take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u326	So if the motion is changed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u327	My suggestion would be to keep her as bald as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u328	Otherwise, she's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u329	No considerations, simply "hear the debate, ask the government to ask the UN to investigate whether genocide against Uighurs has taken place'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u330	Thank you for this explanation. I'm gonna go talk to Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u331	Great. I need to dissuade her as she is now, formally, but with that wording she might be able to. The motion in part No. 1656 I ask you to hold. Those lyrics don't come until the end of the year. If she's gonna be in a mood right now, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. For the motion in part No. 1657 actually applies the same thing: arrest and otherwise dissuade. We don't have an effect yet. I am also sympathetic to the direction and purpose of what has already been proposed, but this is very far-reaching. So my proposal would actually be to hold her, otherwise I have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 1658 is Chamber's judgment as far as I'm concerned. If "let go ahead" can be interpreted as "edge condition," it is also entirely in line with the cabinet commitment. I suppose I can read it like that. The motion in part No. 1659 by Mrs Leijten I must advise against. We're not against evaluations, but it's too soon for that. As soon as that is discussed, we will inform the Chamber. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u332	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u333	We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight. I thank the Prime Minister. I thank the spokesmen.
