ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u1	I would ask the journalists to take their other position again. Thank you. I also ask Members to take their place again. The next item is the final report by the informant. Before I start and welcome everyone, I will first give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask the informant a question through you. We had nine parties at the table last week. There are also two more pieces distributed at the table. I would like to ask if these documents can be sent to the Chamber. There have been nine parties at the table, about half of this Chamber. So I think it would be a good idea if the other half of the Chamber would also have the opportunity to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u3	I'll take a look at the informant. Can that be arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u4	I have a non-paper in mind when it comes to finance. I take it that's one of the pieces Mr. Klaver is referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u5	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u6	What about the other part?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u7	The other piece was about the variants of how we could work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u8	The financial piece is a non-paper and the piece with the variants is a paper. So, as far as I am concerned, you can have both documents sent, with that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u9	That's nice. Mrs Kaag has something to say. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u10	I do not want to end up in an exegesis about 'paper' and 'non-paper', but I would just like to make it clear that on half the A4 items the points were worked out as they were discussed orally. So there is no difference in status in that regard. It was an explanation of the options presented orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u11	I think the informant has indicated that the documents are being distributed. It's nice if that can happen today, during the debate. As I said, the debate is on the final report of the informant. I would like to welcome Mr Remkes. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Before we start the debate, I would point out, perhaps in abundance, that the purpose of this debate is to be able to take a next step in the formation. I would like to agree with Members that they can ask six questions or make comments. So you have six moments and you can choose what to do with it or how to wager it. That is exclusive of the factual questions that can be asked to the informant, who is present here to provide information. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u12	I hope this isn't one of my six questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u13	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u14	...but your introduction is not entirely correct. Formally, it is not the intention to take a step further in the formation. Motions on this need to be tabled, there is still a vote to be taken and some parties want elections. So I think the debate is formally about the report of the informant and not about what you make of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u15	Mr. Chairman. I agree with that. However, as a point of order, I would also like to point out that we read every time before the umpteenth formation debate in the newspaper what our next step is. We will see that in the first term the VVD will be told that two new informers will be appointed. Then it's a little drawing at the cross. I think we should have a debate on this and I would also urge the parties not to leak it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u16	Frankly, I share Mr Azarkan's request or call. It's not nice to read the names of the informers in the newspaper every time. I think that's a shared frustration of us as a room. In addition, Mr Wilders' comment is factually correct. It is a matter of taking a step, but which way that goes, of course, depends on the debate in the Chamber. So I'm totally sharing that. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u17	Thank you, Mr President. "Finally" and "hey, hey" are some terms and qualifications that I've heard a lot over the last few days and which we've probably all heard a lot about formation. I understand that too, because it has taken us a long time to get to the debate on these steps in the formation. Of course, my group, the VVD, has also played a part in this. But we can take an important step today. Mr. Azarkan is right: we are debating the report of the informant. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, we are also taking another important step. I am also relieved that we can take that step and that we can continue. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the informant for his work over the last few weeks, for the many conversations he has had and for the patience he has shown in those talks. There is now a clear advice to investigate whether a cabinet can be formed between VVD, D66, CDA and the Christian Union. In the second term, I will table a motion, but I will now state that the VVD would like to present Mr Johan Remkes as an informant for the next phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u18	Let me take a look at Mr Wilders from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u19	Indeed, then we are already done with the debate. We are now being told what a majority will do, but I would like to make a point of this. I have here a quote from the Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, from 15 January this year, when the cabinet resigned. He said, "With this decision today, the cabinet wants to do justice to all those parents to whom unprecedented injustice has been done." Now we are nine months away, and now you will probably decide, at least, that will be your motion to continue with the same coalition, which has caused all this misery with the supplementing affair. Do you understand that people at home don't understand anything about that, that they don't understand that the same gang, that same club, those same people who are responsible for all the misery of the supplemental affair, after calling each other nine months for rotten fish, just keep going? You're just gonna continue to govern. You spit them right in the face. You say: we all have nothing to do with it; we resigned then, but we continue with the same club. Maybe there'll be a few other people, but you'll continue with the same people who resigned. How dare you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u20	The child care allowance affair is a terrible affair. In January, the present Demissionary Cabinet took responsibility for this by stepping down because of the suffering caused to these people over a very long period of time. We cannot just make up for that, other than that we, as well as a new cabinet, are doing everything in our power at this time, at the time of negotiation, in order to alleviate the suffering. The word 'compensate', which we have talked about a lot in the APB, does not do justice to that. That is why I deliberately choose the words 'to ease the suffering'. At the same time, elections took place on 17 March. That's when the voter spoke. A rash came out of that. There are now four parties forming a majority, which are incredibly ambitious and have the energy to address the major questions of the future with an ambitious agenda. And yes, this also includes the further handling of the child care allowance affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u21	If that were what you wanted, you would have done it right after the election. Then you would have sat down together, no matter how wrong it was, but you didn't. You wanted something completely different. You wanted something different; Mrs Kaag wanted to turn left. You're dating because there's nothing else and there's gonna be elections if you don't. That is not for the national interest, that is not for the Netherlands, that is because some parties are afraid to see the electorate. But that's not an answer to my question. I have here a lady, a victim of the supplemental affair, who literally says she felt it "like a knife in her back" when she heard that the four parties, CDA, VVD, D66 and Christian Union, are going for a fourth cabinet Rutte. She felt like a knife in her back that the people who caused the misery just keep going on like nothing's wrong. It's not just the people who feel that way about the supplemental affair. What should the Netherlands expect? Are we just gonna have the same policy again? Will we get the same parties, with more climate and more immigration again? Can we get the same thing again? Then what did we have the election for? Again, what do you say to the people at home who are thinking: we are fooled; they have resigned because of the surcharge affair and the same parties, often even the same people, like Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag, are all coming back one by one? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u22	I can imagine that it will be very complicated for the victims of the premium affair that we, as parties, should now form a cabinet. In any case, I can imagine that regaining this group's confidence in politics will be an incredibly complicated task, but I do feel motivated and responsible to do everything about it. At the same time, there is the election result of 17 March. Today is October 5th, out of my mind, so March 17th is over six months ago. In my opinion, the Netherlands is also waiting for action here from The Hague and for the next step in the formation. Yeah, it took too long. And yes, we have a responsibility in that too. But we can now take the next step today. I think that is extremely important for all the questions that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u23	Finally, I say to Mrs Hermans, Mrs van de VVD: no one is waiting for you. No one's waiting for you. 29% of the Dutch think that a continuation of the current coalition is a good idea. Not one in three Dutch people think it is a good idea that VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion continue. The Dutch are not waiting for you. Mrs Kaag's party, D66, and the CDA have lost 17 seats compared to March. There's no support for the CDA anymore, and D66 heats backwards in the polls. Not one in three people want your cabinet. They don't want that. They see that you've made mistakes and that you've been responsible for the supplementing affair. They find the abject. They think you're just going on like nothing's going on. You have not been able to mention in your answers one thing that changes. We're just getting Rutte again. We're just getting Kaag again. We just get the same people again from the supplementing affair and nothing changes in the Netherlands. You spit people right in the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u24	Just before the APB there was a study that showed that confidence in politics has fallen from a sufficient to an insufficient. I understand that this has happened in the last few months, months in which we have been working a lot on ourselves here in The Hague. But that motivates extra to get down to work and do everything in its power to regain that trust. That doesn't happen overnight, I understand. But these four parties... Let me at least speak for the VVD: we are extremely motivated and have the energy to work with these four parties to reach a government agreement to tackle the major problems facing this country. Then it will be up to you, to the groups here in the Chamber, but also to people at home, to assess whether we have succeeded. But at least we are very motivated to work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u25	Mrs Marijnissen van de SP and then Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u26	On the point made by Mr Wilders, I think that it is particularly terrible for the parents affected by the supplement scandal to hear that this cabinet, which has fallen over, intends to start over. But a lot of people in the Netherlands will not understand what is actually going to change. We constantly hear nice talk about new leadership and about the radical ideas Mark Rutte would have about a new governance culture. But today alone was in the news that in the same surcharge scandal there was again information that the Chamber had asked for several times, which the Chamber should have had to do in order to do its job properly, did not arrive on time for political reasons. And what is even worse is that the PwC report shows that the moment the Chamber hears people under oath to get the right information out of the table, the truth is not being told. Mind you, the draft report, which the Chamber had to ask again this weekend, showed this because it was not in the final version. What does that say for Mrs Hermans? And can you explain when we're actually going to start this new governance culture? Because it hasn't started for the time being, we'll establish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u27	The resolution, resolution and alleviation of suffering must, after all that has happened in the supplementing affair, be the top priority, including of the present outgoing cabinet, and will soon be a very important subject for the new cabinet. At the same time, there are many more issues that we need to work on and for which we need to make an agenda. That shouldn't just be a bit of plastering here and there, no, that should really be an ambitious agenda. That is where these four parties are now negotiating today. With that coalition agreement, with that programme we come back to the Chamber, and then it is up to us to convince you of the ambition that that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u28	This can't be happening, can it? All weekend on TV, we heard Mrs Van Huffelen, the Secretary of State responsible for solving the surcharge scandal and ensuring that these parents are justiced, tell us that she does not really have a clue when a solution is in sight, and that it may take years to come. The only thing these parents are constantly hearing, even now from Mrs Hermans, is: we are doing so much work, we are working so hard. No, that is not even true either, because the report that has been published today shows that the senior officials of the Tax Administration, who were heard under oath by the parliamentary interrogation committee, simply did not speak the truth. That is very serious in itself, but even worse is that because of it these parents have been in misery for much longer than necessary. You can't talk straight, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u29	I would like to take two things apart here: on the one hand, the negotiations that are about to start for a new cabinet, for a new agenda for the coming years, and on the other hand, everything that needs to be done, everything that needs to be done to do justice to what these parents have been through. I think Mrs Marijnissen and I, both as Members of the Chamber, are pulling at the same end of the rope. If there is a debate next week or next week on how to deal with everything that is going on, you will see that we are as eager as you are to ensure that this happens as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u30	So I'm starting to wonder more and more. I do not feel that we are all pulling the same end of the rope, as Mrs Hermans says. In fact, I would like to mention a specific example, namely that today it is known that the Chamber does not receive the information it is asking for. The Chamber is just trying to find a solution as quickly as possible, but our ideas for this are always put aside in one day. If Mrs Hermans says that this cannot be done and that she agrees with me, does she think that it is necessary to examine this carefully? If the truth has not been spoken here, there is already a declaration and the truth has not been told in the Chamber, just under oath, then that is punishable. Does Mrs Hermans think that the Chamber should stand right in front of her position? Or does Mrs Hermans think we can let that pass?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u31	In my view, there is a regular debate with the outgoing Secretary of State on the progress and progress in the handling of the premium affair. On the one hand, I believe that the Chamber should take its role there at the pace and continue to ask why things do not happen or last longer than has been conceived or reported in advance. On the other hand, I believe that there is going to be a parliamentary inquiry into this affair and we can also ask a lot of these questions from Mrs Marijnissen, so that they can also be examined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u32	The leader here, the group chairman of the VVD, says: I watched with my eyes how confidence in the cabinet fell to an insufficient, 29%. Well, that's because the leader of the VVD stood here first lying and then we all had to perform a play to make sure that this leader was acceptable and that others wanted to work with him anyway. The other part about which we have been delayed is because, as far as that exists, that constructive middle collapsed with each other. They were called rotten fish over and over again. What responsibility does Mrs Hermans take for these delays and for the fall in confidence from the Dutch, who do not see that their problems are being solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u33	I think I said something about this two weeks ago during the debate and also just now. The VVD has also played a part in the slow cabinet formation so far. We're partly responsible for that. I take that responsibility, and I feel it. That's why I'm attracted to you by the trust you've given me. At the same time, I can do two things. I can hang in there and keep looking at that figure, or I can put everything on everything and go hard to get that trust back. Will that be easy? No, I don't think so. Am I gonna do anything about it? Yes, you can count on it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u34	Maybe that just starts with not informing the Chamber wrongly, not lying to her and not telling her lies. Maybe you should have a good talk with your leader, because that's what's holding us back. In January, this cabinet promised a radically different approach. I would like to ask Mrs Hermans if she could mention three things which demonstrate this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u35	In January, the cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber following the child care allowance affair and the report that had been published on it. In it, the cabinet has outlined a number of things that would enable it to work. In my view, two weeks ago, we concluded that things are not as fast and as fast as we would like. I'll share that. I share that with Mr Azarkan. At the same time, we are having a discussion about how we want more dualism and debate between the Chamber and the Cabinet. The new cabinet has an important mission in this regard. These four parties also have the ambition to achieve this. Do we know exactly what that's gonna look like? No. We all want a shorter coalition agreement, a coalition agreement on the main lines. We're gonna have to see exactly how that's gonna unpack and work. We all have a responsibility in that, all 150.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u36	My question was what three things have changed since 15 January, when the cabinet became outgoingary. The cabinet then actually received a huge qualification, namely: there has been unprecedented injustice under the leadership of the cabinet and certainly by Minister Rutte, who has been there for ten years. There has been unprecedented injustice! The question is, in my view, what happens now in deeds and not in fine words. I'm sure you'll find those lovely words. Everyone hears that. But the question is, what happened in action? Can you just name three which show that progress has been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u37	The actions you are asking for are the actions of the cabinet. I would ask you to put these questions to the cabinet at an appropriate time. If you ask me that question, I would like to refer to how we have had the debate here on the General Political Reviews. We have sought cooperation with each other, widely throughout the Chamber, with all the parties who wanted to make a constructive contribution. That was a debate on content. It was a debate on all the subjects that came along. I think that's how it's done here. Then, together, we have to submit a proposal or actually impose it, you might say, on the cabinet. I think that's a change, a renewal, which we should go on with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u38	I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u39	If 77 members of this Chamber want to form a cabinet, they can do so. But that cabinet fell on January 15th. Since then, 45 out of 45,000 families have been helped by the Real Damage Committee. At this rate, it takes 500 years for it to be finished. The Chamber asked for a state commission on the rule of law, which had been violated. There's no state committee. The government has agreed that there will be a government commissioner who will put the archives in order. Then we wouldn't get all those black papers, or those 9,000 destroyed files from the people who can't be helped. There's no government commissioner. The Chamber asked, "Do you want an investigation standard so the government doesn't investigate itself anymore?" Last week there was a note: we're not going to do that. In the PwC report, we saw the consequences. All promises made from 15 January have not been fulfilled. I ask the VVD: is there a promise I missed about the new governance culture that has been fulfilled by this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u40	As I said just now, the VVD Group also believes that the promises and commitments made in the letter which Mr Omtzigt is now quoting, or setting out examples, must be kept. This may not be so explicitly written in that letter, but let me mention one of my own irritations: in many cases the answer to parliamentary questions can be much faster and b much more concrete and explicit. How many times do you have to read through and ask through, read through and ask through to get the right answer to the question? So when it comes to innovation and more dualism, you will find me entirely on your side. The four parties that are now going to negotiate will also look at a new governance style. And I have just mentioned the coalition agreement on the main lines and a ministerial council which then starts working on a government programme. I don't know exactly what that's gonna look like, either. That's going to be a discovery that we're going to have to go through together and discover. But I believe that this is also part of the renewal of culture, in which all of us, all 150 Members of Parliament, and later the members of the cabinet, have a responsibility and a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u41	I have many wishes for the new cabinet, and too much for my speaking time in a moment. They are about the housing crisis, about a different administrative culture, about a short government agreement. I get that. But I am simply asking, since we are now nine months further away from the fall of the cabinet: which of these promises have been fulfilled? I've kept a list of seven cases up here. There were another or two from the room. I've got zero! I've got zero! We have heard examples of what the cabinet has achieved over the past eight months. And why do I think that's important to stress? Because exactly the same parties are going to make a start. They do that with exactly the same party leaders in the cabinet, which is extremely unwise, but they will find out for themselves. But they haven't done anything for nine months. How then can we get new promises when the old promises, which were solemnly made, "a great deal has gone wrong" have not been fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u42	Mr Omtzigt is right to ask questions, but I would ask him to put them to the cabinet. I stand here as acting group chairman of the VVD. I will tell you what my ambition is and how the VVD Group looks at the new cabinet, the cabinet that now needs to be negotiated. So I share a lot of the questions he asks. I also have the ambition to improve things in that style of administration and in that interaction between Cabinet and Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u43	I understand that we have to believe that everything is going to be new: new governance culture; we are going to do everything better; we are going to arrange it in the formation. I just do not understand very well where the VVD Group is getting the confidence that this is actually going to happen. And why does the VVD Group think that we have confidence in that, given the government's actions, both when it was still missionary and the whole period after that, when it was outgoing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u44	This reminds me a little of our debate two weeks ago. That's when we were talking about intentions. My motivation and intention is to work constructively with the parties in the coalition in the coming years, with the VVD Group, but also with all parties in the opposition, where it succeeds and where opposition parties are involved, precisely because I believe that we should do it together, with more parties than just in the coalition. I have that ambition, I have that energy to work with. It will have to prove in the coming period whether we can convince you of this, because I do not think that you and I will be able to come out in an interrupting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u45	Well, not when you talk about intentions all the time, because I think my question is very valid, also given the figures that citizens have no confidence in this cabinet. We have to establish that this cabinet has been below the qualification limit, regardless of which party you are as a ruler. If you are a ruler, you have to operate within the limits of the rule of law. The cabinet didn't do that. In the surcharge scandal, citizens have been crushed by the government. In the nitrogen scandal there had to be a ruling from the judge, and yet the rulers were not able to push to obtain their mínimal qualification. Urgenda, same story. It's not a snuffy stage, forming a cabinet, where you still have a lot of outside help to make sure you get what you're supposed to; that you get: okay, this is my job, I have to do that and how nice that people from outside are still helping a little. You must also have the motivation to remain within the limits of the rule of law. This cabinet didn't show that. And now we have to believe that in a formation conversation it is suddenly going to make that change? Then I'll just ask the VVD group: where do they get that confidence from themselves and how do you get the idea that we can trust it here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u46	Mrs Ouwehand mentions a number of issues which are the major issues for the new cabinet, for politics in general, in the coming years. It's about an affordable house, it's about a perspective for farmers, it's about a clean environment, it's about maintaining our nature here in the Netherlands. Yeah, that's some serious shit. This requires very serious work, first and foremost in order to reach a good government agreement, good people in the cabinet who are going to implement it. And then to us, 150 members of the House of Representatives, to check that closely and come up with proposals where we think it can be better and sharper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u47	Finally. This ignores the fundamental problem. If you are not prepared to reflect on the very deep concrete rot that this cabinet and also the predecessors, by the way, also the Cabinet-Balkenende, it is really not just the Cabinets-Rutte... But if you have to note that we have been led by people who did not feel by themselves that the minimum what you should do is respect the rule of law, even if that is politically unwelcome; nitrogen, Urgenda... then you can expect that if you again rely on the confidence of the Chamber that things are going differently now, you will see first: they have performed far below the mínimal threshold. We will have to find something about that, we will have to say something about it, and I would like to believe that Mrs Herman has good intentions for us to move forward. But if you don't even want to know, we're not gonna get anywhere. Then the citizen can't have faith in the start of the same cabinet, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u48	Mrs. Ouwehand mentioned reflection. I think you can say a lot of things about the VVD, but not that we have not reflected in recent years or shared those reflections with you in the various debates. These reflections should then lead to actions and actions, and I agree with Mrs Ouwehand. That is what we are going to work hard on in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u49	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u50	Mr. Chairman. Hopefully we will be able to take the next step after the debate today. That means discussing the substance of the important issues before us. I just mentioned them: an affordable house, a clean environment, a perspective for farmers, security in your neighborhood, in the neighborhood, but also safety of our country in the world. For example, there are many other issues that we need to deal with. In short, there's work to be done, so let's get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u51	There is another interruption by Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u52	I understand the colleagues. Mrs Hermans pretends to start all the work in formation now, but we have been seven months and even nine months since the fall of the cabinet. There have been promises made by the coalition, by the cabinet, about everything that would go otherwise. I agree with Mr Omtzigt: little has yet been done. So we don't start at zero, not even in formation. This summer a document was delivered on the main lines by the VVD and D66. My question to Mrs Hermans: is this also the starting point for the negotiations that are about to start?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u53	Indeed, this document has been hard worked on last summer. There are also a number of things about administrative culture and working methods. There are elements in it that VVD and D66 agree on. We consider them important and we would like them to be implemented in the coming years. But we work with other parties in a cabinet. If you're gonna negotiate, if you're gonna work together, you're gonna talk about that and you're gonna have to compromise. Some of these issues will have to be dealt with. You can read in that document what is important for VVD and D66 and what will be the stakes for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u54	I think that's important, because not everything needs to be reinvented. The promises made about greater transparency do not need to be renegotiated, no, they need to be implemented. This has been discussed. It has been said that this was the agreement we had as a Chamber that the content would be worked on and that it would be considered which parties could join. I assume that this is the starting point of these conversations, that this document is being worked out. If not, my very simple question would be: what the hell did you do to each other all summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u55	The subject of transparency, referred to by Mr Klaver, is a subject on which the four parties very quickly agree, by the way, with a lot of parties here in the Chamber. Furthermore, I have just said what I said about the document: it is what VVD and D66 agree on, it is an important part of our commitment to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u56	I thought it was a good question from Mr Klaver, because I had him myself. What's the status of this? I read this morning in the AD that several VVDs, of course anonymously, say: we should only give less value to that document of the summer. Is it still proud? We have generally seen how left-progressive that pamphlet is. It was well received on the left; we were less enthusiastic. I think it's really become a D66 piece. Is it gonna stay that way? Or do you say: on second thought, we were liberated from PvdA and GroenLinks in the new round of formation, can we ever set up a tree about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u57	What I just said: it is a document that VVD and D66 have been working on, in which VVD and D66 can agree, in which ambitions of both parties stand. But we're gonna work together now. We're going to form a cabinet with two other parties. And I think it's the core of such a collaboration that you and the four of you will have a conversation about topics and directions in there that you think are important. I believe that the commitment of VVD and D66 to the issues covered in that document is clear. And we're going to talk to CDA and Christian Union about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u58	This answer really doesn't mean anything to me. Let me ask you a different question. I think this is a bit contrary to the story of Remkes about the brief coalition agreement. That pamphlet, that piece of yours, is quite extensive. It's pretty bulky. How do you reconcile that with the final judgment of Remkes, who says: it really must be a short, concise government agreement that the Chamber has a lot to say about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u59	I don't think one should rule out the other. This is a piece that VVD and D66 wrote. And after this debate, hopefully VVD, D66, CDA and Christian Union will negotiate a joint government agreement. The four of us can determine how long and how thick that should be. Our common ambition is to make it a document on the main lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u60	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kaag of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u61	Madam President. Before I start, I would like to address Mr Remkes in response to reports in the media last week. I called him directly about this last week and I also put it in the conversation last Wednesday with nine parties. I say to Mr Remkes here in this Chamber, also through you, that the words have been taken back immediately, and I think that is quite right. I wanted to mark this formally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u62	Thank you. I see Mrs Marijnissen from the SP with a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u63	About this point. I think Mrs Kaag's comment is correct. I find it particularly annoying, because it also has a very high level of gossip and hindquarters. But it's something that was said from D66. I think that many people at home do not care so much; they prefer us to talk about the housing shortage here rather than about this kind of sad talk. But as far as I'm concerned, it does say something about how you look at politics and how you do politics. Mrs Kaag, of course, made that promise several times in the election campaign about 'new leadership'. How does this behavior of D66 relate to that promised "new leadership"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u64	Through you, I say to Mrs Marijnissen: those words were taken back immediately, and rightly so. I acted immediately. As I said, I have spoken directly to Mr Remkes, and I have also re-appointed half of this Chamber directly to the nine parties. I've discussed it with the President of the Chamber. I've taken responsibility. Just as you can appeal to ministers for words or actions by officials, you can address me on that. I believe that I have said these words. How does this relate? The words have been taken back and, as I said, it is quite right that they have been taken back immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u65	Of course, that is not entirely an answer to my question, apart from the fact that taking back words is generally quite difficult, because they are spoken and of course there were two people from D66 present in that negotiating room. That is why the question is right here where it comes from and why D66 does something like that at all. If you speak big words about new leadership, and you have to come back to that again and apologize and take back words, that doesn't relate to each other, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u66	I think the message was the way it is. I can assure you that neither Mr Jetten nor myself has anything to do with the words spoken. But more importantly, I take responsibility for all our people and the words have been taken back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u67	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u68	Okay. Well, that's a little special. My information was always that the D66 negotiating delegation consisted of Mrs Kaag and Mr Jetten. In my opinion, they have been sitting in one room with Mr Remkes, which these gossip and back-scratches were all about. If it didn't come from them, because that impression lives here now, I'd like to hear from Mrs Kaag whether she can take that impression away, preferably by telling us, of course, who it came from. I can imagine that more people have that question. Mr President, I have a further question for Mrs Kaag, also in the wake of that new leadership and the new governance culture and so on. I understand that D66 is going to present Mr Koolmees as an informant. We will vote on this later. But now we know from the leaked minutes of the Council of Ministers that it was of course Mr Koolmees who complained. I looked up the literal quote: he was "very upset" about the collaboration between Pieter Omtzigt and Renske Leijten here in the Chamber around the supplemental scandal. So this Mr Koolmee complained in the Council of Ministers not about that surcharge scandal, but about the fact that two critical MPs here, who fortunately bit through and got something over the table, were working together. How does that relate to this new administrative culture and why does D66 come up with Mr Koolmees to shape that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u69	I should perhaps like to return to Mr Koolmees' proposal in my own speech. Then I can also take Mrs Marijnissen's question, if that's all right. At first, as I said earlier, just as ministers vouch for and take responsibility for their officials, I take responsibility for the D66 team. If Mrs Marijnissen would suggest that Mr Jetten and I have had all kinds of talk, then that is not the case. But I take responsibility. I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u70	I'm giving the floor to... Mrs Kaag has indicated that she will at least come back to Mr Koolmees' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u71	I heard that in her contribution, but I would like an answer from her now, because I am standing here to ask that question. I would also like to stress that if Mrs Kaag insists that it did not come from her or Mr Jetten, I think it is very logical that we should ask ourselves who it came from. Mrs Kaag is no longer here as Minister, so that comparison does not work. Mrs Kaag is now standing here as a Member of Parliament. I ask her this as a fellow member of the Chamber and I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u72	Yeah, and my answer is that I took responsibility for something that shouldn't have happened. I'll stick with that. We ourselves talk about internal D66 matters when that suits us. It's been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u73	Let me begin by congratulating Mrs Kaag on being here for a moment between her other important work today. I hope they don't suffer too much. It's good to have you here for a moment. I'd like to go back to Mr. Remkes. The answers you gave my colleague from the SP are just a little too easy. It has simply been said that Mr Remkes was confused. Read, he'd been drinking. That is false, that is mean, and that is as we have known you in the past six months. You didn't say that to the Secretary of Defense when you came in here together, that you were going to resign. There are many examples that fit into a pattern. I would like to know how that went, because only you and Mr Jetten were present at that meeting. So you are the one of the two who could have seen that Mr Remkes might have been drinking, if it were true. Now it says in the press that they were two informers and Mr. Sjoerdsma. I saw that Mr Sjoerdsma was not present, so I think: damn, that's right, otherwise he would have been a guy and he would have been sitting here in the room. Sjoerdsma's not here. Can I ask you whether it is true that you or Mr Jetten told Mr Sjoerdsma that? Only you and Mr Jetten could have told Mr Sjoerdsma. Mr Sjoerdsma was not in the negotiations. Did Mr Sjoerdsma go to the press on his own initiative, or at the suggestion of you or Mr Jetten, together with two informers, to say that Remkes was confused and there was alcohol on the table? I want to know. It's an important thing. Is that from you? Is that from Mr Jetten? Why did Mr Sjoerdsma do that? Was that on your own initiative, or did you or Mr Jetten direct him to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u74	My answer remains the same, including to Mr Wilders. The answer's the same. Words have been taken back and rightly so. I acted immediately. That's the situation. Internal discussions of D66 are to D66 just as you, I believe, are not accountable to this Chamber in any other case, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u75	Whenever Mrs. Kaag gets into trouble, she gets fake, or she goes back to you-baking. For once, try not to be so unkind. We're all asking you serious questions and we just want it cleared up. The NIS, the state broadcaster you so acclaimed, has announced that it was two informers and Mr Sjoerdsma. It wasn't just about the NIS. It seems that Mr Sjoerdsma and those two spokesmen have approached three, four, five, six different media. I didn't. They did. You are the political leader of D66, so I ask you to clarify that. How did that end up with them? Again, that's not an intern thing. That can only have been done through Mr Jetten. Perhaps Mr Jetten has the courage to answer. Doesn't he dare? He's gonna stay put. Perhaps you can answer. How did that end up with Sjoerdsma and those swindlers? I repeat my question: why did Sjoerdsma do that? Did he do that spontaneously? And if so, did you talk to him about that? Or did he do it on your advice? You cannot first make sure that those people who spider, that false lie about Remkes, bring out and then say: I am not going to answer for it, because that is something internal. It's not an intern thing. Those people went outside, to the NOS and other media, made the spider Remkes had been drinking. That's what they did to the audience. That's not an intern thing. That's an audience. You're not gonna get away with saying, "I'm not gonna say another word about it." How'd that go? Who did that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u76	I repeat: I have acted directly before. I called Mr. Remkes. I made sure that the words were taken back immediately. You can see that my view is that I think it is quite wrong what has happened. D66 acted internally. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u77	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Dan kan ik niet anders dan concluderen dat het een hele grote laffe bende is bij D66.]] After consultation with the informant and the other parties to tell Mr Sjoerdsma and two informers that Remkes was apparently drinking. Once again, this can only have been done by her or Mr Jetten. Again, I'm not saying it was. Maybe it's not even true at all, but that's the story that was brought out. The NOS and other media have picked that up. Fortunately, Mr Remkes does not care much about that, but he is damaged by it. It's damaged because of it. It's a dirty gossip about something that can't come out. You are called to account by colleagues here and then you get into your nest. Then you are afraid to tell us where Mr Sjoerdsma is. Where's Mr. Sjoerdsma? Why doesn't Mr Sjoerdsma come here and tell us what he's done? Did you address Mr Sjoerdsma? Did Mr. Sjoerdsma lose his wallet? Will Mr Sjoerdsma be on the list next time? Did you call on Mr Sjoerdsma to do so? Did he do it himself? Where's Mr. Sjoerdsma? Why shouldn't we know? This is not an incident; this has happened before. It's happened before that these schmucky, dirty games come from your side. Now you will probably repeat that it is an internal matter and you do not want to answer it again. D66's internal case stinks. You're hurting everyone. You say about the Christian Union that it's a rusty car. You put seven knives in Mr. Rutte's back in your Schoo-lecture. About the informant, you let your people say he was drunk, drunk like a strawberry. Shame on you. The fact that you are not responsible for this is far below your level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u78	I would just like to look at Mr Azarkan if there is any need...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u79	Don't I get an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u80	I don't have anything to say about this. That goes without saying. It's your words, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u81	I can have an answer, can't I? You can have the courtesy to answer me, can't you? Why are you standing there arrogantly waving your arms? First, you're gonna give me a sneak. Now you're messing around. I'm asking a normal question. I formulate it neatly and politely. I want an answer to that. You may laugh a little nervous again, but I just want an answer to my comment and my question. How did that end up with Mr Sjoerdsma? Why did you do it? Why could the entire media first be informed and you now say as a little girl: "I can't say anything about it, you know. That happened at my house"? No, the whole of the Netherlands saw it. Answer me and clarify. How does that dirty, fake machine at D66 work to blackmail people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u82	My answer is clear. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u83	I would just like to look at Mr Azarkan's question as to whether there is still a need for an interruption. No. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u84	I notice that Mrs Kaag says: those words have been taken back and I have taken responsibility. But I wonder why it is not said that those words should never have been spoken. Because taking something back doesn't mean that you're not somehow behind it. That's what I hear all the time. Should those words have just never been spoken instead of being taken back? For I fully agree with Mr Wilders that Mr Remkes has been damaged in any event.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u85	I deliberately said that they were rightly taken back. I also said in my conversation with Mr Remkes and the President that those words should of course never have been spoken. I will talk later on about the wider media and about conversations about each other in the media. But Mrs van der Plas is right: it should never have been said. That is why the words were rightly and immediately taken back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u86	I'm glad that's what's being said here. Here's what I'm wondering. I understand that Mrs Kaag says: it is an internal matter. On the other hand, we are talking about people who are likely to be in a cabinet and who may be in office. So I think it goes a little further than just an internal matter, because it's not right now: we're going to go into the order of the day and we're going to do our thing. These are people who are going to run our country and who are responsible for very big tasks such as climate, living, agriculture and so on. I would like to ask Mrs Kaag to think about it and to be clear about it, because once again, these people will soon be able to join a coalition and be given an executive role as directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u87	I understand Mrs van der Plas' suggestion, but I am not making any statements on the substance of what we have discussed internally. Furthermore, I do not anticipate the issues of content, let alone appointments. I will explain our commitment to the possible formal start of negotiations for a cabinet. Then it's about possible humanization and choices in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u88	Finally, a question. Is it possible that the people involved in that gossip and backslapping will soon become a ruler? Is that possible for Mrs Kaag and D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u89	I am not going to go into this at the moment, because then I am going to anticipate an outcome that I do not know about either. First of all, I would like to talk about the process and our expectations. Then, when we're at the end table, we look at who, what and where. That takes a lot more than a few names that might have been named in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u90	So you're not ruling out that these people can just get a post as minister or secretary of state?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u91	I am not doing that on principle at the moment, because I do not think it is the conversation that should be held here. That is the fundamental choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u92	You will continue your speech, Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u93	I shall now begin my speech, Madam President. It's almost seven months after the election. We had and we all have an expensive duty to work with the results, no matter how complicated they are. As has already been mentioned in detail, a long period of obstacles and blockades followed after the outcome. You are all aware, through the reports by Mr Tjeenk Willink, Mrs Hamer and now Mr Remkes, of the proposals submitted by different parties at different times. D66 has been committed to a progressive, broad and stable cabinet composition. VVD and CDA connected and also blocked the connected PvdA and GroenLinks. When that situation continued, last week I decided to lift my blockade. It wasn't easy, but I thought it was necessary, with my group. In the end, we were faced with the choice: negotiation of content or new elections. D66 elected first: because society is entitled to it, out of respect for the electorate, and because politicians and parties are there to achieve results and not to paralyze the country. D66, in my view, has made every effort over the past year to get the political blockades of others off the table, along the lines of content and with formal and informal discussions. We have discussed all possible ways to work together: whether the VVD and the CDA would still want to work with the PvdA and GroenLinks, or whether the VVD could work without the CDA and whether it could work with six parties or in other innovative forms of cooperation. I must conclude that I have not been able to lift the blockades of other parties. They can only do that on their own. That didn't happen. As much as I regret that this is not the case, the substance of this does not change our commitment, quite the contrary. Now that the cabinet can't carry even more progressive or left-wing power in addition to D66 in its composition, that power must come from the content even more. We want a more progressive policy that puts an end to increasing equality of opportunity, combats the climate crisis ambitiously and strengthens and protects our freedom, including through European integration and closer international cooperation. In short, we feel the duty to express the voice of progressive Netherlands in the government. This should be a different cabinet than the previous one, with different policies and a new political culture; a culture in which the room between cabinet and chamber is widening and the differences between coalition and opposition are narrowing. Mr. Chairman. The next few weeks will have to show whether we can achieve a good result in terms of content in the negotiations. It's not gonna be easy, and it's not sure if it's gonna work. But it is worth it in my best opinion, because I am convinced that the people in the Netherlands have been helped more with politicians who take responsibility for solving their problems than with politicians who want to send them to the polls for the second time within a year. We feel the responsibility to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion and to form a cabinet that does justice to the progressive ideals of D66. That is why I shall return to part of Mrs Marijnissen's question on behalf of D66 to appoint Wouter Koolmees as an informant, in addition to the presentation of the VVD. I am convinced that Mr Koolmees' knowledge and experience in this country can be very helpful at this stage. If the House of Representatives agrees to his appointment, he shall resign his duties as Minister for the duration of this mandate. He will not return to another cabinet; he can operate autonomously and freely. Finally, I would like to end by expressing our great thanks to Mr Remkes for his perseverance, determination and the gentle pressure he has exerted at a decisive moment at this stage of the negotiations. Of course, my group wholeheartedly supports his proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u94	Thank you. First Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA and then Mr Azarkan of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u95	My question concerns Mr Koolmees, who is proposed by D66 as an informant. I have a concern about that. Not about Mr Koolmees himself, because I think that many of us have appreciated his work, including the Corona Support. But he's Minister of Social Affairs and Employment. There are still a number of major dossiers that require rapid handling: the corona aid and the pension agreement that needs to be further developed. Mrs Kaag called the missionary cabinet itself a pigeon loft; many ministers have left. Is this wise with the workload that Mr Koolmees already has? I'd like to have a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u96	Mrs Ploumen is, of course, quite right about that. I have also discussed this with Mr Koolmees. He took his time, too. The assessment is twofold. We're in a hurry. We really need to speed up. There's a lot of content. Think of the document on the main lines of VVD and D66 and many of the reports, both those of Mr Tjeenk Willink and those of Mrs Hamer. There's a lot down there. The optimistic scenario is that we can get out quickly in the very short term, with a thin coalition agreement and an implementation programme. If it takes longer, of course that is a question. But Mr Koolmees has assured me that he has made the assessment that this can be done, taking into account the concern he has about the proper handling of the large packages and dossiers that he still wants to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u97	I very much hope that things will work out as Mr Koolwens himself has in mind. Then I still have a follow-up question. At the beginning of the formation we don't have to discuss that all over again. It went all wrong with scouts who are very close to current politics, today's politics, everyday. I think I remember that wide in the Chamber there was a feeling that it would be wise to ask reformers or explorers with a little more distance from current politics in the future. I am looking at Mr Remkes. How does Mrs Kaag view this in view of the proposed appointment of Mr Koolmees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u98	That is also a valid point, but in the end it has been decisive that Mr Koolmees, like no other, knows what mistakes we should not repeat. He has great knowledge of content. As far as D66 is concerned, he is the informant, together with Mr Remkes, who is all about the content and the great change. Because Mr Koolmees has no intention of returning to active politics, he is at a different distance. I understand the point, but he was the best. In the end, I chose the best candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u99	It's gonna be a bumpy ride. I saw Mrs Kaag when she had to tell her, as if she had just finished her last earpiece, that D66 was going to negotiate. That's how it felt to me; that's my qualification. She said a little threatening: we're doing it right or we're not doing it. Is Mrs Kaag aware that she is in a kind of rusty car with a Prime Minister behind the wheel who has repeatedly shown a pattern of forgetfulness at times when it suits him, which she herself blamed for humanity and who has no vision but zips and regulates? What will Mrs Kaag do to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u100	What I am sure with D66 is also true of the other parties that are beginning to offer hope for the negotiations, is an enormous ambition and tangible results in terms of climate, tackling inequality of opportunity, the best education that will enable us to compete again and, of course, a voice and role in Europe. But, of course, think about the execution of judgments. That cannot be done alone; that is something we must all want and do. Think also of the approach to nitrogen. The chord... no, not the chord; I keep saying "agreement," excuse. The basic document, which is very important for D66, is a first set-up for this. I hope that during this period, especially for us as D66, we will find cooperation with the parties on the left, in order to strengthen the progressive sound, but also in order to increase the level of cooperation. "Apply" is a gloomy perspective. No one's in politics to hurt the country. We're all here to bring about improvement. That's our bet. Whether it's gonna work, I'm afraid to say at the moment. You can judge us by the content, if it is actually there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u101	Mrs Kaag said: I have tried everything to influence others and I have not succeeded; this is the responsibility I take. That's a good thing for Mrs Kaag. Maybe a detail question. I read somewhere that Mrs Kaag was accused of ordering pillows during the talks. I just liked the sign that she posted a nice post on social media about it and said: these are the pillows. I myself had bought them at the Beverwijk bazaar for half the price, but well. My question to Mrs Kaag is whether she came up with that herself or whether it was her communication team.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u102	Well, you know, one reason. I am not even looking at social media at all. Honesty commands me to say that, because most social media are very women's unfriendly or, worse, threatening. But this was a comedy one. I was surprised because I did it on a break. I've been working full-time for 30 years. I usually work 60, 70 hours a week. I had at some point during my move in June... I'd better get on with it, because you're asking such a personal question. Now you'll have my whole life with me, Mr. Azarkan. In June, I was Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and also Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also did the formation calls, and I did a move in between. I didn't have time to buy pillows for the beds out there, so I thought, in the break... I think that's kind of a labor right, that if you're on a break, you're not at work, you can do whatever you want, within the limits of the law, of course. So I did something just functional as far as I was concerned: I ordered two pillows. What I find much more interesting is that it is a subject of conversation at all, let alone that people write about it and that there is another question about it. That is my surprise, I say to Mr Azarkan. But I can always advise you, because I've had hernias and good pillows are very important. I think the question was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u103	The question has been answered well. Mrs. Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u104	My question isn't about pillows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u105	Thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u106	By the way, I would have bought it at the recycling shop, but that aside. I hear Mrs Kaag say: our commitment is climate and the execution of judgments by the judge. We have often exchanged views about this and then the answer was always: with this cabinet we will not get any further, but wait for the following. The problem is, of course, that judgments by the judge had to be respected and that D66 kept this cabinet in the saddle, whereas this cabinet did not. The question is, therefore, what we should now rely on as a confidence that a next cabinet, consisting of exactly the same parties as the cabinet that actually said "yes, yes, rulings from the judge, who sometimes finds something, we don't have to act on it and we just look at what we like ourselves," which would then do differently. At first, D66 was not prepared to withdraw its ministers from a cabinet that simply ignored the rule of law and now we have to believe that it is a tough condition for a subsequent cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u107	I think Mrs Ouwehand is right to call this. I brought it up, too. For us, of course, this is one of the great lessons of this experience and I think for the other parties as well. If trust is lost or ashamed, it must be regained and earned back. I think that is the ambition that, because of the content and new cooperation arrangements, but also because of the healthy distance between Chamber and Coalition, a thin coalition agreement and broad cooperation, there are all kinds of ways in which hopefully that trust will be earned quickly and we will deliver for the people of the country. But the court rulings are, of course, the total lower limit. We have to abide by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u108	Thank you, Mrs Kaag. Then I'll give the floor... oh, look at that. You need to stand still for a moment, Mrs Kaag. I saw Mr Omtzigt run the fastest, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u109	Besides the booze and the pillows, you could also talk about the contents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u110	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u111	I would like to know whether there have been two meetings at the formation table. I would like to point out that in the last six months some people have been with an informant 50 times and I have been 0 times myself, so I'm actually curious what happened there. The first thing I want to know is whether agreements have been made in advance on medical-ethical matters, because there seemed to be some confusion between the statements of the informant and the group of the Christian Union. So are things like completed life and things that regulate embryos released or not, or haven't they been agreed on yet? Have agreements been made or intentions expressed between the parties on a new governance culture? That is what they have been able to talk about for about six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u112	Firstly, no agreement has been reached on medical-ethical issues. You do know the document on main lines of D66 and VVD. As far as D66 is concerned, some of these issues must remain free, precisely because of the personal weighting that each Member of Parliament must be able to make, and in the interests of the social debate. That's one. Secondly, as far as the intentions on governance culture are concerned, we often talk about them, but I think we need to go about what they mean and how we want to implement them. It is often discussed in different rounds. I think that, if I may quote him, Mr Remkes has said to all of us that it seems as if everyone comes up with their own variation of the concept of 'culture of governance'. That already indicates that we have to spend a lot more time on this, I fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u113	I also had a question about the content. It's about the medical-ethical issues. I am very glad that Mrs Kaag says: "That must be up to the Chamber. He must be able to speak about this freely. Each Member must be able to make his own assessment." The question is, of course, as follows. If a law is passed here, the cabinet must also sign it. Does Mrs Kaag believe that if an initiative law is passed here, the cabinet should sign it so that it can enter directly? Otherwise, we'd have another four years of standstill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u114	I would like to put a very enlightening question to Mr Klaver. Is he talking about an initiative law in the medical-ethical field, for example embryo selection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u115	That's right. I call embryo selection, the consultation period for abortion, completed life. Imagine one of those laws reaching a majority. Then there must be a countersignation from the cabinet. If that doesn't happen, it won't go into law. Then we'd have four years of standstill. I was curious to see how Mrs Kaag looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u116	I think the stakes of D66 are clear. We also want progress, of course. I refer to the delays that have been made. Silence actually means decline when you look at developments, especially in the field of many of the medical sciences. I think it is important that a law should also be implemented if it has been adopted. But I do not want to anticipate it, because we are talking about the theoretical case of a possible legislative initiative without details. But the question of principle is about an adopted initiative path. Yes, that must be implemented. That's the D66 bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u117	Thank you, I'm glad to hear that. This is really very important. It is less theoretical than I am now proposing, because there are already a number of such initiatives, including from both of our parties with which we are here in the Chamber. I don't know if that's what majorities are for. That's gotta be real. That is also the beauty of this work and of the representatives of the people. But I welcome the answer that D66 believes that a cabinet should counter-sign an initiative law if it is passed, so that it can actually go into it and we will not stop for four more years on all these important issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u118	Thank you, Mrs Kaag. I would like to inform the Chamber that the two documents will be distributed shortly following Mr Klaver's request for information. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u119	Mr. Chairman. It's unbelievable, but it's true. Nine months after the resignation of the cabinet of VVD, D66, CDA and Christian Union because of the biggest scandal of this century, the supplement scandal, these same parties are now going to renegotiate a new cabinet. It is as if nothing has happened, as if they have never resigned because of the unprecedented administrative wretchedness and indescribable suffering caused by tens of thousands of innocent families under their responsibility. Mr. Chairman. That's so fake and so wrong that it's hard to comprehend. It's so much badness together. I told you before: Rutte, Kaag, Hoekstra and Segers spit the voter right in the face. They shamelessly fake that they want to go on with each other in the national interest. But the reality is, of course, that they are terrified of elections. In the last poll of Maurice de Hond, last Sunday, D66 and the CDA together lost 17 seats compared to the March elections. Do you think it's crazy? While the victims of the surcharge scandal are still waiting for their money, we read that Wopke Hoekstra is sneaking around with his posh Minerva friends playing tens of thousands of euros in the Caribbean tax paradise of the Virgin Islands. And now they're scared of their own ass, afraid of the voter, afraid of elections, Sigrid Kaag ahead. It is almost the liberal poison arrow of politics The Hague, the prima donna of the Hague's witch kettle, with its so-called "new leadership." Let's see what that "new leadership" of Mrs Kaag has brought us in the meantime. First of all, total unreliability. After Rutte's lies, she, together with Hoekstra, filed a motion of censure against Rutte on April 1st and felt he should quit. "This is where we part ways," she said. Still, she's moving on with him now. Mrs Kaag then shunned the Christian Union by comparing that party with a rusty car that has long since had its "completed life." She preferred something more progressive. Yet now she continues with the Christian Union. And then she planted six knives in Rutte's back at the Schoo-lecture by calling him a flat zipper without vision. And not long after it was the D66 chamber member Sjoerdsma who, together with two D66 officers, threw the filthy gossip into the world that VVD informer Remkes was as drunk as a strawberry during the formation negotiations. They didn't make that up. That Remkes may or may not have consumed much or little alcohol, they may only have heard of Kaag or Jetten. Mr. Chairman. What evil, what falsehood. It seems as if Mrs Kaag is suffering from some sort of politics Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, some kind of compulsion disorder to screaming and false behaviour. It is incomprehensible and irresponsible for such a person to become a deputy prime minister in the near future. Mr. Chairman. If the Rutte IV cabinet, the Rutte/Kaag cabinet, with the CDA and the Christian Union as sidecars, indeed, then that is bad news for the Netherlands. Then we will have even more climate change, more European Union, more QR codes and more Islamic immigrants, including more terrorists. Then we'll get Rutte and Kaag back. So nothing changes at all. Then nothing changes in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I promise them one thing. The PVV will do everything from the first day that such a cabinet is in place, if it comes up, to drop them as quickly as possible, so that we finally get new elections. The sooner Rutte and Kaag disappear from the political scene, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u120	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I give the floor to Mr Hoekstra of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna let the nuance of a moment's notice work on me. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Remkes very much for his knowledge, skill and enormous energy. I got to know him as a sober Groninger with Limburg's joie de vivre. That's two things that make me, especially in combination...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u122	Hilarity everywhere, but at least I see the informant laughing himself. That is how I experienced it, and I wanted to say that these two characteristics, especially in combination, have appealed to me very much. To be honest, the hilarity is much bigger than I intended, but that's the way it goes sometimes. Mr. Chairman. In recent months, many people in this country have rightly shown that they had little understanding, and have become less and less understanding, for the time we have taken to start formation at all. I also think they showed that to all of us personally. As far as I'm concerned, they're right about that. They are absolutely right, and I think that is something that we should all be concerned about, including the CDA and myself personally. It is, as Mrs Hermans and Mrs Kaag have just said, in this very difficult political landscape, it is ultimately also the question of whether you are prepared to take responsibility. The CDA is a party that certainly didn't win the elections, and Mr Wilders pointed out that it hasn't necessarily improved in the polls since then. For us, this means that we have had to accept and acknowledge that this result is such that not participating makes it much more complicated. That is why we have said that we are taking on this responsibility and we are going to discuss the substance with the other three parties in the coming months. Mr. Chairman. We have all had our mouths full of that content for a long time. It is therefore also time, in those coming months, to take action with each other and, of course, to defend it here in the Chamber. Of course, Mr Omtzigt just referred to the new administrative culture, in which, in my view, we have taken steps, but there is still a lot to be done, especially in the next cabinet. I also very much look forward to more dualism and a better debate with the House of Representatives, including constructive cooperation with all the opposition parties who feel called upon to do so. I want to look more at trust in each other and less at the delusion of the day. This new culture of governance does not come on its own. That is something we all know how to bring or not to bring. In addition, you would almost forget there are very big questions about the content for the new cabinet. Think of the housing crisis, for example. As far as the CDA and I are concerned, instead of talking about the housing market, we should just talk about housing again. It is a central task of the government which we must do more at greater speed. It is a question of climate change, which calls for firm government policy, so that our children also have a green future. As far as I am concerned, this issue cannot be separated from a green economy with a sustainable earning capacity. It is about the future of our children, and we must ensure that we do it properly in the financial sense after the corona crisis. We must ensure that taxes are distributed fairly, that care for all Dutch people remains affordable and that we make improvements in education. We need to stop the loan system so that everyone, regardless of what their parents earn, can follow the training that suits him or her. And we need to make sure that the undermining, which causes enormous disruption in our neighbourhoods, neighbourhoods and cities, is dealt with nail-hard, with attention to prevention and training, but also by simply going after the many criminals who enrich themselves. Mr. Chairman. So we've got work to do. I very much look forward to that. I would just like to highlight that I very much support the presentation of both informators. I have experienced Mr Koolmees as an extremely capable and capable colleague, and I have just indicated that Mr Remkes is a hors catégorie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u123	Thank you, Mr. Hoekstra. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I brought you a piece of paper. You're not quite used to that from me, but I have quite a long list: Minister Ollongren, flapping her papers; Rutte's lies about a position elsewhere for a critical MP; a motion of censure adopted; a motion of censure supported by the opposition as a whole; Van Veldhoven and Van Nieuwenhuizen, who leave the cabinet because they consider another job more important; Broekers-Knol, who, without the knowledge of the Chamber, adjusts the asylum policy and then reverses it; Members of parliament who are thus removed from the cabinet team while they are still members of parliament, after which the state's law needs to be amended because this is undesirable; conversations along the lines of content, which turned out to be about the imagery and who had said what in the newspaper; Kaag and Bijleveld, who quit because they failed with the evacuations in Afghanistan; Keijzer, who in the newspaper criticizes the coronapas and is then dismissed; Grapperhaus, who misinformed the Chamber about the fraud; Kaag's informant, spreading ugly gossip about the use of the informant's drink; Van Huffelen, who says that the handling of the surcharge scandal will take a very long time; the senior officer at the Tax Office, who appears not to have spoken the truth under oath; Broekers-Knol, who speaks of 100,000 Afghans coming to the Netherlands and who then regrets the fuss about her own statements; Hoekstra, who invested in a tax haven, didn't mention it when he was a senator and appeared to do so before his retirement. Mr. Chairman. I'm sure I'll forget a lot too. I was never such a supporter of people who said "maybe there should only be some kind of business cabinet with capable people from outside," but to be honest, I start with the mess that makes the outgoing cabinet of it, to understand more and more where that comes from. Because this list isn't from the entire cabinet period. No, it's from the time after the election, from the last six months. We had Mrs Kaag, who promised new leadership and Mark Rutte, who had radical ideas about the new governance culture. We can see what's going to happen... nothing at all. And that's sad. It is especially sad that nothing happens to the big problems. The housing shortage is not being addressed. Meanwhile, the people from the Tweebos neighborhood are being chased out of their own homes. An affordable house is hardly to be found anymore. It's not gonna happen. There are major shortages in care and the police. There is a shortage of teachers, there are overcrowded classes and too few colleagues. It's not gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. There is enormous economic growth. But as the number of millionaires increases, economic growth does not go to the people in professions that we now see as crucial, to name but a few. Mr. Hoekstra mentioned the debt system. It still exists. There's still no basic scholarship. The minimum wage has still not been raised. The parents, the families affected by the surcharge scandal, just had to hear on TV again this weekend that according to the Secretary of State, it will take a very long time before their problems are solved. There are the people in Groningen who experienced earthquakes again yesterday and are still in their broken house, waiting for compensation. Mr. Chairman. As I said in the previous formation debate, there will be a Rutte IV. That's where they're heading. A reboot of Rutte III, II and I. That Rutte IV cabinet will not put an end to an economic system which only works for the individual and which has nothing to do with the working class in the Netherlands. We will not accept this. You won't be surprised. We will oppose this in the Chamber and we will also come up with alternatives. We'll fight that battle outside the Chamber, too. We will build and support social movements, with the people of the protest for, indeed, a decent housing. With the students, who fight for the abolition of the debt system and for a decent basic grant. With the parents and families affected by the supplement scandal, against institutionalized distrust in the government and for a fair government. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kaag said in her explanatory statement that she is not charmed by the option of new elections, because that might be what populists would be up to. Well, Mrs Kaag, these new elections are going to take place: in six months time there will be local elections for the municipal councils. City for city and village for village can deal with the ruins that make this missionary cabinet. We will take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u125	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u126	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I also appreciate the commitment and final report by Johan Remkes. Under a rather complicated political stelnte he was willing to act as an informant. I experienced the two conversations I had with him as pleasant, open and constructive. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. The past six months have actually been a lost six months. Well considered, it wasn't a six-month standstill, it was a decline. Because what has become of the intentions for a new governance culture? Actually, little bar. This becomes painfully clear when we look at the situation with the people who have fallen victim to the child care allowance affair. People have to wait endlessly for their justice to be done, and investigations and documents are not made public, late or only after much pressure from the Chamber and investigative journalists. This promises little good for the future, while asking for a robust awareness of what is right and necessary to strengthen our rule of law and our democracy. The problems facing our country have not been reduced either. The Labour Party is therefore going to make proposals in the coming weeks to change that, because change is needed. The housing crisis must be resolved, the climate crisis must be resolved and growing inequality must be stopped. Everyone must have equal opportunities. These proposals will be submitted to the budgets. Mr. Chairman. Over the past six months, I have always stressed that the Netherlands needs a new cabinet. We believe that it is a right step to start substantive discussions in order to form a majority coalition. The Labour Party does have concerns about the position of the informant, Mr Koolmees. I have just said that in my interruption to Mrs Kaag. Again, these concerns are not about him as a person, but precisely because there are important tasks to be carried out in the coming months in Social Affairs and Employment. The pension agreement needs to be worked out. I get reports from people who are worried about their retirement every day, just like many of my colleagues. Mr. Chairman. At the start of the Rutte III cabinet, there is now no further role for the Labour Party. We have shown our willingness to participate in coalition discussions to see if we could achieve the maximum for the voters of the Labour Party. Of course, we are not going to do that as side wheels of a future Rutte cabinet with other parties at the wheel. Let me be clear: the Labour Party will not join these four parties at a later stage and we will not deliver any directors either. It is now up to the four negotiating parties to reach a coalition agreement and to gather majorities for it in consultation with the States-General. As a serious opposition party, we are entering into the debate with the cabinet to be formed, and I assume that we will make alternative proposals, because change is really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u127	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u128	Mr. Chairman. I think there is no one in this Chamber, or at least very few people, who thought last week that we would have a debate today on the idea that the old coalition would continue. I certainly don't. It is not my desired coalition either, but I would like to congratulate Mr Remkes. I had the pleasure of joining the negotiations last week. I thought there was a slight exaggeration about what things he was capable of, but it deserves a compliment that he somehow managed to get the old coalition to start over. I still don't know how he did this, and I'm still fucked. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that there is finally going to be a substantive discussion. It's not the coalition we had in mind. I regret that VVD and CDA have continued to refuse to really negotiate the content. But it is as it is, and these parties are now going to talk to each other. I do have some concerns, actually three. The first concern has to do with the fact that this cabinet has resigned because of the surcharge scandal. I thought it was a little too easy to get over that, even in the debate with Mrs Hermans. People have been destroyed by the government. They feel abandoned by the last cabinet, by that coalition. But that cabinet continues, even though it has resigned. I do not think that you can easily get past that, because it really does something with people's confidence in politics, namely: you can do whatever you want here, it remains without consequences. It is too easy to say: this is the election result. Because there are a lot of combinations possible, much more than this. My second concern is content. There is talk of the great challenges of our time. Guess what? This has been the case for the past ten years and also for the past four years. Nitrogen was a big problem two and a half years ago. A great man, even bigger than I thought he was then, wrote a report on that. He's sitting here on my left. But the cabinet didn't do anything about it. The coalition didn't figure that out. That problem has not been addressed. And yes, an ambitious climate law has been passed. That was an initiative law from the Lower House. I greatly appreciate the fact that we have been able to work together as a coalition and opposition to that law. But these objectives have not been met. During the past cabinet period more money has been spent on private education in the Netherlands and the opportunity inequality has increased. My question is whether Mr Remkes has made sure of this. There has been no progress on all these issues in recent years or not enough. Things haven't been handled. Why is Mr Remkes now confident that this will happen now? Thirdly, we are dealing with medical-ethical issues. I was just talking about that. I find it incredibly important that they are a matter of the Chamber. I think it is important not to agree on this in a government agreement. I believe that everyone here, every MP, has the right to decide this kind of thing about life and death. That's more than ever part of the new governance culture, but I've always thought it fit with this Chamber. And if a law is passed in the Lower House, I think it is important that a cabinet also signs that law, so that it can be implemented. I would like to know from Mr Remkes whether he has asked for this. I do not want to hear so much about agreements, but I want to know if he has asked for them, because this can potentially make the cabinet unstable. And if there's one thing we can't use, then after seven months, it's an unstable cabinet that's already on one leg before it starts. So I'd like a clear answer to that. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. There's not much more to say about it. Together with the Labour Party, we were prepared to negotiate a majority cabinet, despite everything that has happened. I would also like to be absolutely clear here: we are not going to tolerate a Rutte III cabinet as it is now being compiled. We are not going to make any agreements about this beforehand, but we are waiting for the cabinet's proposals to come to the Chamber. We are in favour of what we are in favour of. What we are against, we are against. Where we can make proposals better, we will come up with alternatives. And where proposals need to be stopped, I'll see you here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u129	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u130	Thank you, Mr President. The big question is how can the same government suddenly be innovative? What the hell are we supposed to base that trust on? Mr. Chairman. That is not only the question that the Party for Animals raises, but also the victims of the surcharge scandal, who rightly say: it seems as if The Hague has forgotten what this whole political crisis has started. What should we trust when we see that, when it finally came up, the cabinet resigned, but then they continued? And we now see that the Secretary of State, who is to help these people, has exactly the same reflexes as those which led to the resignation, namely to cover up and cover up that was lied under oath. Mr. Chairman. Parties who say here "we have to do these people justice" and "we have to do everything we can to alleviate the suffering" cannot possibly keep their ears shut for what these people say, namely that it just hurts them that this coalition would go on again, with VVD leader Mark Rutte. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has held Rutte as leader of the group, as foreman for the new cabinet. That's the man who lied to the Chamber, not once, not twice, but many times. What then should we trust that the next cabinet will deal properly with the state-of-the-art situation? This cabinet has not only caused the nitrogen crisis, causing our nature to deteriorate dramatically, farmers have been caught in an ever-increasing bottleneck and the whole country is sort of locked up... The deputy in the province of Gelderland says: I would like to build, but 70% of what we want, simply cannot, because of nitrogen. It is not the case that this cabinet has done its utmost to solve these problems and that it has unfortunately failed. No, a committee had to be appointed, and then that committee came up with a report, and that is not being carried out. And now we have to be confident that the big problems facing the Netherlands will be solved if the existing coalition continues. Mr. Chairman. I don't think people in the Netherlands have been helped with this. I think that the big problem we face is not that parties could not negotiate a new cabinet, but that the deep problem is that we cannot manage, with these people, to form a cabinet in which the Netherlands can trust, to form a cabinet that knows by itself what its job is, regardless of political colour. This means that the rule of law is the lower limit to which you must abide. The past cabinet was deeply underneath that, with the Urgenda statements, the nitrogen statements and the incredible surcharge scandal. And that same cabinet wants to continue, apparently without any reflection. My question to the informant is to thank you for your work, which is why it has taken place: has this reflection taken place so that there could be a start so that some confidence could grow? I don't think so. We see the missionary cabinet doing exactly the same things as the missionary cabinet. And people are allowed to remain left with the problems they're dealing with right now. The Party for Animals strongly opposes the launch of Rutte III. If there is, you will hear from us in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u131	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u132	Madam President. An American friend of mine once clearly explained the difference between voters here in the Netherlands and voters in the United States, and those elected in the United States and those elected here in the Netherlands. He told me that as an American voter, sometimes he had to hurt himself. He was a Republican registered and then had the choice between a Democrat and a Republican. He didn't vote for Trump. His choice was not painless; he should have faced some violence with it. But as an elected person, after elections in the United States, you have a clear mandate: the winner takes all. The chosen person can then get started with his own program. In the Netherlands, he said, voters have it much easier. There's always a party somewhere near you, there's always a candidate who looks very much like you or who at least has values and beliefs that appeal to you, and you can choose from that. The difficult work is then up to the chosen one. No one gets a clear mandate here. And every chosen one, if he really wants to achieve something, has to work with others. That's hard work, that's hard, but if you really want to work on your ideals, there's nothing else to be done. That difficult work is what must finally begin now, more than six months after the elections. On behalf of the Christian Union Group, I would like to put my cards on the table. It was not a strong wish of our group to negotiate a new coalition, but last week the informant, in his own way, called upon us to participate in these negotiations in vain after six months. Because we have always said that we do not want to be a final blockade, we are entering into these negotiations. Talks about a new cabinet are, as far as we are concerned, talks about a serviceable and solution-oriented government, which does justice to people, to victims of the surcharge affair, to people in Groningen, to people who really need it from that government, to people we have abandoned. Talks about a new cabinet are, in our opinion, talks about a society with less me and more us, about a governance culture that is transparent and honest, with open relations between opposition and coalition. Madam President. The Netherlands is a beautiful country, but especially for people with whom the best is going and less for people who are in the corner where the hits take place. That is why, as far as we are concerned, a discussion about a new cabinet is also a discussion about affordable housing, more security in the labour market, a sustainable, decent economy, less debt, less poverty, less homelessness, less loneliness, less addiction. It's a conversation about better care for Creation, for the climate, for each other, for vulnerable lives, for our elderly, for migrants. Whether they're knocking on our door because of our freedom or because of work, whether we can let them in or not, they're fellow human beings who deserve humane treatment. Mr. Chairman. The difficult work is now beginning, especially for the four groups that are ready to negotiate. Or it's gonna work out, but we're gonna do our best. What I sincerely hope is that the great challenges and dilemmas facing us as Dutch electors will be lived through throughout the Chamber, and that a shared responsibility will be felt among us to make this country even more beautiful, fairer and sustainable. For that, you have to work together, including between opposition and coalition. My question to the informant, whom I would like to thank for his work, is whether the constructive commitment he writes about is also open to groups that were not in the House last Wednesday. I hope so. The other way around, the informant asked us a question. During his press conference he asked whether we are here in The Hague focused on destroying or building up. I hope that we will allow that question to work on us for a moment and then make the convinced choice to start building up. As a Christian Union Group, we are going to put our shoulders on that. We have every confidence in the informers who are going to lead that process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u133	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr Klaver, then Mrs Ouwehand and then Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u134	I also have a question for you on the medical-ethical issues. I ask this because I am concerned with the stability of a new cabinet. I want to make sure that there's a cabinet there that can handle these big challenges that we need for years. My question is this. Imagine that here in the Lower House... there are a number of own-initiative laws, including those of my group. I have good hope that these are free issues, including for a new cabinet, which we can discuss. If they are adopted, they must be counter-signed, so they must also be signed by the cabinet. Does Mr Segers think it is part of this new administrative culture that a law passed in the Chamber is signed by a cabinet with its ministers in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u135	The only thing I'm going with to the negotiating table is my own election programme and my own conviction. We are going to talk about this and we are going to try to realize it as much as possible. There are always elements in a program that make you vulnerable as a party, especially as a smaller party. This applies, for example, to Mr Klaver's migration policy. This is also a matter of life and death, of humanity, of which he said four years ago: there is a moral limit and I want to guard it. I can easily imagine that it would be difficult for him to say: in a Chamber where perhaps a majority really has a different view, I could be vulnerable to that. That's what I want to talk to you about. So I'm gonna talk about that. I'm also going to talk about my vulnerability and positions where I'm a small minority. Or we're gonna get out, we're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u136	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u137	I understand. I'm not getting ahead of myself. I understand that you are going to talk about this and that you are going to indicate what you want and what you do not want. I had a very specific question. It's a question I've also asked the informant to see if he's informed about it. After all, if you are going to sit in a cabinet and you refuse to sign it, because you do not accept that law, then we have a cabinet crisis. After seven months of not talking to each other, negotiations are now under way. What I don't want is for there to be a cabinet with which we are in a cabinet crisis in no time. That's why I'm asking for a little more certainty and I was very specific. I repeat the question again. If the Christian Union comes into the new cabinet and adopts a majority in the Chamber such a law that we are talking about, is Mr Segers prepared to have it signed by the cabinet in which he sits, without the cabinet falling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u138	It now sounds as if Mr Klaver has only one wish, namely that the next cabinet consisting of these four parties should be perfect for the four years and that it should be very stable. That's what it sounds like. But what's behind that, of course, is that he's pushing right now at a point where there are big differences about it. That's what we need to talk about. These are differences that can make me, which make my party potentially vulnerable, like GroenLinks with the Christian Union, vulnerable when it comes to migration and a humane asylum policy. Of course you're talking about that and of course you're going to talk about different scenarios. How do you deal with that? Then you cannot say in advance: "Everything is a free matter." You can't just say, "Nothing is a free matter, we're gonna shut everything down." You can't say that. We're gonna talk. We're gonna talk about our ideals. We're gonna talk to get out of it, and we're gonna see how far we get.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u139	Just for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u140	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u141	Oh, yeah, it's final. I understand this setup. If negotiations had taken place immediately after the elections, I would have understood that completely: that is just at the negotiating table. But we're six months away now. Then I want to know whether the combination that is going to negotiate or whether the informant has scanned whether this is a stable cabinet. I'm dead serious about the four years a cabinet has to complete. I believe that, with all the challenges that lie ahead and with all the bullshit of the past few months, there should be a cabinet that can focus on the major challenges. That is why I have a very precise question, not about how the Chamber behaves, but about how the cabinet team behaves. If something needs to be signed, does that mean a cabinet crisis or not? I note that I am not getting an answer to that, and I am very concerned about the stability of a future cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u142	Yes, you may have some serious concerns about that, but it will have to turn out to be real. If the negotiations succeed, if you get out, if there's a government statement here that you're debating, then you can ask all the critical questions and get through all the scenarios. But there's only one way to find out if it's gonna work: by pushing and talking. That's the only way it works. That is what four parties are finally ready to do after six months with a lot of hassle, of which we are all prepared to do. The only answer I can give is the answer we are going to find at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u143	My question is: can we assume that something will actually change? I'll just call nitrogen the biggest case. It was a Christian Union executive who was responsible for that. There was a judge's ruling. There was an approach. Top officials and all the lawyers are now saying: it's actually not good. I'd really like to know what happened there. Can Mr Segers tell you that? I think that if you do not reflect on that, there is no hope of real change in a new cabinet either. How did it happen that there was a nitrogen approach that still doesn't comply with the judge's ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u144	That nothing has been done is not entirely my perception. That is not the perception of a number of other parties either. We talked about that for hours and hours. There's a law here that couldn't get your support in the end, but it could get the support of a majority of the Chamber. First steps have been taken. It's obvious it's not enough. The fact that it is one of the major challenges for a new cabinet is also thinking about housing, but also think about a fair distribution of the scarcity of space, land and clean air. That's what we're gonna talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u145	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u146	I didn't say nothing was done. I said, what happened in the end still doesn't comply with the judge's ruling. I repeat my point. I ask that, because the Netherlands can count on you being in the cabinet to do what the rule of law requires of you, regardless of your political colour. That didn't happen in the case of nitrogen. I would like to know if my impression is true that it was just dirty political negotiations, that the whole cabinet does not care what the judge said, because the VVD did not want anything with the cars and the farmers, and that was Rutte III's behaviour. If you don't reflect on that and if you don't share with us that it was indeed so, that it was a vulgar handshake, that it was secondary what the judge thought, that it was more important that there was a deal and that the rustling was a rule, then how can we trust that the next cabinet will make those difficult decisions? I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u147	I do find it interesting to hear such a fervent plea for the rule of law from a party which is then maintained as a corona pass, standing on the doorstep of a restaurant for days to protest and say that it is all wrong. It seems that the rule of law doesn't apply for a while. The rule of law applies to all of us, whether we like it or not. The Council of State's ruling on nitrogen was a very far-reaching one. It was incredibly intense. It immediately led to very long, very profound, profound discussions within the coalition. They led to legislation, which we now see is not enough. More must be done, but it must be just. It's gotta be fair. It's affecting businesses. It becomes property of people. It gets emotional. It's a very big subject. Then I find it so easy to crawl forward here as a party that is even bigger than my party and very easy to say: you are doing nothing; it is all terrible and scandalous. Then I put on my overalls, I put on a cap and I'm going to try on our village house, which we have to maintain together, give me a lick of paint again and put me back in a bit for that. I'd say join us. Put on some overalls, put on a helmet and join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u148	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen. No, everyone has six interruptions. This was part of the debate. I also see doubts in the Chamber. Everyone has six interruptions. Mrs. Van der Plas still has an interruption. No, Mrs. Ouwehand. Everyone really has six interruptions. It's just part of the debate. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u149	I was just curious when it would be the end of the story for the Christian Union in negotiating a new cabinet. I know the medical-ethical issues are tough negotiations. If you do not get out and then it is over, does Mr Segers think that it should simply be ready and that there should be new elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u150	So, what gloomyness. So I actually have to put all my cards on the table and indicate what the red line is for me. I don't think it's entirely in my best interest to say that now, so I'm not going to do that either. I'm going to try to achieve as much of my ideals as possible. On parts they are similar to other parties and sometimes they are opposite each other. That's gonna be a complicated puzzle. Can you get out? That's the big question. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u151	Finally, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u152	In my opinion, this does not mean that you suddenly have to put all your cards on the table, because you have often discussed medical-ethical issues and that sort of thing in public, so that is no secret. For me, the most important question is: if these negotiations do not succeed, because that option is simply there. Is it true that the Christian Union says "we will stop and then it is time for new elections"? That was actually my next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u153	I think that's all way too premature. It's not so much about my fear of where I'm losing, but about my hope for where we can win and work towards a serviceable, solution-oriented government that does justice to people. We have major challenges that we face now. We can palate for another six months forever and never get anywhere. Now there are four parties pulling their hands together and saying, "You know what, we really have big differences, but we also have similarities. That's where we'll find each other. We're going to give this country a push and we're going to see if we can make it nicer and better." That's where my hope is. All sorts of fears and fears that I have now and then, I try to push away as much as possible. I'm really trying to focus on the hope that I have most of all now. Mrs. Ouwehand is still not gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u154	She's still not gone. I see it. Mrs. Ouwehand, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u155	It's good use that you get to make a personal statement. I'd love to. Mr Segers blames me for taking the rule of law seriously and then again. I'd really like to take that impression away. I tweeted about a restaurant that refused to maintain the coronapas. But that's on your own account. You can disobey the bourgeois. I said, "You'll suffer the consequences of that yourself." I have spoken out actively against Holocaust equations. I do not support that protest in front of those doors at all. It would be a credit to Mr Segers if he did not give that impression here in the Chamber either. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u156	It's been noted. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Simons. Sorry, Mr Segers. Mrs Simons van Bij1 also has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u157	I am very impressed by the hope expressed by Mr Segers: the hope that things will be better, the hope that we will be able to work on the reconstruction of this country, the hope that we will be able to tackle the housing crisis, the hope that it will all work out. On what basis, I wonder with Mrs Ouwehand. The answer has not yet been forthcoming. How should the Netherlands, how should this Chamber, how should we have faith in exactly the same people?The Christian Union was also one of the parties in the previous cabinet, the Demissionary Cabinet, which is responsible for the mess we are in at the moment? What are we supposed to base this trust on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u158	I find it far too gloomy to talk about the Netherlands as a country of nothing but ruins. I have spoken about a Netherlands that is very good for people with whom it is going well, who can come well, but in which too many people are still lagging behind. That's what I'm worried about. I am concerned about affordable housing and a fair distribution of wealth. So there are real issues for which we really need to make it fairer and better. What is my hope based on? My hope is based on trust. That goes for almost everyone in this room. Everyone here stands up in the morning with only one will: make the Netherlands a little more beautiful. That goes right through all the parties. I know my colleagues longer than I do today. I know you a little bit by now. We have political differences, but there is a shared passion for the Netherlands. That doesn't always come out right. I'll be the one to blame myself for that, too. I will not always put it mildly myself, but I know that most people have chosen this profession because they have a heart for the Netherlands. I can taste that not only in these four parties, but also in many more parties. So I'm really not going along with your cynicism that it's nothing and it can't be anything. We're gonna have to make it work, and I'm really gonna do the best I can for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u159	That will has been with these 150 people lately. There was also that will among the parties that were part of the missionary or missionary cabinet. We have a problem in the housing market that affects two to three generations. Those people are now also watching and thinking: if I have to count on the same club people who have been getting up fresh and happy every day for the last four years and thought "we're gonna make it better," that's a vain hope. I share a characteristic with Mr Segers: I am by nature also a positive person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u160	That didn't sound like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u161	Mrs Simons has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u162	You'll be surprised. But I still think that the Dutch citizen needs something more than "there are 150 people there who stand up every day with a positive mind." The facts speak for themselves. We had a cabinet that, no matter how you turn it, is responsible for the greatest government scandal in our parliamentary history. We can say with certainty that it will take a few generations for this mess to be solved. We have a housing crisis that affects the next two or three generations. We've got problems in care. I don't have to repeat it all here. Everyone here in this Chamber and especially the people at home, because they live the consequences, know what time it is. I would like to ask Mr Segers where we are all talking about 17 million Dutch people, not only the club with which things are going well and which has become richer during the crisis, but also the ordinary Dutch people who have to rely on that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u163	I know several victims of the supplemental affair. My colleague Don Ceder, who is standing in the back of the room, has assisted several of them in his previous life as a lawyer. I know a lot more people who can't get an affordable house. I know a lot more people who go from job to job and are underpaid. Suppose I go to them and say, "We've had a lot of trouble over the last six months. I was called in and I had the chance to do something for you, but the mess was too big, it was too complicated. We were dealing with the same parties, but I found it a bit difficult, so I ran away." I think I'd feel worse and I'd come home with a worse story than when I went to them and say, "Look, I've done everything I could. Maybe not everything works out, but I've done everything I could, with my best knowledge and best skills." That's why I've gone into politics, and that's why I'm going to work now. Let's see if we can get out. That's the only way I can face them. You can't do that by running away now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u164	That is not the answer to the question, unless the answer to the question on which we must base our hopes is that Mr Segers is once again prepared to join a cabinet. It's not an answer to the question. I did not ask Mr Segers why he felt the need to do so. Nor have I asked Mr Segers how many parents he knows. Nor have I asked Mr Segers what he says to his acquaintances when they lose hope. Unless the answer is that Mr Segers is the hope. I would like an answer to the question: where are we here with 150's and 17 million people in the Netherlands hoping that exactly the same people are going to do it with exactly the same parties, but we are going to do it in the light of the election results and solve all those problems for which they were already responsible when they got up with fresh courage in the morning and thought 'we're going back to it'? What's the big difference? What are we supposed to make of this hope? What am I supposed to say to the people who ask me that question, except: but now Segers is going against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u165	I am going against it, but the only thing I can finally convince them with is results and not fine words. You have to work really hard for results, and I'm gonna do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u166	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to American cabaret Jay Leno, politics is nothing but show business for ugly people. Well, show business is for sure. It is one big play in which actors play their roles: anger, responsibility, shock, disgust we often hear, doubt, and so on. Now the opposition is expected to be angry, that it is betrayal to the voters that the coalition parties that are already there continue with a new cabinet. And of course, that was just gonna happen. After the election results of March, it was just going to happen that this coalition continued. That made perfect sense. It's also very funny to see what happens here when you just see what's going on. Because in our country, we're dealing with a cartel, just like in the rest of the world. In most Western countries, there's a cartel like that. It may seem as if there are different parties, it may seem as if there is a 'frail election battle' and it may seem grand and compelling, that it is about fundamental objections and all those things, but it is all appearance. It is show business for ugly people, because on the main lines they all agree with each other. Whether you get VVD and CDA with the PvdA or D66 and VVD with GroenLinks or PvdA and CDA with the Christian Union, it doesn't matter, except for their personal career path, for the pikorde in their own corridors, for their status and for their resume. And for policy, for the country? They are all in favour of spending hundreds of billions on climate policy. They are all in favour of the continuation of mass immigration, for the inclusion of the Netherlands in a European superstate, for all that wokness and lgbtqi+ identity policy, for saying sorry for our beautiful past. International law, regime change in the Middle East, arguing with Russia, phasing out cash and of course vaccination programs, lockdowns and QR codes. That is why the VVD also filed the Climate Act together with GroenLinks. That is why the CDA says that we need the European Union to implement climate policy. That's why Mark Rutte has been breaking every immigration record for ten years. It is not that they really want something else, but that they are forced into this policy by coalition formation. No, they want this policy and through the theater game they make people believe it's actually different. They maintain the illusion of choice. And the tragedy is that a lot of people still don't see this. Let me give you an example. Most people in the Netherlands do not want mass immigration and yet the vast majority of people in our country vote on parties that do. Most people don't want to spend 1,000 billion on climate policy, and yet they vote for parties that do. Maurice de Dog last week investigated to what extent people can make a correct assessment of the risk of corona for unvaccinated people. The correct answer is that less than 1% of unvaccinated people end up in hospital after receiving corona. However, 60% of the CDA voters believed that a third of those people would end up in the hospital. 50% of the PvdA voters, 40% of the VVDs and a quarter of the D66s believed that. It suggests that people have been completely misinformed. It is the result of structural disinformation in traditional media. For 600 days, the newspapers were full of the most dramatic headlines about corona, giving people in the Netherlands the idea that they were completely wrong about the dangers of this virus. That's no different with this formation. Again, the parliamentary press has been acting like something very important has been happening for seven months, as if there were big differences between VVD and D66, as if something were going to change when the PvdA is participating instead of the Christian Union. That's when all these parties just agree. That's what people need to realize. That's what the press should write down. Only when that false consciousness is cast away can something change in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u168	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u169	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, thanks to Mr Remkes for his work. We hear things will be different: a new start, a new direction. But that won't feel that way for many Dutch people. The premium affair, the housing crisis, the nitrogen crisis: they are crises that have only grown in recent years. Mr. Chairman. Of course, after six and a half months, it is a good thing that parties finally start negotiating. But it is the four parties that have shown too little in recent years. That while the Netherlands is longing for ambitious proposals to tackle the many crises. Mr. Chairman. Because there is already a great deal of mistrust about this combination of parties, we expect them to present unprecedentedly ambitious proposals to restore that confidence. We will therefore assess the merits of any forthcoming cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Tens of billions will soon be available to tackle climate and nitrogen. That's good. But how is this money going to be spent? It's a one-time thing. Are the negotiating parties making structural improvements, so that the Netherlands gets the feeling of being able to build on politics again? Are the parties looking ahead to 2040? How do we ensure that everyone is taken into account, that social inequality is addressed, that the rule of law is strengthened, that digitalisation and innovation are invested, that the housing crisis is addressed and that education is made accessible to all? Mr. Chairman. In the report by informant Remkes, we read that there is a need for a brief government agreement. That's been said before. But it hasn't worked out yet. I would therefore ask the negotiating parties to take the following with them. Let us not forget the big words about the new governance culture of the last six months, as power for a majority lies ahead. Let us really have the big debates in this Chamber. We have seen it many times: once parties join a coalition of government, they become hesitant about overstated political profiling. Major oppositions between parties are negotiated behind the scenes in order to avoid hassle. This political culture is crippling for MPs of the coalition and for MPs outside the coalition. The voter does not feel represented because the debate is no longer taking place. I would therefore ask the informant: how does he intend to prevent a detailed government agreement being reached? And how does he look at the role of party leaders in this? Isn't it better for them to sit in the Chamber just to guard that open administrative culture? Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, it is necessary to include in an agreement on basic principles a clear framework of values which can be tested for the policy to be pursued. Create the policy from this human image: the government trusts its citizens so that citizens can trust the government again. Finally, Mr President. An agreement on the broad lines will soon have a clear vision of European cooperation, because only at European level can we draw up these guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u170	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations from JA21 to Mr Remkes. There's been a breakthrough. Whatever you think of the outcome, it's a breakthrough in this poachy, difficult process. Sigrid Kaag is not here right now, but she said: "It is this or new elections; then we do this, because otherwise the populists will win." It's like the light goes out. If sitting parties don't deliver, when voters are constantly, day in, day out, disappointed, when mistakes aren't admitted, but are properly talked or known for forgetfulness, or if you ignore the results of referendums, then the populists, left or right, win around the thunder. If that doesn't happen now, it'll happen in four years. So you know what you have to do, I say to Mrs Kaag. There she is, welcome. New elections have now been averted for the time being at the last minute, could you say 'but at what price?' Choosing the current combination seems to be a choice of poverty, which also seems to be against the sad leg of the CDA, which I think, like Mr Rutte, would have preferred to sit around with JA21 rather than with Volt or De Haan, no offence. But for now we are going to continue with the VVD, which does not find 1,200 incoming asylum seekers a week in crisis and which provides a secretary of state who said this weekend that the support for reception in the Netherlands is large and that Afghans' influx calls 'a clot'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u172	There is an interruption by Mr Hoekstra, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u173	I fully appreciate the enthusiasm expressed by Mr Eerdmans' contribution, but we have called a large number of combinations 'possible and discussable'. This includes each of the parties that Mr Eerdmans regarded as less attractive to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u174	Many thanks for this addition. Mrs Broekers is, moreover, the Secretary of State who is still in the cabinet as one of the few members of the government. All in all, it's the tragic face of a sinking ship. The voters are running away from Rutte III and Rutte IV, and so are the members of their own cabinet. It took a while, but after six months D66 went down his knees and continues to talk with the Christian Union. This will undoubtedly lead to additional demands on the climate in the negotiations. I think we can fear that the people in the country will pay the bill again, when they refuel, in the store or just through the energy bill. There is also a fear that strict agreements will be reached on migration, so that a right-wing majority in this Chamber can be restricted. On climate, you could say that last week's excuse for the VVD lost the last hope of a realistic and affordable adaptation policy. I hope, however, that the negotiating parties will eventually want to go for the nuclear option and dare to recognise that the 'off the gas' project has completely failed and will always be a failure, no matter how you think about the usefulness of a climate agreement. We said it before: no matter what coalition rolls out of that group of six or nine, it makes little difference in substance. VVD and D66 wrote a summerly setup of an agreement, a left progressive story, in which both CDA, PvdA and GroenLinks could agree. The contents were not the stumbling block; the VVD was already turned left. The only difference now is that we know who is going to implement the left-wing policy. Then about our own role. We have been constructive in this process from the very beginning, starting from the election day. We want in. We wanted to take responsibility, including in the First Chamber. However, that is something other than drawing blind at the left cross. Negotiation and compromise, yes, without influence supporting a coalition, no, of course not. JA21 is and remains focused on results. We are in politics to achieve as much as possible for our voters: a stricter asylum policy, less EU, no climate policy at the expense of our prosperity and our landscape, lower burdens and more security. Everything we can do for our voters, whether in the coalition or in the opposition. We are available to you 24/7. Finally, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank Mr Remkes for his work. I have three questions for him. One. How concise is a brief coalition agreement and what will be the room for manoeuvre of the Chamber? Two. How much time is needed for a brief government agreement? In other words, when does this cabinet stand on the platform, does Mr Remkes think? Three. How does Mr Remkes feel that this coalition is also getting its plans through the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u175	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u176	Mr Eerdmans based his entire election campaign on the idea that he would move the VVD to the right. My opinion is that this did not work very well. But why can't he see that? Why doesn't he see that the VVD just wants immigration and that's why it's been happening for ten years? It's not an accident that just happens. Why doesn't that get through?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u177	You should ask the VVD that question, I think. As far as we are concerned, we are able to pull the VVD to the right with JA21. If it isn't now, it's in time. I'm sure of it. I think we are more than FVD able, if I may say so, to adjust policy to the right. We may not be able to do that now, because we are actually blocked by D66. I don't believe so much by VVD and CDA. I believe that we can tell a realistic story to voters at the next elections in order to put a right-wing policy in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u178	That's either very naive, or you're just lying to your constituents, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u179	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u180	Or Mr. Eerdmans is lying to his constituents. Of course, it is not the case that the VVD is going to step out of the ECHR. It is not the case that the VVD wants to leave the European Union. They want to stay in those things. If you continue to argue that we want less immigration, I say that we simply cannot do so if we remain in these treaties. So either you just don't get it at all yourself, or you're just lying... or Mr. Eerdmans is lying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u181	You're barking at the wrong tree again. Then I would say: go check out the VVD and let your opinion hear there. We may be far apart from each other in a number of ways, but neither in a number of ways. But if you don't believe that you can change your policy anymore and if you think "we're here in the world to ourselves, we're going to explore the state of the moon and we're going to go to the order of the day," then you have a very good thing about the FVD and you're a little less at the right place at JA21. We are a realistic party that knows that you can participate, that you have to compromise for that too, and that you can do things. But if you just start barking at the side, you're sure nothing's gonna change. So I believe that in that respect we choose a different kind of politics than FVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u182	Yes. You've clearly been very successful in changing all those things. I just don't understand how this can't get through. I just don't understand how you can't see that the parties that have been in power now, the parties that have been in power for decades, are constantly making the same choices, and that that's not an accident. You're gonna talk to them now and say, "Maybe we shouldn't do it." I just don't understand why you can't see that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u183	The fact is that not much is changing at the moment. In fact, we stay in the same cabinet formation as we were. So very little changes. The only exciting thing is going to be the medical-ethical story. Is that going to be something or is that going to go on in the same way? So you don't have to be with us to see where the difference is, because we'd like to change. But then I think we're gonna have to get bigger. And I feel like the voter's gonna reward that. So I'd say wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u184	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Remkes for his vigorous approach. And let me start with the conclusion: the SGP believes that the investigation into a cabinet with VVD, D66, CDA and ChristenUnion deserves support. For the SGP, that is not a dream coalition either. No doubt such a new cabinet, if the formation succeeds, will come up with plans that we are not enthusiastic about or that we will even strongly oppose. This was also the case in the past period with the plan on the coronapas, for example. But I say at the same time: in a complicated and fragmented landscape, the practical wisdom is that you must conserve a coalition opportunity that has been tried out in practice. That certainly applies to so many difficult formation months ahead. Of course, there is a serious objection that has already sounded in all sorts of keys today: but beware of new wine in old bags. Don't the premium affair and the call for a new governance culture show that the helm has to change? That's absolutely true. It is risky to put new wine in old bags: that is a biblical image. The problem with these old wine bags was that over time they lost their elasticity and burst, causing all the precious wine to be lost and the sacks destroyed. So what's it gonna take? Resilience and elasticity. There is a need for sufficient flexibility to tackle the persistent problems as well. In fact, we do not take the problems seriously enough if we think that new people or new coalition parties will make things better, while in reality it is often a deeply rooted culture, which can only be changed with great, long-lasting effort and small steps. I would therefore like to make the following point, which is perhaps contradictory. Just if the existing coalition parties were to continue, in a way that would only increase the pressure to show that something really is changing. Cosmetic adjustments will no longer help. There are certain challenges, for example in terms of the human dimension in the implementation and the other way of dealing with Parliament. I assume that matters will also receive generous attention in the next phase of the formation. It helps against the arrogance of power that if it succeeds, the majority will not only be very large in this Chamber, but that a majority will also be required for legislation in the Upper Chamber. So Parliament also has a role to play. Mr. Chairman. There are certainly opportunities for a shorter, directional government agreement and more scope for ministers in particular to give substance to the 'how'. This can also help with the feasibility of plans. At the same time, I would like to say that it is only reasonable that there should be clear agreements on sensitive matters. What is sensitive is different for all parties, but we ourselves look with great interest at topics such as medical ethics and freedom of education. The government remains fully co-responsible as co-legislator, even in the case of initiatives from the Chamber, political and state law. We can't brush that away. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Earlier this evening, in Mrs Kaag's contribution, it was about gossip and pillows. In that special combination suddenly came to mind a story, with which I was made clear in the past to keep an eye on our words. I thought I'd tell you. Someone came by a sick man because he wanted to make amends, because he had slanders spread all over this man. "Do you want to make amends," said the sick man, "take this pillow full of feathers and go to the church tower of this city, pour out those feathers all over the city, and then gather them all back into that pillow." "Yes, but that's not possible at all," said the man. "Exactly," said the sick man. "You can't just make it up to me when you're spreading gossip. Therefore, be careful what you say about others." That's the lesson of this story I'd like to give to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u186	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u187	Mr. Chairman. The current coalition of VVD, CDA, D66 and the Christian Union will negotiate a start. That's not good news. That is actually a threat, a threat to the Netherlands. These parties have hurt society a lot in recent years. Because almost ten months ago, this cabinet of VVD leader Rutte, D66 leader Kaag, CDA leader Hoekstra and ChristianUnion leader Segers had to resign because it had been scandalously failed. In all these years they played a dirty and mean game to cover that failure: lying to the Chamber and withholding information. There was rarely more judgment by the House of Representatives about the conduct of the cabinet. Unfamiliar injustice, destroyed thousands of parents and children. Mr. Chairman. In the past few months we saw a huge play along the content, because they wanted to come out again on the same cabinet. And now Rutte, Kaag, Hoekstra and Segers go on like nothing happened. "Yes," said their spin doctors, "you have to say, if you're outside, it's gonna be different." Politics as a detergent; the same packaging, the same content, the same misery, but shouting out loud that it is improved, that it is now working. 'Cause they promised to get better! It would all be different. Rutte, Kaag, Hoekstra and Segers fell into the same patterns. Because what have we seen since that promise for a radical new governance culture? We saw a minister and a secretary of state who switched to grab money at a lobby club, a secretary of state who spends thousands of euros on a state attorney for advice on a private matter. We also have a finance minister who has to fight tax avoidance, while he himself invests in letterbox companies and tax havens. His excuse: I didn't know. If only other Dutch people could fall back on that. Kaag and Bijleveld failed hopelessly with regard to the Afghan interpreters. Their defense: it was chaos, it all happened so fast, we didn't know. Rutte III runs weekly from one scandal to another. Mr. Chairman. These parties were unable to solve the fundamental problems in society. Four years of VVD, D66, CDA and the Christian Union has resulted in the following. Hundreds of thousands of homes are in short supply, the number of homeless has doubled, 400,000 children in poverty, the parents from the premium crime have still not been helped, and this is how it is going to last until midnight. Now Rutte, Kaag, Hoekstra and Segers say we're gonna do it differently. Then I'm thinking, do you believe that? Tell that to the cat. Politics is not a detergent. So many words, so many excuses, so many sorrys, and at the end of the ride you know what the outcome is. Mr. Chairman. The VVD, D66, the CDA and the Christian Union that are going to form a government together: that is not good news. My group will fight the politics of these parties here in the Chamber. We are opposed to the erosion of access to justice, to the inhumane way in which this cabinet deals with refugees, to affordable housing, to poverty and to the swift and fair handling of all children and parents in the bonus crime. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u188	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group. Then my proposal would be to suspend for a dinner break after the first term of the Chamber and then continue with the informant and the second term. Why am I calling this in? Because I get a lot of apps. Mrs. Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u189	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to Mr Remkes for his efforts. When I was on my way to the formation meeting last Wednesday, a journalist asked me: do you know why you were invited, because you have no party and only one seat? It's a logical question in itself. But I do represent an important group in the House of Representatives, namely the elderly in the Netherlands, and I am referred to as the "constructive middle," something I consider to be a compliment. I'm gonna say what I said at the table on Wednesday morning. I think it's honorable to be a representative of the people, but I'm ashamed of myself sometimes. I'm ashamed of how we treat each other here. I too find it disappointing that there is still no cabinet and I also think that we can really do things better. But what is behind it is much worse, namely a lack of trust, a lack of values and standards and a lack of decency. Last Wednesday, Mr Remkes gave a number of options. He indicated that both a traditional majority cabinet and a traditional minority cabinet are no longer possible. Another option was conceivable: an extra-parliamentary cabinet, which can be filled in in many ways. There were a lot of questions. Mrs Kaag outlined what such an extra-parliamentary cabinet could possibly look like and tried to clarify this on the basis of the example of the tennis club. In doing so, she asked explicitly to keep this example among us, because otherwise there might be headlines about politics as a tennis club rather than about content. And who amazes me? You've probably seen it all too: that's exactly what's in the paper. And not only that; when I returned to the House of Representatives, many journalists entered my room, all of whom already knew exactly what had been said in the meeting. There were nine political leaders, one informant and three officials, and we have not been able to guarantee confidentiality. At least that makes me feel unsafe. It is another example, as some others have already been mentioned today, of something that certainly does not restore public confidence in politics. Mr. Chairman. The model that Mrs Kaag outlined shows courage and political courage. It is new in politics, but those who have worked in civil society organisations and companies know that this is not new. They know that. You have a substantive and financial framework, then you develop the content further into programs and plans, and then you're going to see who's going to implement it. Of course there are disadvantages to this model. These are mainly addressed to potential directors. It is not self-evident that, as is sometimes the case with a closed coalition agreement, you can simply pass your policy through the House of Representatives. It therefore requires very good, substantively competent and firm leaders who will do their job less under the influence of party politics. It also requires directors to start talking to the opposition at an early stage about planning. You will have to get a majority in the Chamber on content and not on the logical coalition majority, as we know it now. In my view, there are a lot of advantages to that model. There is a thin government program with room for external input and space for opposition parties to settle matters. The content is always leading. No party can remain on the sidelines, because everyone is expected to make a constructive contribution. And the political debate will focus more and more on the content through varying links. It is clear that this model is my preference, but whatever model is chosen, it can only work if you agree with each other on governance culture, even more so, on culture, on values and standards, on core values and on standards of decency. That sounds like a big challenge to me. But since I like challenges and am also an optimistic person, I am committed to doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u190	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u191	Thank you. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Remkes for his final report. BBB, the PVV, the SP, BET1, Forum for Democracy, DENK and the Party for Animals: over 3 million voters voted for these parties, but they were not allowed to talk about forming a new coalition. The reason is that on 7 September these parties did not support Mr Remkes' nomination as an informant. At least that's how I read it in the final report. It says: 'Then on Wednesday 15 September I also had talks with the chairmen of the Volt groups, Group Van Haga, JA21, the SGP and the Den Haan Group, who supported the motion with my mandate'. When I read this, I thought, "Now my clog breaks!" Because PvdA and GroenLinks also voted against Mr Remkes' nomination. But they then returned to the negotiating table. I therefore do not understand that phrase about supporting the motion. Perhaps Mr Remkes can give me some clarity. The failure to support the nomination made sense to me, not because I had no confidence in Mr Remkes, but because BBB supported a motion for a new election, given yet another failure this summer. Does that make sense to you, first to vote for a new informant and then to support a motion for a new election? I don't. Can Mr Remkes explain to me exactly what was the reason why BBB and the other parties mentioned were not involved in the process? Can Mr Remkes explain why we had to read in the media who was invited and not? I would also like to explain why the uninvited parties could not simply get an e-mail explaining that decision. Or have there perhaps been parties at the negotiating table that Mr Remkes has instructed or asked them not to invite? If so, which parties were involved and what was their reason for doing so? Then the "wide, constructive center." What does that even mean? Thanks to Mr Remkes, we know by now who Mr Remkes is among the broad, constructive ones, but not exactly what that broad, constructive one means. And how does Mr Remkes qualify those other parties? What is the basis for this qualification? Are you the broad, constructive middle when you burn down your future coalition partner in a lecture? Are you the broad, constructive middle when you as a party start a whispering campaign about Mr Remkes' alleged drinking? Are you the broad, constructive center if you first exclude a loyal partner and then want to allow by God's grace again because your own party is not so bright anymore in the polls? Are you the broad, constructive middle when you call democratically elected parties with three million people, each with their own concerns and problems, populists? Are you the broad, constructive middle when you leak to the press all the time, and with that, you shit the Chamber over and over again? Are you the broad, constructive middle when you destroy victims from the supplemental scandal and then dangle for years? Are you the broad, constructive middle if you still haven't paid the damage victims of the earthquake damage? Are you the broad, constructive center when you have secret advice on taking away permits from farmers if they don't get out fast enough? Are you the broad, constructive center when you damage a fellow chamber member in such a way that he comes home with a burn-out? Mr. Chairman. We've been more than 200 days since the election, we've worn out a laundry list of informers and we've had countless conversations. Only now will the content be discussed. These are conversations between the same parties who were in a cabinet responsible for the surcharge scandal and therefore resigned. Parties with people in whom Dutch people have less confidence than ever before. Parties with two party leaders who can't even agree to say something basic like trust in each other. That is why I have one final question for Mr Remkes. Tell me the truth. How much confidence do you actually have in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u192	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Oh, there's been an interruption by Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u193	I would like to thank Mrs Van der Plas for mentioning BET1 in the list of parties. But BET1 is not waiting for Mr Remkes' answer, because it is obvious to us, and Mr Remkes will have: we did not want to be invited. We do not have any need to be part of a government to which the VVD directs with Mr Rutte's person. So I really appreciate it, Mrs Van der Plas, but I do not want to rush Mr Remkes into words unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u194	You know, BBB doesn't rule anyone out and don't let anyone down, so neither do you. But I will leave it to Mr Remkes to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u195	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. There is another interruption by Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u196	Perhaps just to complicate Mrs Van der Plas' motion. We supported the motion and wanted to be part of it, but we were not invited. That surprises us very much. Of course, I do not have time to ask this question in my own term, so through Mrs van der Plas I would very much like to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u197	Yeah, look, that's what you get when everything's communicated through the media and you're not kept in the loop yourself. I understand from the media that Van Haga was invited. So I'm gonna make the plea once again just to communicate with the Chamber. Just send me an e-mail. Just say for a second: you're not there, unfortunately, and there's that and there's that and there's that reason. Then you could have responded to that; you could have asked a question. But this is another example in which apparently fake news is spread or something. I don't know. Anyway, at least it indicates the mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u198	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Seven months already. Seven months of a housing crisis going on and on. Seven months no closer to a solution to the climate crisis. Seven months of covidwan policy. Seven months of sick youth care. Seven months without justice for the duped in Groningen. Seven months of constant injustice for parents and children from the supplement scandal. And after those seven months, we'll be back here, back at the same coalition that was sent away for one example of shamelessly racist government policy. And what are you gonna do with it? What are you gonna do with this as a housing seeker in a liberal-politics-disturbed housing market? What do you do with it when you're a cultural entrepreneur during the corona crisis? What are you gonna do with it if you just can't make ends meet? And what are we supposed to do with it as a room? Hopefully stick to the promise that more of the same will magically create a completely different result? Well, the time I believed in fairy tales is really way behind me. I would like to make one thing clear: BET1 respects that the electorate has spoken. But there is a big difference between legality and justice, between what you are allowed to do according to the rules of the game and what is right to do. And continuing with the same failing dolls is anything but just. An unscrupulous government creates a morally decaying society. Eleven rulers have already left this cabinet, and in the past few weeks four more could have been added. Confidence in politics has never been as low as it is today. How could that be any different? If this is how our parliament works, isn't it logical that despair and cynicism prevail? The polarisation in this country is the direct consequence of this behavior. And at the head of all this is still the man with the infinite collection of hats, the man who is responsible for unimaginable suffering, countless scandals and much fuss. He is the figurehead of a system that dances to the tune of the free market rather than to the interests of the citizens, a outgoing Prime Minister who can laugh away a motion of censure with playfully ease: on to the next mistake or a next tactically lost memory. Justice? Mr Rutte has been doing so for a decade. Today, we've been through that again. We have once again heard election talk from the parties: VVD, CDA and ChristenUnion. Mouthful about new energy, fresh courage, hope, now really on! They have had seven months to give us that hope, to give us that hope and to show us that things would really be different. Mr Segers said: the promised change can only be seen from results, from changed behaviour. Then where was that to be seen, the last seven months in a missionary state during a corona crisis? I haven't seen any changed behavior. I would very much like to repeat the question and ask Mr Remkes: what should 17 million Dutch people base the hope that this intended coalition will ensure a better, more equal and fairer Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. I am thinking of all those millions of people who have been marginalised by conscious policy choices of this coalition. I am thinking of all those who have been victims of unprecedented injustice that has been done to them by precisely the group of people who now regain power. Mr. Chairman. No matter how right it is, it certainly isn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u200	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u201	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by complimenting Mr Remkes. After six months of political games and personal feuds, Mr Remkes only took three weeks to convince the various parties that the national interest is much greater than the individual party interests. It is good that the ladies and gentlemen are now trying to form a cabinet, because the Netherlands needs a reliable government that is back to normal. The twilight zone in which we have found ourselves since the fall of the cabinet on 15 January is undesirable to our democracy. A outgoing cabinet, which is missionary on important issues at will, has the support of the majority, but lacks the democratic legitimacy of a real missionary cabinet. The disintegration of the current cabinet by falling ministers is not good for the importance of the Netherlands. It is good that there is now another view of a stable government. We therefore support this attempt, but with great reluctance. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the importance of stability and the importance of a new cabinet, it is strange that exactly the same parties should be at the helm with the same people. In any case, it's a blow to the face of all the victims in the premium affair. It is a nightmare for employers who see with horror the difference between the gross wage they pay and the net wage that employees receive. It is a tragedy for entrepreneurs who see corporate tax rising, to pay for wrong climate action, for mass immigration and the energy crisis. It is a tragedy for people with ambition, who are willing to work hard for a better life. It is the end of the individual's freedom and the start of a new kind of collectivism: old Marxist wine in new pockets. We have seen in the corona crisis where this leads: lockdowns, curfews, humiliating mouth caps, exclusion and medical apartheid. That is why I would like to appeal to the VVD and the CDA to sell the skin expensively and to do justice to the 81 right-wing seats in the Chamber. Otherwise the Netherlands will again be four very dark years for working Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u202	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u203	Mr. Chairman. For months we heard that there is talk along the lines of content and that there are few differences in content. Outside we saw a motion of censure against Prime Minister Rutte. The roads separated, but soon got back together. There was a motion of censure against Minister Kaag. Segers was compared to a parked, rusty car. And Mariëtte Hamer told them to discuss each morning who had said something nasty about each other again in the newspapers. Pillows, drinking: this formation was about a lot of things that had nothing to do with the serious problems of the Netherlands. After the surcharge scandal, we need a new social contract, a new relationship between government and citizen. None of that has come out in the last seven months! We're having a housing crisis. Young people can't find a place to live. Divorced people are lucky enough to find a place in a caravan. And what are we talking about? Stop it! And security of existence is dropped by parties. How stupid! Mr. Chairman. It's nice of informant Remkes to have been able to call these parties to order and force them to do something. But this is not going to be anything at all, nothing at all, when I look at pictures of Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag. They look like a couple the whole neighborhood knows they're getting divorced, but they don't even know it yet. If they want to make something out of this, make it something really innovative. Do not go for the "function elsewhere." Make sure you stay where you're elected, I'll tell the party leaders. That's right here in the room. Make sure there really is a new cabinet, with real new momentum. It's not gonna work with the people sitting there right now. Be honest, after the last few weeks. Make agreements on the housing crisis that are enforceable. How many rentals and how many affordable properties are we going to build? I want you to keep the agreements on the governance culture. That was a bit of the missing chapter of the homework of the VVD and D66. Also check for the feasibility of laws. And have them read your state committee report again. Mr. Chairman. Then the questions to Remkes. Did Segers say it was a free matter or not? How's he handling the First Chamber? Is he prepared to enter into a special discussion on how to speak with citizens and the Chamber? Does he want to talk to a couple of victims and people who are victims of Groningen and the UWV? Finally, Mr President. Here's what I need to get off my chest. Mr Koolmees, like Mr Rutte, Mrs Kaag and Mr Hoekstra, did not speak very nicely about Members of Parliament. I'd like to hear about that one more time. And I would also like to hear about his last letter as a scout, denying that a particular Member of Parliament had been mentioned. It's a good idea to get rid of that for a while. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u204	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.20 p.m. and then the informant, Mr Remkes, will answer the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u205	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the final report by the informant. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I would once again like to welcome Mr Remkes. I give the floor to Mr Remkes to give information to the Chamber and to answer some of the factual questions that have been raised. I call Mr Remkes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u206	Madam President, thank you very much. A clear number of questions have been asked. I'll try to answer those questions in terms of ability, as a former informant, because as such, of course, I'm standing here. The ability to give all kinds of reflections about the future is not really given to me in this capacity. The same applies to the question that Mr Klaver started with. He asked about the contradiction in own-initiative legislation on medical-ethical matters. That will therefore have to be fully addressed in the negotiations. That's all I can make of it right now. That will undoubtedly be discussed at that table. Then we will have to look at where the landing is taking place, but it is good that Mr Klaver makes that point of contradiction. But between now and the moment that this question has to be faced, at least there is a very long time. In fact, I imagine, as I say, that if there are legislative proposals from the Chamber and the Chamber wants to deal with them carefully, even in the direction of society, then at least a careful attempt at social debate must be made on these issues. And that's what it starts with, of course. Then there is the question of the Christian Union Group: is the constructive involvement also open to groups other than the nine that were at your table? The answer in general is: constructive cooperation with all political groups is of course very important for a cabinet. It is up to the negotiating parties to give them their hands and feet in the coming phases. Mrs van der Plas's group's question: why am I not invited and why is GroenLinks and the Labour Party? As the report shows, I started from the report by the previous informant, Mrs Hamer. And who found that a minority cabinet from a combination of VVD, D66 and CDA to be determined had to be investigated, with the remaining six parties forming the broad middle to seek cooperation. Those other parties are: Labour Party, GroenLinks and the Christian Union. In addition, I have invited the parties who have supported my appointment as an informant for one-on-one interviews. I did not invite the other parties because their positions, such as the desire for new elections, were known and there was no reason to believe that these positions had changed. If Mrs van der Plas had given the signal during that process 'I will come back from my position; I do not want a new election on second thought', then she was invited. Madam President. Then I invited nine parties to 29 September. These were the six parties from the broad middle as well as the SGP, Volt and the Den Haan Group. I did not invite JA21 and the Van Haga Group to this meeting because they had made it clear in their one-to-one conversation that they could not support a minority variant of VVD, D66 and CDA in advance. Moreover, these parties are excluded from cooperation by another party in advance. So a conversation didn't have that much added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u207	There is an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u208	Firstly, the way Mr Remkes says "why am I not invited and the others are" is a bit like I've been sitting here complaining that I'm not at the children's party...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u209	Of course, I didn't understand it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u210	No, at least we can agree on that. We only have one seat, but that's 104,000 voters. The other parties included, you get to 3 million. So it's not so much about me, it's about my supporters as well. "If Mrs Van der Plas had said 'I suddenly don't want a new election anymore' then she was invited." It's not for me to beg for an invitation. Look, we supported a motion for a new election and therefore not the motion for the informant. I wouldn't think that would make any sense. You're not gonna support an informant first and then plead for new elections. I think that's just illogical; that's why. It has not been said at all that I have no confidence in Mr Remkes. Once the trial is under way, once the motion is passed and the informant is there... I haven't turned my back on the whole process. I did not say anything afterwards: what a ridiculous situation this is; we should not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u211	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u212	Well, first of all, I'd like to respond to what's being said here. It may be naive, but then I think... if you're going to invite parties to the beginning of such a process, invite everyone. At least give parties the chance to say yes or no or explain why they are not invited. We had to read it in the media. That is my criticism of the way things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u213	I referred to the process that took place among the predecessors, Mr Tjeenk Willink and Mrs Hamer. A number of positions were involved in this. In view of these positions, I actually had the attitude from the beginning: I don't feel like doing that process all over again. There was a great sense of urgency with me, and if I had done that process all over again, it would have taken an unnecessary amount of time. The added value, in my opinion, was not terribly high. That does not mean that I did not want to have a conversation on my own, but I am judging from the question of its added value in relation to the message that the Chamber sent me. That was the key question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u214	I'm sorry, but we've been forming for over 200 days and talking. Then it seems to me that the arrival of BBB, who is allowed to join us for fifteen minutes, is not the bottleneck for the whole process, which is going to take much longer. I'm not saying we were pulled over, but I'm not saying we weren't pulled over. It seems to me appropriate that you should at least give all parties the opportunity, in the vein of: "Do you have an interest in this? If no, fine, just as good friends, then we go on, and if so, I'll see where we can fit you in." I can't believe you're not gonna spend half a day debating a new coalition with me. But at least we could have inserted something. Assuming that's what we wanted. You know what I mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u215	No, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u216	It may sound a little vague, but it's all about you... Besides, we still have to get out of the paper who's invited. I just don't think that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u217	In the procedure, it is precisely for this reason that the informant reports to the Chamber, in order to be accountable in this way. That's why I'm standing here the way I am standing here. And I believe that I have explained sufficiently why the invitation policy was targeted as it has been targeted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u218	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u219	Well, finally, this is really a sample of old governance culture. And we're talking about a new governance culture. Old governance culture is: that's how it goes and then I'm invited by the Chamber and then I'm going to explain. So that is an old culture of governance, and I note that as a fact. I am curious... The new governance culture could also be: we actually involve everyone in the process. That does not have to be all on the sidewalk, but at least we start towards the Lower House parties, towards the Lower House groups with just a bit of decency and cleanliness: we are going to invite you or not and this is the reason. What Mr. Remkes is saying here is, for me, typical of the old governance culture. I wonder where this new governance culture will ever start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u220	I have allowed you to speak out, but it is not intended to have a debate with the informant, but to really only ask factual questions, so that the informant gives information. I think that's important to have said for a moment, other than...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u221	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u222	We're putting the informant in a debate position, and we shouldn't want that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u223	Fine. Then my actual question is: what is the new governance culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u224	I shall come back to that in a moment, but at least that is not part of the derogation from normal procedures and agreements with the Chamber. I come, Madam President, to the questions put by Mr Omtzigt, who refers in particular to statements by Mr Segers. I've already gone into that after my press conference. Of course, Mr Segers said: Mr Remkes's spokesman is not my spokesman. Of course, he's right about that. The substantive discussions have yet to begin and I look forward very much to those substantive discussions at the information table. That is all I want to say at the moment. It's the talk about the superparents. As an ex-informer I can attend that process... I have of course listened to all the considerations from the Chamber with great interest, but cannot go into them as a result of my responsibility at the moment. I assume that the four groups that are going to negotiate have also heard that request clearly. As far as I am concerned, this also applies... A comment has also been made about Groningen, and I think that is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u225	I was actually wondering if the informant saw the documentary "Against the State only."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u226	Yeah, well, I've seen part of that. I didn't have the opportunity to see that documentary at all, but our feelings about it don't differ. I followed the supplemental affair, of course. You also know that in daily life I am a resident of Groningen, albeit at the moment from Maastricht. So I know exactly what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u227	In that light, I can imagine that this is a question I would like to ask the informant that it is a good idea to invite the people of Groningen, but certainly also the parents affected by the supplement scandal, to these conversations. Then I hope there's something that actually helps people. Given that it has been taking so long and so much is being talked about, I wonder if the informant would think it would be a good idea to invite these people to a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u228	I consider that to be the primary responsibility of the four parties sitting at the table. As far as I am concerned, that is a little less the responsibility of the informant for the process. But I did say what I just said. Then questions were asked about a new approach, the coalition agreement on broad lines and reflection. De Klaver has asked the question: have you satisfied yourself that the envisaged coalition can find a good new approach to surcharges and nitrogen? The Party for Animals has in general asked the question whether reflection has taken place. The question asked by the Volt Group was: how does the informant guarantee that a coalition agreement will be reached? The JA21 group asked: how concise is a brief government agreement and when does a cabinet stand on the board? As far as the latter is concerned: the gift of looking at coffee is not really given to me, so I can't really answer that last question, but "as soon as possible," I say to the fraction of JA21. How's the First Chamber? The same question is in fact put by Mr Omtzigt. Madam President, yes, there has been reflection. It has been explicitly agreed that there will be surgery in a different, new way, with more room for directors and more room for the House of Representatives and for dualism. Think of it this way. I have tried very clearly at that table that there is an effort obligation. We are fully aware of the major social issues that have been raised here by this Chamber this afternoon and as they have been pointed out at that formation table. That commitment is evident from the four parties. That is, of course, something else so so sober we must also look at the process rather than an obligation to achieve results. So I have every confidence in that. If I hadn't, I wouldn't have come to the conclusion I did as an informant. There has been a genuine commitment, Madam President, to a new style of administration. The general government agreement is an expression of this. As a former informant, I'm confident it'll happen. If I have understood correctly, some people in this Chamber think that I will be able to show my face as well. If that is the case, the new informant will of course not forget the views taken by the old informant. This also means that, as far as I am concerned, the negotiations can be speeded up. Of course, I can't speculate on how fast. But the will to make pace is there. I hope you will understand that I do not go into the question of how succinct a government agreement is or how it has been dealt with in the First Chamber. It's not for me to speculate on that. The same applies to the question of whether party leaders should remain in the Lower House. I would like to say a few words about administrative culture, because I think Mrs Kaag referred to it. As I talk about it longer and more people, I increasingly come to the conclusion that it is in a great way a container concept. There are a number of elements in that. First of all, you're talking about the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber. Then it is about that brief government agreement, so that the Chamber also has more room to approach the cabinet constructively, and if necessary critically. I would add that the element of parliamentary culture may also be part of the administrative culture. The Chamber will, of course, want to use the space that is created. I understand that Mr Van der Staaij is working on a number of recommendations in this respect. It's really worth doing that. You can create more space through a coalition agreement, but if you don't reach that space, you've de facto, in fact, achieved absolutely nothing with each other. So one can't do without the other. This includes the following. If there is a brief coalition agreement in the near future, I could also imagine that the comments from the Chamber are that it is a vague story. That's all in the game. Choosing a brief coalition agreement is choosing to define what, while leaving it to the new ministerial team. Also for the Room I think it will be choosing or cable. Both of them can't be. Moreover, I believe that the debate on parliamentary culture also includes a debate between the Chambers on how to deal with each other. Who am I to say that? But I'm just gonna say it anyway. That's a discussion you have to have yourself. A new administrative culture also includes notions of what the administrative and administrative relations are. How does the government relate to the citizen? Then you're not just talking about the supplementing affair and about Groningen, but you're talking about a fundamental reflection on how our cabinet as legislator and the Chamber as co-legislator should look like legislation to give enough space on the work floor so that tailor-made work can be done. You're talking about strengthening the government's executive powers. Mr Tjeenk Willink has also addressed this on several occasions in the past. You talk about whether the information protocol should be better regulated and strengthened. Finally, you talk, but not last, about the integrity of the government, of directors and of politicians. Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u229	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Klaver and Mr Azarkan. Mr Klaver van GroenLinks. Thank you so much for waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u230	No problem. Thank you to the informant for the answers given. It is nice how he speaks about the administrative culture and what that means for the functioning of the House of Representatives. I do have one more question about countersigning. That's what he started with. He mentioned that very briefly. There is a reason why I brought it up, because as far as I can tell, it has only occurred three times in the history of this Parliament that it has not happened. It's a good use that it actually always happens. I come up with this now because I don't want some kind of sword from Damocles hanging over a new cabinet and that it could fall on issues that are going on right now. You say that there must be a public debate on this first. On a number of themes here in the Lower House there are laws ready for treatment, for example the period of reflection in the abortion legislation or the abortion pill at the GP. I do not want to anticipate the negotiations. The only thing I would like to do is to address the informant in the role in which he supervises the process, including the stability of a new cabinet. I don't want some kind of sword from Damocles hanging over a new cabinet that's the end of the story once such a law was passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u231	No, but that question must of course be faced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u232	Finally, Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u233	It was a shock: short answers! I was just chewing on the, let's say, easy-going qualification of the new administrative culture as a container concept. Then I ask myself whether Mr Remkes has looked a bit at why the cabinet had to resign. That governance culture is very concrete. That is a cabinet that did not answer the questions of Members of Parliament, which did not ask itself the question "are we going to implement Article 68 of the Constitution?" But "how do we get away with informing the Chamber as badly as possible?" This cabinet has resigned because of its administrative culture, because it was not solving the problems of the people who were in deep trouble, but because it asked itself the question: how can we use political and legal outcomes as an objective? Isn't that a rather concrete tightening-up of what administrative culture is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u234	That is precisely why I mentioned a number of elements which should play a role in the discussion on governance culture. I did not mention an information protocol under Article 68 of the Constitution for nothing. That's very concrete. It is not for nothing that I raised the question of how our legislation should actually be put together if you look at what went wrong in the supplementing affair. Of course, that didn't happen for nothing, so I guess I was anything but vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u235	I thought it was vague. I think it is too far-fetched to say: we need to make things better with protocols. I am not in favour of that. Mr Remkes knows that protocols and investigations lead us to look for something and then to fix something that is good for a long time, as long as it is completed as we have agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u236	But your actual question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u237	It's about how the cabinet looks at the role of parliament. We cannot do our job unless there is an administrative culture in which the Chamber is fully informed. If, in recent years, the Chamber has been immeasurably, improperly and incompletely informed, therefore, the Cabinet has resigned, it is not an incident. Then we're not gonna say to each other, "Let's see how we can tighten that up"? No, the cabinet should just fill that in. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u238	Let me repeat what I said to Mrs van der Plas. These are factual questions and not a debate with the informant. I would also ask you to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u239	That is precisely why I am saying that Article 68 of the Constitution requires a better information protocol, because something is obviously going wrong there. I refer to one thing: in the municipal law and the Province law, these matters are much better regulated than in the relationship between the Constitution and the information law that the Chamber has. That is exactly why I am referring to that. I do not entirely exclude, without prejudice to what is further discussed at the negotiating table, that such elements also return.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u240	This brings us to the end of the information provided by the former informer. A motion has been announced. That is why I am the first to look at Mrs Hermans for a second term. Let me see if there are any other Members who also need a second term. Well, at least that's Mr... let's get off the list. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD. There are a number of people who might want to table a motion or say something. I said I don't have to. First of all, Mrs Hermans, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the informant for the answers and the words to the Chamber about what the new way of working and new cooperation between Chamber and Cabinet means to us. I told you in the first term, I have a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that informant Remkes has reported;]] [[having regard to the foregoing considerations on constructive engagement and fruitful cooperation with other political groups;]] [[Under Rule 11 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Remkes and Mr Koolmees are hereby appointed to carry out the opinion of informant Remkes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hermans, Mr Kaag, Mr Hoekstra and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u242	The motion talks about "constructive involvement." What exactly does that mean during formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u243	The report concludes that the possibility of a majority cabinet of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion should now be investigated. In doing so, he suggests that, in the start-up phase of the negotiations, but also during the follow-up, he should have constructive cooperation with political groups in the House of Representatives, in order to take them into account. I think it is an important consideration from the opinion that we take this into account in our negotiations. That is why we have made the conclusion of the informant a statement. It will have to be demonstrated what the impact will be at the next negotiating stage. We will, of course, have to discuss this as four negotiating parties in consultation with the informers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u244	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u245	I read it in the report. I would not necessarily have taken note of it, because that is actually just how we spoke, but now that it is in a motion, I would like to know exactly what that means. Quite specifically, Mr Ploumen and I asked about such a financial framework on Wednesday. Then it was said, "You can talk about that, too." I said: that's interesting; can we really negotiate on that? No, I didn't mean to. Something would be written, and it could be responded to. So I would like to know exactly what this means for which parties. If this is written in such a way in a motion, then I would like to have a little more clarity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u246	The report of the informant outlines three layers of this constructive involvement. They are more or less on the A4' that was shared at the beginning of this debate. The opinion consists of two parts: examine the majority variant of these four parties and see how cooperation with other groups can be sought in a fruitful way. That is our conclusion. We ask the informers to give effect to this advice. It will therefore be up to the parties to implement this. I also realize that you, Mr Klaver, but also you, Mrs Ploumen, made statements about this in your term, also in response to the opinion. We will, of course, take that into account. We will involve that in how we implement it. Only, we think it is important to take what the informant has concluded as a conclusion and to give the advice of the informant in the assignment to the new informants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u247	Mrs Ploumen, PvdA, and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u248	Just for the record, the phase that is now beginning in the formation is that, under the leadership of two informers, a majority cabinet will be negotiated by four parties. That's different from what it says in those papers we got on Wednesday. I'd like to mark that anyway. It's a majority cabinet. With all due respect, I also say it to Mr Remkes and, in the absence of Mr Koolmees, the Labour Party has no intention of going into further discussions with you. We have made our position clear and we wish you every success in the negotiations. I think it is necessary to make that motion a little more specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u249	You have indeed been very clear about this in your response and in your time-limit in the debate. That is why the wording 'productive cooperation with other groups', where there is a need for it and a willingness to do so. That will have to be demonstrated at the stage of negotiation that we are entering into.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u250	I have two points to make. The first point is the following. I made a remark to the former informer, but it wasn't entirely a factual question, so I'll just put it to you. An informant was chosen who had previously been a scout, who, as a minister, was not so good with MPs and who, as a scout, wrote that no mention had been made of MPs, even though that was the case. If there is a search for fruitful cooperation, does the VVD Group share the view that it is useful that things like that are clarified instead of just going on? And two. I have given a whole list of promises made by the cabinet in which these four parties sit. Technically, the old cabinet is not equal to the new cabinet, but we all know what we're talking about. Do these four parties take over those promises from the old cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u251	Let me just give you a straight answer to both of these questions. The first question concerns statements made in the cabinet and on which we had a debate earlier this year. I also said at the time that there were things in the various minutes that were not pretty, to say the least, where other Members of Parliament were concerned. So that's what I'm sharing. If Mr Omtzigt attaches importance to this, I would like to stress this once again. Then there are the promises made by the present Demissionary Cabinet when it comes to implementing the recommendations of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance and everything else that the Cabinet has done about it. In any case, I believe that these recommendations should also be implemented in the course of the negotiations. Where extra things have to be done, where extra speed is needed and where the new cabinet has to take steps, attention will in any case be paid to this from the VVD side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u252	Thank you for that answer. As far as the first point is concerned, I hope that this will also be discussed at the information table. That doesn't have to be in reports or anything. The former informant is right to point out that there is still a lot to be done in this Chamber. Let's just say we understand. I think it is also our job to do something about this in this Chamber. That goes for me, too, so that's not a reproach to anyone. It is also something that, to be quite honest, is best dealt with in a different context. For the second, I would also like to thank the VVD Group. Let me say that nothing has actually come of the promises made in the letter of 15 January and in the debates on childcare allowances, such as the appointment of someone who would put the archives in order before 1 July, such as setting up a state committee and such as an independent research standard. I would therefore like to thank you for that support, and I hope that during the formation, but also in the formation, it will simply land somewhere, because that is just desperately needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u253	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I'll see if Mrs Kaag needs a second term. That is not the case. Then Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u254	Mr. Chairman. Please, let's stop this charade. Let us not allow VVD, CDA, D66 and the Christian Union to further destroy our beautiful country. They don't trust each other and the Netherlands doesn't trust them at all. Fear of elections is what drives them together. Not the national interest, but the scary, narrow-minded self-interest. Mr. Chairman. No Rutte IV. No Rutte/Kaag. Not more of the same. No more immigration, money to the European Union and climate change. Please, let's not destroy the Netherlands anymore. Let us not allow them to destroy the Netherlands further. We need elections and we need elections now. Today. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to dissolve the Chamber and to hold new elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u255	Finally, I would also like to have an important opinion from the cabinet on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u256	We're gonna vote tonight. So I'm assuming that this will soon be redirected to the cabinet, so we can get a response to the motion before we vote. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u257	I'm sorry, isn't that a little charade? We have submitted the request twice and the cabinet has responded that it is up to the Chamber. We're not gonna ask the outgoing cabinet again what they think, are we? That's just a charade, isn't it? This doesn't make any sense, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u258	If we all just want to deal with this a little seriously: this only takes time and we don't solve anything with it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u259	Thank you. At least we sent the message and the response to the cabinet. Let me look at Mr Hoekstra to see if he needs a second term. That is not the case. Mrs. Marijnissen of the SP does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that large groups of people have been squeezed by the government, in Groningen, in the surcharge scandal, at the UWV and elsewhere;]] [[calls on the negotiating parties to engage in talks with victims of these scandals during the negotiations in order to consider their situation and to consider whether the solutions proposed in the government agreement will also help, and to report to the final report on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Remkes for the answers to the questions. We will vote in favour of the motion of the VVD. That is not because we think this is a good outcome, or the best outcome of the negotiations or the results of the elections. But we are doing it because we think there should be a cabinet soon, so let's move on with the goat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u262	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then I'll see if there's any further need for a second term. Let me see if Mrs van der Plas needs a second term. That is not the case. Mrs Simons doesn't have to and neither does Mr Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you are not invited to the tables, then it is important to use all opportunities to give a direction. That is also a serious hint to some people here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the forming parties to submit a draft governing agreement together with an implementation test of implementation organisations such as the Tax Administration, the UWV, the IND and the CBR to prevent new major accidents in execution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the forming parties to make concrete, check-out arrangements in the government agreement on the number of new affordable rentals and new affordable residential properties in order to resolve the housing crisis step by step and make available the corresponding resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-62]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Eerdmans and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u264	I certainly consider the issue of the execution test to be important, but I think it has been a very brief government agreement all along. So my question is: what is the right time for that? How does Mr Omtzig look at that? In fact, I can also imagine that this will be dealt with in the implementation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u265	As an example, I have the 2012 coalition agreement. It said in one sentence: we introduce a household allowance. Then I said immediately: that won't work, because the definition of "housekeeping" in the different supplement laws is different. The family definition is different with the rent allowance, because you can have residents. It's different with the care allowance, because your live-in 18+-year-old child is your own household. It's different with the childcare allowance. It's a very complicated thing. But the household definition is not the same. So I said, that's not gonna fly. It wasn't going to fly in the execution either. It stopped just in time. It may be that we do the same quickie when we start to burden the SVB with the pgb again. Then it's useful if these organizations can write a test. It may well be that there is a vague sentence and then the organisations say: we can't say it here yet, so let's do an execution test when the bill is there. But I would like to give them the opportunity to say in good time: beware here, it is impossible or enforceable under conditions. I mean that we take that lesson from the Bosman committee seriously as a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u266	Thank you. Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u267	I doubt what to do with this motion. That's why I'm asking. I would say that the motion that is being voted on today is not properly implemented if this kind of detail comes into a government agreement. As far as I am concerned, the negotiating parties have a completely different problem with this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u268	Even behind one sentence can hide a very big world. I'll give you one example of what you might get back. It says, for example, that we have an ambition to abolish the childcare allowance by 2023. The tax authorities can already say: "That is not possible, you must do it in 2024, no matter how much the Chamber likes it." I think it's better to get those kind of sentences back in time. I think that's better than waiting for legislative proposals in the Chamber. And I told you, it could be a good idea for such an organization to say: well, we'll wait for the bill. This was, by the way, the request contained in the letter written to informant Remkes by Mr Pechtold and others. I think it's a sensible request, given that all the crap has been at the CBR and the UWV, something the Chamber itself was a little bit guilty of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u269	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-05-tweedekamer-23.u270	This brings us to the end of this debate on the informant's final report. I would like to thank the former informer once again for coming and his presence here. I'm suspending the meeting for about 15 minutes. Then we shall proceed to the votes.
