ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on extending the support package for companies. I understand that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs will be the first to speak. Yeah, I can see it. That is a little different from what you did last time, because you were one of them, and I am looking at the Minister and you had two minutes in the end. I'd say take your time, catch up. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	We had till 7:00, didn't we, Mr. Chairman? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By the way, if you can only speak for two minutes, it is a pleasure and an honor to sit here for an entire evening. Of course, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	Exactly. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	I've been there a long time myself, so... Mr. Chairman. Maybe for a start, because several Members referred to this as well. Of course, we have all been horrified by the images of the riots throughout the Netherlands over the last few days, and then directed against entrepreneurs who are already having such a hard time. Fortunately, we can work towards a solution in repairing the damage, but it is, of course, totally, completely reprehensible, especially for this group that is already in such a difficult situation. Precisely because they are having such a hard time, the cabinet has opted for an enormous increase in the support package, which was already not too slow. I would like to emphasise that here. I understand all the points made by the Chamber, and we will take that into account, but I do not want the picture hanging here as if this cabinet were a little shady in its kitchen at this time. We are already at over EUR 60 billion and we are adding more than EUR 7 billion. With all the ifs and buts, we see that that package does what it has to do so far. Unemployment is rising, but it is still relatively low. The number of bankruptcies is low. In doing so, I do not detract from all the concerns and questions that have been raised, but let us do justice to the size and extent of this package. By the way, I have heard several Members say that in sentences. It is logical for Members of Parliament to point out where things are not going well, but I would like to stress this again. Perhaps also as general, as this will come back more often in the debate: we have deliberately chosen generic measures in the past and now. Generic has a huge advantage, namely that you can act quickly. That too has been highlighted many times in the debate here and in previous debates. People just want to be helped quickly. That's a lot of work, too. But the disadvantage of generic is of course that there will always be individual circumstances in which the net does not fit. By the way, there will also be circumstances in which it might be more than what exactly would be needed, but we will take that for granted. You choose either one or the other, even if you would like to deliver customization for every situation. Everyone in this room would prefer to sit at the kitchen table with every entrepreneur and ask: how exactly can we help you, precisely focused on your situation? But then we come to another point: the feasibility. I really do not want this to be discussed lightly, also bearing in mind the many debates on issues of implementation that we have had in the Chamber lately. A committee headed by Mr Bosman is specifically working on this. The debate to which you referred, which I attended until the middle of the night, was also about implementation: listen to the signs of implementation. We can do a little easy by saying: what kind of answer is "computer says no"? Sorry. Thousands of people work hard there. They do what they can, and we really need to have an ear and an eye for that. Of course, that is not a nice reason to occasionally say no, but let us also be consistent as a political one. If we say that the implementation must be heard, then we really must take that argument seriously in other dossiers. Mr. Chairman. That was just a little introduction. I'll try to do it in a few cubes. I'll say a few things about the TVL and starters first. Then I will answer a few other questions. That always sounds like it's not important, but they just don't get categorized. They were important questions, though. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the perspective that many people are longing for, including me, of course. Mr Koolmees will do everything around the Tozo, the TONK, the NOW and so on. Mr Hoekstra deals, if I say so, with taxation, the position of banks, public finances and damage. I hear there's something else muttering about cuts, but I'll leave that to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The debate rightly focused a great deal on small entrepreneurs. First, let's name what we're all doing. We increase the subsidy rate in the TVL to 85%, no longer with a stairs but equal to 30% turnover loss. That really is a considerable increase in relation to the previous package. We increase the minimum grant amount to €1,500 and we're going to lower the fixed charge threshold from €3,000 to €2,000. Among other things, Mr Aartsen asked what that was like, because in the letter it might have been a little cautious. This had to do with the fact that we wanted to check a few things legally and technically, because very often things work on each other again and we do not want any unwanted effects. But that's what we're gonna do anyway. Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party asked: can it not go to €1,500? I'd look into that, but I don't want to promise that here yet. We just have a few things to figure out. First of all, there can be some friction, because the minimum grant amount is already €1,500. We've already taken a big step, but I'd like to take a closer look. We saw that this €2,000 potential did something very annoying in the event module. It's all annoying technique. So I just want to find out if it has effects somewhere else that we don't want. We also want to know how much it costs. I really want to understand with the RVO to see if this is feasible for them, because any extension means that we will also have to serve more people. So I want to take a serious look at it, but I also want to do expectation management. These are important questions for me, but I say that I can't get all that sorted out today. But I'm looking at it with an open eye and we're gonna do that $2,000 anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	I welcome this reply from the Minister. I also understand that we can't do that today. The Minister also gets signals that the concerns are great. So can the Minister give us any indication when it's gonna be a little more clear? I had prepared a motion, but I won't file it. That would be a little faint with this commitment, but some indication of time would of course be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	I'm gonna say as soon as I can. I will be brief as to whether I can give a little more concreteness in the second term, as soon as possible. I get this. The need is high and great and we all need clarity. On the other side of the spectrum, there is a discussion about this so-called cap, the maximum amount that we want to spend on aid every quarter. Also the notion that it stood up, I believe, €90,000 and goes to €330,000 or even €400,000 per quarter. Why is it maximized on that amount? This has to do with European state aid rules. The framework under which we are covered is simply to limit it to this amount. Members of the Christian Union, including the spokesperson of the Christian Union, who even knew the articles by heart, say: there are other possibilities? Yes, it is, but those other possibilities have disadvantages. This is also how we constantly see that package. We can see all these dilemmas, of course. Let's say you're going to, like, "I'm saying it out of my head" There you have another maximum subsidy rate on your TVL, namely 70%, which would be very detrimental to the smaller companies we are currently trying to serve. An even greater disadvantage is as follows. In this TVL we can work by sector and very generic. I have just said in my introduction why, with all the disadvantages that it has, it is really preferable. That cannot be done underneath; then you have to do it all individually. You can, but then you'll probably only be helping a company eight years after the corona crisis, so you're way too late. If you would like to move to another regime, then you will also have to adjust all your arrangements and submit them for approval again. And then we'll be months away. So I understand exactly where the question comes from, and I also read the interviews and the messages in the newspaper, but within the possibilities we have, I think that the choice we make is the only sensible one. Is that the only thing we can do because otherwise Europe is not allowed to do? Yeah, we're bound by that. Once again, until this package, the TVL was only there for the smaller companies. So we're really doing a lot more. We also have the special aid for stocks, which, of course, these companies are also eligible for. On the NOW... but Mr Koolmees knows better... is not a cap, so there is also some space. Furthermore, it will have to come from outside parties what is possible to do there. These are private investors or the banks, perhaps supported by our GO-C. We are also working with VNO to see what we can do about a recapitalisation fund. But what I can do about that ceiling, that cap of €330,000 or so. 4 tons, really limited to this. The only alternative is to switch to something that would take months and have other major disadvantages for small businesses. Another question in this context was whether you can't see whether it's possible to arrange it by branch or group of companies instead. This also applies: then you should go back to the entire books for each establishment. We can't pull that out of a computer somewhere like that. The Commission then looks back at the company as a whole with regard to State aid. So as much as I'd love to help everyone, I don't see how I'm gonna get out of this puzzle. I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman. Then the gentleman asked... Oh, here's a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	It's not exactly an interruption, so I hope you don't include it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	Perhaps Mr Hoekstra will then be able to respond to the possibilities for this target group in the banks. Because if this is going to take a very long time, I think at some point we're going to have a very big problem in the shopping streets, in terms of jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	Of course, we share that concern, Mr. Aartsen. In presenting this package, I have already said myself: it is much more than an economic package for me, because the effect is precisely this, for example. Let me just look at my own place. What's a street like if we can't keep things up there? But Mr Hoekstra will say something about the possibilities with the banks in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	I think the Minister has the problem clearly. So do we. I think that we may find it difficult to get out of this ongoing debate. But there are possibilities. There are also possibilities to get up to 3 million and so on. Would it not be possible for the Minister to make a commitment to sit down again with the large-scale retailers with the many branches, specifically with lawyers from the Ministry and RVO and with lawyers from the companies, to see what opportunities there are? I got in last night that I can, but we can't really discuss that now, because then we won't be finished by 19:00. If the Minister is now making a commitment that he is going to deal with them properly again and really bone by bone to see what can be done, it is good, as far as I am concerned. Then I'm gonna leave the whole motion thing and the same thing. Then we're really gonna take another look. Then it can also be quiet, without a lot of political charge on it. 'Cause it's about those holes in the shopping streets. The point is that in six months' time we wouldn't have thought "if only" when we could have. If the Minister can make that commitment, I am sure that Mr Amhaouch and Mr Aartsen, but especially the shopkeepers and the people who work there, are very happy. Couldn't that promise be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	Before that, I have every confidence in our lawyers. But I'm always open to conversations with everyone and everything. If anyone has a better idea or says "it's okay," we're gonna do it. So I want to promise this, but with the expectation management that the answer I just gave here has been chosen by our best people as well. They didn't do that yesterday on an afternoon after. But if anyone has an idea and says "it's possible," I'm very willing to put it next door.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	I am very pleased with this commitment, because it gives openness; this gives opportunities. I really have the strong feeling it's coming out. Thank you for that commitment. At least you do not have to expect another motion from me in this area. This commitment is sufficient for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	That's what the Acts say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	I'm gonna do this, but I'm gonna do expectation management outside, too. Yeah, I want to look at things, but I also want to prevent the disappointments from happening again. So let me add: the outcome of the conversation can also be "sorry, your analysis is final." But I can see Mr Stoffer nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	I hear the Minister saying that it's hard to see those numbers at location level. But of course it is not up to the government to solve that problem. The problem is that it's in a group. Then I'm wondering, why don't we just take that group clause off? Many groups of companies have been rigged in such a way that there are several e.g. under a parent holding company. Then let those separate bv's be able to make an application. That would be a possibility. But if it is in one example, you can also make a printout at cost. Then it is up to the establishment, the separate hotel or the individual store itself to provide those figures, just like an independent shop or hotel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	But you will always have to have a check on that and answer to the State aid framework, which works at company level. I understand very well where the question comes from. I'd really like to. But you're going to have to look at and assess so many things individually. It's possible, isn't it? We can ask the RVO. But then I'll have to put everything I'm happy about right now on hold. That's just the problem we run into all the time. It is not that, when we see a problem in the discussions we have on this package, we say: whatever. Of course we are also constantly looking at what can be done, but we are really running into the limits of what we can still ask of our implementation and of systems that need to be set up there. We really kept everything upside down, but I don't see it happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	I understand that very well. I also understand that the will is there and that it is difficult, but I think that a lot of those entrepreneurs will be okay if the perspective is there that happens later. So things don't have to be stopped now. If you can now say 'we are going to do that, but it may take a year and of course we need to check', then those entrepreneurs have already been greatly helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	As much as I'd love to, I really can't promise that. In my view, I have now explained up to three or four times what overload we have in our implementation services and how they can control things. You need to do that as much automated as possible. I just really don't see it happening. I don't want to make any promises that I can't make at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	Then it is not a question of not being able, but of not wanting, because it is, of course, about the fact that there is a group clause in it. If we allow a separate e.g. or a separate establishment to make that application, it just goes in the normal flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	This is going to be a repeat of moves. Of course we constantly think: can there be more? Here, too, the implementation really says to me: we cannot have this. That will be at the expense of all the things that are already being done there. You know, I just can't promise this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	Fine, Mr. Van Dijck. You touched all the microphones. In that sense, it doesn't matter anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	A superspread event!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Tony van Dijck and then Mr. Amhaouch? Is that true or were you just walking? Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	It concerns Blokker, Intertoys, Scapino, Leen Bakker, HEMA, Xenos. This minister simply says that it is impossible to do it in terms of implementation. So this minister is actually saying: state aid rules, Brussels; we're just gonna let 200,000 people fly out into the street and we're gonna let half of the big retail business in the shopping streets go bankrupt because 'the computer says no'. I can't imagine. We certainly do not like the rules on state aid in Brussels, but if you want to honour them, they are very much stretched out. Other countries do not care. Brussels also says, for God's sake, do what it takes to help everyone and everything. But this minister is going to say: yes, technically let's get Blokker, Intertoys, Action, HEMA, Xenos, Scapino and Leen Bakker on the bottle later. Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	I have said something about the implementation both in my introduction and afterwards. I really don't think we should make a caricature out of that. There's a lot of hard work out there. We're doing everything we can. It is not for me to reflect on the Chamber, but as a cabinet we have taken many lessons to heart about what has happened in recent years: if implementation tells us that something cannot be done, we take it seriously. Because we want things to be well organized and I don't want things to be at the expense of things that are going well now. Again, for a lot of companies we do a lot of good things and we offer a lot of support. I have just indicated what we can do for these sectors. Minister Hoekstra is going to say something about what, for example, we can do about lending for this, which, for example, also supports government guarantees. In extreme emergencies, as a government within frameworks, you still have opportunities to look at an individual company: do we want to keep that up? The caricature described by you "if the computer says no, the cabinet says: those entrepreneurs can't fascinate us".... is simply not true. We do what we can, but we can't do everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	I wish it was a caricature. The Dutch Retail Council has clearly indicated that 40% of these big boys, those branch companies, are in trouble. We've had fire letters here all over the Chamber from Blokker, from Scapino, from Leen Bakker. Today the Wibra is in The Financial Daily. Everyone says we're gonna last another month and then we're gonna shut down branches. Those are branches in those small towns that are badly needed for the people who live there and for the shopping streets. This Minister says: we are doing everything we can, but either implementation is in the way or the state aid rules from Brussels are in the way. Then you'll have to work with advance payments. Give those companies an advance on state aid and see if it was justified at a later stage, whether it was a little too much or if it was a little too little. But you're not gonna let a Blokker or a Scapino close down 30, 40 or 400 branches because the implementation technique, the computer or the state aid rules say: it can't be done? That's impossible, isn't it? You shouldn't be so powerless. You just have to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	Just for a second. This cabinet blames it for not acting, I really think the greatest possible nonsense. I think a lot of countries with a lot of jealousy are looking at the huge package that this government has built to pull our economy through. We are now taking another step on top of that with more than EUR 7 billion. Really, there are parts of the rich budget that are smaller than just the expansion of this package. I also said at the beginning: "Is it perfect for everything and everyone? No, you can't." I wish it were, but that's dream politics. I've also indicated what we're doing. I also indicated why I really listen to that performance. I have now seen too many times that after six months I was called back to the Chamber with the question of why I let the performance get so out of hand. Mr Hoekstra is going to say something about what else we can do for these companies. So blaming this cabinet for not doing anything is really a bit crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	I'm sure I'll go along with that last one. Surely you can't blame the Cabinet for not doing anything. In the past year, almost 65 billion has been spent on it, if it is not anymore, and hundreds of thousands of companies have been helped. I would like to go through where Mr Stoffer left off. Those rules are being looked at. The Minister also gives a hook to look at this seriously, without any expectations. I want to go to the implementation, because we do have to be very careful about that. We've talked about that enough in this house. However, we are in a crisis, and we have also seen in the concern that, at the moment that implementation is stalled, we are going to see where, for example, Defence can help, or where organisations can help other organisations, for example. I would also like to look at this from an economic point of view. Where we run into the boundaries of the execution, whether it is for the UWV or for the RVO, we need to see if there is room somewhere else in organizations that can help. All the municipalities know these shops. They're important and it's about 5,000 stores. So is there anything you can do to change that? I do not need the answer now, whether it is possible or not, but I would like to ask if the Minister will bear this in mind if he looks at this dossier further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	Yeah, I always keep that in mind. By the way, you are now easily calling'municipalities', but I think that Mr Koolmees will also comment on the implementing power of these municipalities. We are asking a great deal of this at the moment on other dossiers. The problem is not always so much a human being, but also, for example, in the construction of computer systems. You don't just open a can of people who can. Of course we constantly look at what more can be done, but let's also watch out for the image of: bring in the army and you can help thousands of additional companies. I'm not saying you say that, am I? If it were that simple, we would have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	I'm just processing that "army," but the question I have for this minister is next. They are large groups, which are indeed in many shopping streets and where many thousands of people work. I just heard the Minister say: when it comes to an individual company, as a government, we can also see if we want to keep it up. Can this minister promise that the cabinet, when it comes to such an image-finding company where so many people work and on which so many shopping streets depend, is in any case talking to such companies to see how they can be helped or in what way they can make a contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	I can't tell any company in advance, we're gonna save you. We rightly have very tight frameworks for this and I believe that the SP supports us in this. There have also been examples where we have made the decision not to do so. Maybe for a while: we are spending taxpayers' money here, huh; it is not our money. But it is already EUR 67 billion. So if you're going to save individual companies, then you really have to have very strict criteria and look at them very carefully. In addition, I have just said that Mr Hoekstra and I are looking at how to bridge things with credits. I think there is still a world to be won, even in the event of other problems. We can see, for example, that small entrepreneurs still find their way, or are still too unfamiliar with the possibilities that exist. We're working hard on that. But we have a standing framework, in which you sometimes save individual companies. I am not going to anticipate that now, but that framework exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	I didn't ask the question on the assumption that we're just gonna take over those companies, finance them or save them. But if there is such an acute situation in a large group that is in a lot of shopping streets and where a lot of people work, would the Minister at least want to talk about not just letting it happen that the group goes bankrupt and all those employees lose their jobs? This can indeed be done with appropriations, by extending deadlines or by organising other matters. So can we always look at ways of preventing bankruptcies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	Not always and in all cases, but of course we keep in constant broad contact with society. If something goes wrong somewhere, we won't hesitate to start the conversation individually. That's how I want to answer it. They really know where to find us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u36	The wonders are not yet out of the world when the SP asks whether the door of the Minister of Economic Affairs is open to large companies in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u37	Let's take this down, yes: the SP said that there are a lot of people working at these big companies. And rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u38	It is very important that we look carefully at how companies where many people work stay and are kept healthy. However, I would like to point out by way of interruption that on 1 May 2020 the Ecofin ministers sent a letter containing conditions for companies to be able to apply for individual state aid. These are companies in vital sectors and companies with certain characteristics. I think it would be a good idea to adhere to these conditions, because they were also looked at in the first wave in the first half of 2020. We would like a level playing field for all companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u39	Agreed. In my view, this was not a question but a justified addition with a reference to the past. Mr. Chairman. Then a few questions about the TVL, among others from Van Haga... An interruption, perhaps, at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u40	In the case of State aid a small supplement: this does not concern companies closed by the government with a lockdown, which are therefore in need and which therefore request support. This is just about state aid when a company gets into trouble in normal circumstances and asks for help from the government. That is quite different from the fact that, as a government, you shut down the doors of companies and that's why they're in huge trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u41	Of course, the situation is different from that outside of corona and we hate the fact that we have to shut down companies. By the way, I find it admirable that many of these entrepreneurs, with all the misery, have a great deal of understanding that it is necessary for the virus. Fortunately, I also see that, in general, widely in the Chamber. I don't see what this does to what I just said: we are doing what we can within the limits of implementation and the rules we have. We also do a lot more in the context of corona, for example with credits. We've expanded that now, too. Furthermore, I would like to say once more what I have already said in the last five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u42	Yes. One last remark on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u43	It was simply an addition to the comment on the letter on the rules that a company in a vital sector has to comply with in order to qualify for State aid. Those are apples and pears. Now we're talking about a lockdown. The doors are closed and that's why companies get into trouble. That has nothing to do with the regular state aid that was once intended in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u44	Yeah, okay, yeah. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Haga asked if you could do something about the establishment requirement. In my view, this has also been mentioned more often in these debates as a question and idea. I think you've been given the answer before. Here you come at once with a new group of tens of thousands of potential people who are eligible for a TVL and who probably have very low fixed costs. You will then have to check whether what is registered on a home address is active, or whether it is an e.g. that doesn't happen that much. That's so much trouble: I really can't ask the RVO to do that. By the way, perhaps on this point too: Mr Koolmees will say something about the Tozo and in particular about the TONK. Because of this kind of complicated situation, we have started to think about that kind of arrangement. Actually, the same applies to the linking of the stock fee to the TVL. That is what we need to be able to pay out very quickly and to keep it viable. By the way, that is also easy for that entrepreneur. He only has to apply once. If we wanted to do this separately from the TVL, we'd have to build a whole new arrangement. Let us be clear: the arrangement that we now have is quite rightly also much wider than we had in December, because at that time it was still based on what is happening in the catering industry, including in the clothing business. I think we have rightly made a substantial correction to that. In this context, Mr Van Haga and others came up with the idea of introducing a hardness clause for very poignant cases. Yeah, but with expectation management. Because if you are going to do a hardness clause so broad that everything is covered again, you are, so to speak, making a new arrangement again. But for the real exceptions, we'll see what we can do. That's what we're doing right now. But those are really the situations... for example, there was a fire in the last year. I'm just saying. That's terrible, of course. Then your turnover is also zero. We'll see some possibilities there. So we look at it, but you have to limit it to very exceptional cases, also in the context of legal inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u45	You will have the opportunity to ask a question, Mr Van Haga, but the Minister is still working on the first subject. Is that right? And you still have a whole list, I see. So I do want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u46	I'm standing here answering questions from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u47	That's the idea. But questions are not meant to be asked after each sentence, because in the first period a lot of questions have been asked. They also need to be answered. Do you still dare, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u48	That's a very nice challenge. If such a hardness clause does not only apply to situations where there has been fire, for example, but there is simply a general hardness clause, then you can include all the different exceptions if they are distressing. That's the point, of course. It is not the intention at all to cause more work, but it is the case that, in those very distressing cases, people who do not have a separate office, who are therefore not eligible for these arrangements, can be claimed through that hardness clause. Then that can be judged. It's not a problem that it takes a little longer. Again, that's a bit the same as the situation just now. But at least these people have perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u49	But then you're going to stretch a hardness clause so that you're de facto making a new arrangement. Or there's gonna be a big legal injustice. If you say 'we're going to bring the address problem under the hardness clause', we're going to have hundreds of thousands of cases covered by it. I just can't. I get the point of those people who don't have their business addresses elsewhere. Mr Koolmees will say something about that. My suggestion would be not just to focus on this rule, but to see what you can do with the TONK. That's quite feasible. The hardness clause should not be so broad that we de facto allow everyone or establish new rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u50	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u51	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. But it must be possible to filter out those apeert poignant cases via such a hardness clause. If people don't have damage, they don't qualify for it. But now they don't have a chance to sign up. They have no possibility of a trial. They don't have the ability to do anything because, for example, they don't have an office. So if you do ride that hardness clause in it, it can be a solution for a limited number of people, who really, really, really have the water on their lips.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u52	This is a repeat of moves. Mr Van Haga now extends a hardness clause to something already defined as the address issue. That actually opens the deal. I really think that's unwise. I have now argued that three or four times. I really think that for those situations, when it comes to what you can do for those people, you need to look at the TONK a lot more. It is precisely because of these examples that Mr Koolmees and I started to think about this when I was in my previous position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u53	I suggest you move on. Don't look at Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u54	It is always very pleasant to look at Mr Van Weyenberg, but I will continue to talk. A very esteemed former colleague! Mr. Chairman. Maybe a few more things. The SP had a question that follows on from: Can't you look at customization by sector much more? There too, we are really at the border. Of course, we've been able to do a few things. For the record, we are talking about almost 100,000 TVL applications per quarter that need to be dealt with now. The Chamber is about it itself, but there has already been a technical briefing by at least RVO about the execution offered and I think even requested. I would like to make the warm suggestion to the Chamber that it really should take place, so that we can really take you into what it means if you ask A, B or C of us and at what cost. Mr. Chairman. I'll try to boost the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u55	I would like to make the proposal that the Minister finish this. Members will then be given the opportunity to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr. Chairman. Among other things, D66 asked what the event sector can count on. In the letter, of course, we announced a guarantee fund. That's what we're working on right now. We have organised EUR 300 million for this. As we see it now, it focuses on events that will take place after 1 July. If you want to do something in July, August or September, you have to start preparing already. We are talking to the sector about its further development, but let us hope that the guarantee fund will never be necessary, because that means that in the summer we are all doing very nice things with each other again. Furthermore, we have created the event module. The question was: can't all this be done faster and sooner? We are working very hard on that, but this is really customization because we are assessing 800 companies individually. You can imagine how much time that takes, but we hope to do so in February. Mr. Chairman. I come now to Mr Schouten's area, so I try to answer as well as I can. It's about the calf sector. I know all about calf love, but I consider myself less expert on the calf sector. The question there was how the specific scheme worked out for the free calf farmers. This is indeed the purpose of the specific scheme for agricultural and horticultural costs. If I understood correctly, it was the problem of feeding calves, because they also want to have normal food at this time of course. This would not be covered by the fixed charges. Furthermore, there are some technical things about the VAT system, specifically for the sector that RVO is looking at. If you really want to know the details of this, I would ask you to be more specific with Mr Schouten. She really knows all about that. Mr President, I think that was the block of TVL. At least I did my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u58	So far, we have not been able to solve the problem of small entrepreneurs and the people living at their home address. For that, the Minister now refers to the TONK. Let me get this straight. Every entrepreneur who comes to a municipality and says "I have to close because I have to from the government and I keep to that; I don't have any income but I do have a fixed burden," both the loss of income and the fixed burden are included in the TONK scheme if one looks at what a reasonable custom solution is to support people. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u59	The TONK has been in continuous development, also since I left SZW. So I would really like to ask you to ask Minister Koolmees the specific questions about the TONK, who can give a good answer to them. We were seriously talking to municipalities almost daily about this. So he can give you the latest state of affairs. I'm not saying that to push it off, because I'm proud of the TONK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u60	This is important, because very often it is about loss of income, but now it is about a group that is simply not helped with its permanent burden as an entrepreneur. That's why I'm hitting. I will also do so with the Minister for Social Affairs, especially with regard to the people with whom the home address is now the problem. The same applies to many freelancers in art, for example. I got an answer for that. Thank you to my question about the module for events. I am pleased with that, but I had asked more broadly whether the cabinet would like to consult with the Task Force on cultural and creative matters and whether the Minister would like to see again with the VWS colleague whether we could do something specifically for booksellers, either with click and collect, or perhaps even with opening. Maybe that comes with 'other', but since it was now about the cultural sector, I ask the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u61	I'm willing to talk to anyone, but let me see who that's handy to do and what we have to do, because this is a little outside my scope. I'm gonna come back to click and collect and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr Aartsen, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u63	In August, 10.8 million was committed for the fairs and events. I hear a lot of signals that nobody is actually satisfied with that event module. In particular, the conditions would be a problem. Is the cabinet prepared to keep that under review again? It would be a shame if we had an arrangement that didn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u64	I also hear reports that it doesn't work out well for some, not everyone. Sometimes it's less than expected. Secretary of State Keijzer is constantly in conversation with the various clubs. But here too, a warning: we can't solve everything all the time. Of course, you take every signal that an arrangement doesn't quite bounce, but we talk crazy to everything and everyone. I think Secretary of State Keijzer has done everything he could by now, including in those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u65	That is true, but the reason why this regulation does not work is that the Secretary of State himself has made a number of conditions. I respect the problems of implementation, but let us not create them ourselves, I would add. Again the question of whether the cabinet is really willing to look at this arrangement with a little more confidence. It would be a real shame if we had an arrangement that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u66	I'm gonna take it wide. We constantly look at things that are wringing, but with expectations management.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u67	I did not ask my questions about the travel industry, the driving schools and the beauty specialists within the framework of the TVL. At the driving school keepers the cars stand still, but in the past they have bought packages. As a result, the periods to which reference should be made are wrong and there is no right to aid. I asked if we could not organize aid outside the TVL, specifically for these sectors, for entrepreneurs with an SBI code. I would urge you to look outside this TVL, outside the existing arrangements, to see how aid can be arranged for sectors where it is evidently going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u68	That's what we're doing all the time, of course. I know Mr Van Kent that it's really a little more complicated than that. You're gonna have to organize something around this too. We have a few times, like at the events, to see if we could go a little bit wider than that generic approach, but I really don't see the space anymore to set up new arrangements. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u69	Well, then we've got a problem. I also hear a lot of colleagues from other parties putting forward endless examples where things are clearly going wrong, where entrepreneurs who have less difficulty get support and where other entrepreneurs get nothing at all. We look at the examples here. Our mailboxes are buzzing out. We're getting calls. The Minister will probably be able to talk about that. And then it is not enough when it is said: sorry, we have the TVL and we look sector-specific here and there, but that's it. Again, the question to the Minister. Let's all make sure we don't have a shipwreck in front of the port. Let us get those sectors, those workers and those entrepreneurs through the last period. I'd like to take a broader look than the cabinet is doing to make sure we all make it to the finish line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u70	Of course, thinking never stops. I never sleep badly from work, but I can lie awake from the concerns of the examples I hear, just like you. Then I think: how can we do anything here? At the same time, in my introduction, I did not say anything for nothing: we opted for generic measures. It has the advantage of speed. It has the advantage of being feasible. That has the disadvantage that you will constantly encounter situations where it doesn't fit. We are also watching this outside the domain of the TVL. Take, for example, the TONK and everything we want to do with credits. One reason I'm reluctant to do this is not that I don't care about this. Mr Van Kent does not say that at all. That's shared in this whole room. People are watching this debate. I don't want to raise expectations that I may not be able to live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u71	It's always a repeat, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u72	Yeah, but yeah. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u73	I suggest you move on. I'm sure Mr Van Kent has a motion on this. It is, isn't it? That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u74	A lot has been said about the starters. We have finally reached this point, the Chamber says, and I understand that now it is possible to set up a regulation for starters who started last year. Unfortunately, that morning does not open yet, but at least on 1 May. In this context, we are also implementing the Dijkhoff motion and the others by adding 70 million in credits. Mr Aartsen's question was about a restaurant that started in October 2019. At least, then the key was given, so to speak. Then you have to remodel, get a permit, and so on. That is not what this regulation provides for at the moment. Partly because of the risk of overcompensation in other companies. Of course, you also have starters who are already running sales. You should always take a look at that. I would like to see whether this is still technically feasible, but that is the end of it. Mr Van Dijck gave fine examples. The problem is that at every border you set you get a group that sits for another month, or six months, and the individual story is true. We would all like to overcome that, but then we have to go back years in time to start assessing companies. It's getting too complicated. But perhaps this step is possible. I heard Mr Aartsen mention between nose and lips by a motion. We will then look at them and judge them very precisely. Then there was the idea, in my opinion, of several members, to come up with something other than the KvK registration you are currently working with. For example, this could be the date on which entrepreneurs have actually started. Then you're gonna have to do all kinds of things manually. Because when did someone start? When he sold his first sandwich? When he turned his first full day? When the doors opened? You can only judge that individually. That's just unbelievable. That is why we have KVK and VAT periods. This enables the assessment to be automated and thus it is possible for us to help as many entrepreneurs. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA asked about start-ups who didn't even start a company so much as who changed their registration. That is what we are looking at and working on, especially when it comes to purely administrative adjustments. But here too, reality is sometimes a little more complex than you would hope. Some changes require you to check whether a whole part or a small part of the company has been taken over, or whether something else has been done. That's gonna be unbelievable. We're just trying to see if we can still help them if it's really something purely administrative. Mr. Chairman. That was the cube of starters for me. Then I have some other questions, in the sense that they are not put together in a category. Questions have been asked about the automotive, aviation and the maritime sector. We have now announced this arrangement. That's what you read in the letter. This will mean that consortia of companies and knowledge institutions will be able to submit projects with a duration of about three or four years. I believe that Mr Bruins explicitly asked for this. They're all about to submit these projects. Then we're going to assess it and see what kind of money goes with it. The triplehelix philosophy is strongly intertwined with that. Mr. Chairman. Then there were a number of questions and ideas about how we deal with landlords and entrepreneurs. Let us also say that, fortunately, a lot is going well. I have heard many here say the same. There are a lot of big and small examples. I also know the examples of "send a chocolate cake this month, then it's good." Let's not lose sight of that. But it's also true that sometimes they get zero on the record. Secretary of State Keijzer also had another conversation this week with all those parties active in the rental business. She has also made an urgent appeal this week, and I think we all agree with that. There was a question whether we couldn't do something like Germany. That was the suggestion of some people here. We've been digging in on what they're actually doing there. In terms of material, they don't really do that much more than we do. There's no government enforcement to lower the rent. They've activated an article in the Civil Code, I hope I'm saying it right now, because real estate law is not my specialty, which makes it possible to open contracts in this kind of situation. In fact, that is already possible here. That is also where the individual conversation is concerned. I think it would be helpful at this point in time if the case-law of the Court indicated that the corona crisis should lead to a reduction in rent in all these cases. That is what we can do now. And even if you were to come up with something of a law that you would want more, there would be incredibly many practical and legal questions. I really hope we're all vaccinated before such a trajectory would end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u75	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u76	Maybe one more thing. Mr Aartsen asked about the municipality of Amsterdam. He asked Parliament questions about this. We're answering them, and they're headed his way. For the sake of clarity, I believe that there is something that is already possible, but let us do it very precisely. The answers to his parliamentary questions will be sent soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I don't think what the Minister says is enough. We do see that there are good examples, but the reason why we have almost all mentioned it is that we have received fire letters this week from a lot of entrepreneurs who are over the water. They say: I don't come out with my landlord, and we don't survive if, apart from the government and possibly banks, our landlords don't take any more steps. What is stopping the Minister or his Secretary of State from at least reaching an agreement with the big real estate clubs and their representatives, or otherwise making such a bill? In my view, only the threatening effect of this could be of enormous help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u78	On that agreement: I cannot unilaterally announce that a, and you must also be careful that you do not make the individual very favourable cases impossible. The latter would be another great risk. Secretary of State Keijzer is working hard on this, both publicly and in conversation with those real estate parties. There are many good examples in these talks too, and that is true, but there are too many where things are not going well, as Mr Smeulders says. But I can't say by decree that Pietje has to cut the rent by half. As a minister, I am also bound by everything we have laid down in laws and regulations. And the experts tell me that such a bill as they do in Germany does not substantially change what we are doing in the Netherlands. There's no enforceability in that either. And if you start working with enforceability, you end up in incredibly complicated discussions about property rights and so on. We want something done about it now, and I don't think you'll get out of it in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u79	I just said I really think there's more to it. The German example is mentioned. I think we should take a better look at that, because we have been told that it is hard to enforce. Anyway, no one's gonna get along with a well-nuke game. They do it in Spain. There's, hard to enforce, half of it at all restaurants. Where there's a will, there's a way. The Minister is quite right to say that I must abide by the law. It's got to be all over the Netherlands. In this house we have one big advantage: we can amend that law and we can make laws. I think it is very much necessary that we do so here. I am considering tabling a motion on this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u80	I would like to give some support to Mr Smeulders, because I think that the German proposal is really going to take steps there. It is true that it is indeed the activation of a law article, but then we must do so. I think that's important to the cabinet. This means that we put the tenants in a better position and we prevent that course of justice from getting there. That was also my question about this more active role, namely: is the cabinet prepared to deal with the German proposal or simply appeal to the municipality of Amsterdam? I don't even need to get answers to the parliamentary questions very quickly. I just want the Secretary of State to call the city of Amsterdam. Is the cabinet prepared to take a slightly more active attitude in this respect, because the need is really starting to rise for a number of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u81	The cabinet has that active attitude, really believe me. Secretary of State Keijzer is also working on this. I'm gonna see what I can do. If you'll allow me, I'm not going into an individual case right now. About Germany. Germany has opened a hook in a law that does not exist here. We can get that hook... It's all very technical, but that's not something that can happen in the Netherlands. They have their own legislation. It looks different from ours. That law offers the possibility of opening something up there, which is not so much material; at least that has been told to me in the legal field. Everyone's on top of this. It helps if I call it, if you call it, if Mr Smeulders calls it. Especially when Mr Smeulders calls it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u82	Then I think that Mr Smeulders and I are going to join forces by actually coming up with a motion, because I think we should talk about this legally in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u83	You've already announced that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u84	Yeah, we're coming up with a legal proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u85	Then we'll face that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u86	It does help if we all make some kind of moral appeal to the landlords. I can also imagine that as a government you say: we set an example. So as government and local government you can say: we just make the deal that affected entrepreneurs will be met. Whether that's 50% or 60%... Is the Minister prepared to demonstrate exemplary behaviour and agree with the UNG and a number of other governments that this policy will be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u87	Let me put it this way: I would be happy to discuss this with the VNG. I cannot unilaterally promise what another party is going to say, but I understand your suggestion. I'm going to see if I should do this or if I should do this with my colleague Ollongren. I understand very well where this question came from. I, or a colleague, if that's more obvious, love to talk about what's possible there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u88	For most entrepreneurs, the rent was the largest bottleneck. That is also acknowledged. I know that with questions about the TONK I have to wait for Mr Koolmees. If people really get stuck on the fixed charges related to the rent, can they call on the TONK?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u89	It's about the private situation. Mr Koolmees specifically addressed the TONK. The TONK sees the cost in the private sphere. That is what Mr Koolmees is going to discuss. By the way, the following applies here too. Of course, we have the situation where it doesn't work. At the same time, we don't only have the landlords where things are going well. We also have this package, which already covers 85% of the fixed costs. We do a lot of things with that, but so does Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr Van Dijck. A short question, as always.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u91	I don't know if the minister's done answering, but I had another question about the starters. I understood the following: if you want to be eligible for support this quarter, i.e. Q1 of 2021, then Q1 of 2019 will be looked at. Suppose I started in Q2 of 2019. Don't I get any support this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u92	Maybe we should just write him out just the two of us. All those Q's! For the starter scheme, look at Q3. Otherwise that would be a crazy situation, because then you have a starter situation where you look at 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u93	But that is a starter that started in the first half of 2020. I started in Q2 of 2019. I've been waiting and waiting. Finally I come to Q1 this year and I want to apply for support. You compare that to Q1 of 2019, but then I didn't exist and I didn't have any sales yet. Can't I get anything now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u94	Started in Q2 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u95	It's just "quarterly." By the way, that's with a k and not with a q, so everyone can listen in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u96	Yeah, quarter. I get a little confused, because Mr Van Dijck was just talking about starting in a certain quarter in 2019. Of course, the start-up scheme will only run from 1 January 2020. I would like to look at the extension advocated, among other things, by Mr Aartsen. If I understand your question correctly, you are asking me what the reference turnover is. I'm sorry, Mr President, it's terrible words for the wider start-up scheme. So that's Q3 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u97	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u98	This is very important. The reference turnover for this quarter shall be the first quarter of 2019. I didn't exist then, but right after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u99	That's why we're taking the third quarter of the starters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u100	I'm not a starter from the first half of last year. I started in April 2019, in the second quarter of 2019. My question is, can't I get anything now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u101	We have just talked about this, partly because of what Mr Aartsen said. As I said, this extension may be possible; I await the motion for a resolution. I did give the warning that at every border you lay you will have another matter. Suppose I take April 1, 2019. I think I'll run against the boundaries of the execution if I take it. Then there's someone from December 2018 who started and couldn't turn sales due to circumstances. You must, however annoying, draw a line somewhere. By definition, it will feel unjust if you're just on the other side of that date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u102	Then I suggest you move on. I think you're almost done. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u103	Yes. There were a number of questions about the perspective and exit strategy. I will try to do it together in the context of time. Everyone's longing for perspective. At least what we're trying to offer with the package of perspective is that we're not just significantly expanding it, we're just expanding it equally for two Q's, for two quarters. So that's for the next six months. That offers some certainty. Everything that has to do with perspective is or is ultimately about what happens to the virus. If only someone in this room had a button to help us determine that. We are, of course, also in the Cabinet, thinking in all kinds of ways about how, if the epidemiological picture allows, we might be able to scale down measures. I think there's a very broad feeling that at least we don't want the kids home anymore. Sorry, I mean, we're giving the kids good education again. No, they're really sweet. But everyone has that very high on the list. After that, you'll have to look at what's possible, what forms are possible. We talk a lot about this with the sectors, including myself, to make use of that creativity. You'd like to pin point all this with a date, but it doesn't have anyone, unfortunately. The same applies to click and collect. Often, the suggestion "Click and collect" has not been done for the first time. I can't anticipate what we're going to decide on at what point in time, but I can just imagine that this is one of the earlier steps you could take, because it would help a lot of people incredibly. Then perhaps finally on this point. We also announced in this letter that we want to come up with a letter in the spring on how to start the economy when the pandemic is over. In this respect, we will focus on what Mrs Van Brenk very much pointed out, for example, about the future solvency of all the companies that remain. You're gonna have to account for that. That's what we're gonna do. I also think that this is something that you should involve the forming parties at some point after the elections, because these are quite big decisions, which go much wider than just a specific own-fund scheme. But that is exactly what you will have to involve in this. A new issue is coming to us on that point. Mrs Van Brenn is absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u104	Have you dealt with all the points?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u105	Well, at least the way I wrote them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u106	Fine. Finally, Mr Aartsen has a short question, and then Mr Amhaouch, Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u107	It's about that exit strategy. I understand that the Minister cannot anticipate this and that there are discussions about it. My appeal and my question to the Minister is therefore: are you prepared to do so with as many trade associations as possible? That's actually what my question is about. They say, "Don't let one sector do anything and the other sector do nothing; look at how you can spread it a little bit. They prefer that both sectors should be allowed to open up a little bit, which is far from ideal, rather than completely opening up one sector and keeping the other completely closed. They have fantastic, creative ideas about that, and I would think it would be a shame if we left them in that exit strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u108	Yeah, that sounds nice to me at first sight, too. I'd be fine if I could get a haircut at 4:00 p.m., close it at 5:00 p.m. and go straight into the café. That would be fantastic. So this sounds interesting. I can't just say yes or no to that, but I like to pick up all those ideas. With all these things, of course, you have to look again at what the virologists think about it, what about enforcement and how we organize it all. But, of course, creativity is incredibly welcome and it is also with all those entrepreneurs. If I always find something inspiring, it's talking to entrepreneurs about new ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u109	I would like to continue on this same point. Take click and collect or the opening of the contact professions. I hope the cabinet already has some clarity about the protocols. If next week comes out that click and collect is possible, is there a protocol that has already been stamped by the RIVM that says: in this way and under these circumstances could that be possible? It should not be said next week: yes, we are going to investigate whether it is possible. That is, in my opinion, the lesson of the past: we often have good ideas and we say every time that the OMT or RIVM has to investigate and stamp it that it can. Can the Minister confirm whether the plans for click and collect and the contact professions have already been reviewed? Do we know that RIVM has said: under these conditions could they open?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u110	We're all watching that. I really can't anticipate that. Mr Amhaouch asks logical questions, which of course we do have, but we really need to go through the right steps, also in order to prevent us getting ahead of ourselves again. But, of course, these are all directions that we, as a cabinet, are also looking at and asking which we are trying to work out as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u111	It may also be that Minister Hoekstra is going to answer that question, but I had also raised the point that there are organisations and companies that are doing very well now. Could we not allow it to be paid into a solidarity levy for a fund? I'm still waiting for an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u112	At least it's not in my folder. I do not know whether Mr Hoekstra has prepared wise words for that. Otherwise we will have to say something about it in the second term. But I guess there's a little bit of complexity about that, too, because did you make more money from corona or because you've just been good? So I think this is gonna be complicated. But perhaps Mr Hoekstra is going to say something about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u113	Further on, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Aartsen. It is good that the Minister is ready to discuss reopening, exit strategy, with the industry organisations again. But I really can assume, may I hope, that the protocols that were made in April, May last year are still in the drawer in consultation with the trade associations? Think of the splash screens, the stickers on the floor, the arrows, the maximum number of people allowed to enter the store: all those appointments made by the branches and on which an agreement has been given by the RIVM and EZ. Surely I can assume that they can be pulled straight out so that those sectors can be opened up again in a safe way? That's been tested. Let's use that knowledge from last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u114	Yeah, there's no one who's gonna destroy protocols. At least, I haven't noticed that the week I was there. Of course, you take what you learned back then and maybe there are even more brilliant ideas. I'd say that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment with the switch until the chair is cleaned. Then the Minister for Social Affairs will have the floor. I call the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u116	Thank you, Madam President. I've got five cubes. Block one is small entrepreneurs/Tozo/TONK. Two is leave. Three is homework. Four and five are NOW and developable, but both consist of one question, so that goes very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u117	Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u118	First of all, I would like to mention the small entrepreneurs and the Tozo and the TONK, in line with what Mr Van 't Wout has just said about this. We have also seen, of course, over the past period, that many smaller entrepreneurs are at risk of falling apart, because they cannot rely on TVL or on income support. We have looked at a number of schemes in this package and adapted them to better reach the smaller entrepreneurs. Of course, we have the Tozo, and we have the Tozo with retroactive effect. From 1 January it is also in the package. Secondly, we have made TVL more accessible by doubling the minimum grant amount and also lowering the threshold. Mr Van 't Wout just said that. He will also look for a further step in the direction of Gijs van Dijk. I have heard from many smaller entrepreneurs that in the first phase many entrepreneurs have made use of the TOGS, the €4,000 scheme. That was a very good arrangement for a lot of hairdressers or beauty specialists, for example, to bridge a short period of time. From that point of view, we have now adapted the TVL, just to give it a wider range. Thirdly, we have the new starter scheme, which is rigged in addition to the existing TVL, precisely to give the starters who started after a certain date access to the TVL. Fourthly, we have extended a number of criteria, such as, for example, the hour criterion for the self-employed, in order to meet the small self-employed, as well as the relaxed conditions in credit schemes such as the SMEB, the Qredits and the Small Credit Corona. All added together are more schemes that give more room for smaller entrepreneurs to get support. That said, there are still people who are in danger of falling between ship and ship. That is why, also in good consultation with the municipalities, we have thought about: what could we possibly think of for that? That's where the TONK finally came on the table, the Temporary Support Necessary Costs. Why did we do that? Because both self-employed, small DGAs and people with a flex contract who are not entitled to a WW benefit or a welfare allowance also threatened to fall between shore and ship. You have to make a distinction in that, too. A number of examples have often passed through this debate, for example someone with a partner with a small income but an expensive home. That could be someone with a temporary contract, azzp'er or someone with a small enterprise. For example, he has a partner with a gross income of €1,500, but a high mortgage or high fixed charges. We have found together with the municipalities that we actually have nothing for that. That's why we came up with the TONK. Is that the panacea for everything? No, I'm not. We are not going to live up to all the high expectations, which are also living in your Chamber today. At the same time, we see that tailor-made work must be possible to meet this group. As a result... Oh, Mrs. Van Brenk already has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u119	I think it's important that we get this done. It's about the Tozo, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u120	Yeah, the Tozo, the TONK and the little entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u121	The TONK...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u122	TONK and Tozo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u123	The people who are following the debate know what it is about, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u124	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u125	All those abbreviations... Mrs Van Brenk will have the floor later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u126	Let me come back to the question that has been raised a number of times in previous debates, including my predecessor. It's about the partner test at the Tozo. Yes, we have been in contact with the VNG. It has been confirmed that disabling the partner income test is not possible. The deletion of the partner income test puts the municipal execution capacity under heavy pressure. I would like to say here that the municipalities have already received a great deal of work from us. Think of more welfare benefits, the Tozo and helpingzzp'ers find a new job. But think also of the support and recovery package, the guidance of people from benefit to work or from job to job. We ask a lot of the municipalities. If we start stacking more now, we're really gonna get the municipalities in big trouble. That is why we have said that we are not introducing the power test we intended to introduce on 1 April. We also do this to give some space to the municipalities in the execution, so that they can also perform the TONK. Many tasks have been added for the municipalities and I am very grateful to the municipalities for their implementation. But we must also note with each other that they are under pressure. So we must be careful not to add any more tasks, otherwise we will be riding the horse behind the cart. What's the TONK for? The TONK is intended for households who, in current circumstances, have to deal with an unforeseen and inevitable decline in their income and are therefore no longer able to meet their necessary costs. The largest item is probably the residential charges: the mortgage or the rent, the necessary costs. That's how we built the TONK. However, there is a decentralised policy area. That's also necessary, because it's about customization. One situation is really incomparable with the other. Suppose you have two people who are, in a manner of speaking, the same. One person can have a very expensive house and the other a very cheap one, but one can see: I can't just move, because there are no houses available in my municipality that I can go into in the short term. So there can be a difference in the support of individuals and that is also necessary to be able to offer customization. This is also based on the special assistance instrument. We are now making a handout to the municipalities to guide this a little bit, not through central lines or policies, but more in the sense of: think about this. That's what we do to support the municipalities a little bit. That's almost finished. That was also Mr Van Kent's question, namely: does it lead to regional disparities? Yes, you can, because this is about the local policy freedom of municipalities. They can apply this. This also fits in with the task they are currently carrying out, for example in the framework of the Participation Act and the Special Assistance. But because we want to help the municipalities a little, we are working on this hand-out, to have some kind of guidance in the further development of the policy. But there may be differences. That is also necessary, because the housing market in Amsterdam is different from the housing market in Rotterdam, Delft or Apeldoorn. That is why we need to make these local differences possible. How's the effect coming? So we're working very hard on that hand-off. Again, we ask a lot of municipalities in their implementation practice to implement it all in the short term. We hope that municipalities will be able to implement this quickly. It is being worked hard, but they still need a number of weeks to be operational. The good news is that it can go back to 1 January with retroactive effect, which can also help people. Mrs Van Brenk asked if the TONK would also offer a solution for retired entrepreneurs. If the overall capacity of a household has been reduced by a sudden inevitable decline in income due to the corona crisis, which means that the necessary costs of the household can no longer be paid, citizens could be eligible for TONK income support. This always includes the fact that retired entrepreneurs already have the AOW. There's already some kind of income support in there, but in theory it could. The last two questions in this block concern the border workers. This is often a point that comes back to the CDA Group but also to the Labour Party. The border workers have no right to Tozo. That is true, because the Tozo is based on the Participation Act, i.e. on the Bbz, which is not exportable under Regulation 883, which you have discussed regularly with me in connection with the export of WW benefits to Poland, Bulgaria and Romania. Because of the principle of equality, it is therefore not possible for only Dutch self-employed persons living abroad to qualify for the Tozo. Then you should actually do it with all entrepreneurs who have work in the Netherlands but live outside the Netherlands. We have correspondence with the Commission on this. Senator Oomen in the First Chamber has asked me to make the correspondence public. I had that checked with the European Commission yesterday, so it will come soon, perhaps today... You've already got it? Great! I can do all kinds of things at once: I can answer and send letters. So if it's all right, you have it at your disposal. Then the final point. Mr Amhaouch said that the Commission had an inquiry into this point. I'm not familiar with that. It is, of course, the Commission itself that is investigating this. I want to find out what's going on with that. We'll be in good contact. I have nothing to hide, but it is not known to me and therefore I cannot respond to it either. Mr. Chairman. That was the TONK/Tozo block about the small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u127	I have Mrs Van Brenk, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u128	I am very happy to hear that at least there is a possibility for retired entrepreneurs to apply for the TONK. I just got another e-mail from someone who now has to live alone for $800. So you can imagine that at least that offers a perspective. In my contribution I mentioned the example of a hair salon here in The Hague: a single woman who gets the Tozo. Can you, if you can't get around and she really can't ask for the TONK next to the Tozo?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u129	Of course, I can't look at the specific case, because I don't know the background. The Tozo is just a minimum income. That's real for living. A stacking of Tozo and TONK is not obvious to me, but that is purely intuitive. I haven't thought about this anymore. For the fixed loads that belong to the hairdressing salon, we have of course developed the TVL. I see that Mr Van Weyenberg is looking at the problem of lowering the thresholds, in order to make it easier for small businesses to access them. We have also doubled the subsidy amount from €750 to €1,500 that sits with the Minister of Economic Affairs in order to meet those small entrepreneurs more in that cost. I think this entrepreneur will be helped by this package by both means. But again, the specific circumstances I cannot fully assess. So I find it difficult to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u130	You don't expect that to be a combination at first, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u131	Well, maybe you could. I'm going to go back to that in the second term. Now I can't completely peel off whether that's obvious or not. It is, of course, about support for necessary costs. In that sense, it could be. At the same time... Well, I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u132	That is indeed an interesting question, because you can imagine people who are so between ship and ship and outside all other regulations that this is not enough. So I'm curious about the answer. I have another question. The Tozo now know entrepreneurs. The TONK has never actually heard of anyone; I notice that when I talk to entrepreneurs. That's not weird either, because he's not here yet. We should also look...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u133	You really need to press the microphone button properly. Otherwise take this microphone; that's much easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u134	This is working a lot better, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Those entrepreneurs just don't know it's coming yet. I'm getting a lot of worries from people I can say to: there's a TONK coming. They say, "I don't know." Are we really going to do everything in our power to make the most of this information? Many groups which are now excluded from all kinds of rules could, in any case, receive basic income support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u135	That is a valid point. We really need to be tailor-made in this and we need to be able to provide this information. Let me take a look at my colleague from Economic Affairs. Well, I think we've got that covered, don't we? Yes. We are now working hard on the task force. Then, of course, the municipalities have to get to work and implement it in the systems. Let me make a promise in your direction that I will see if we can bring this to the attention of the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u136	The municipalities have indicated that they can implement the scheme with 130 million generously. I will also table a motion in second term, but I would like to hear it in this debate of the Minister. As far as I am concerned, the available budget is not relevant here. I'm also a tax spokesperson, so I'm not gonna say that soon. This is the safety net. If the municipalities had said "we need double," we would have double-checked. Can the Minister just say here: the budget is whatever it takes to be able to implement the regulation that is now in place generously? I know I don't ask him that much. We all do not know how the corona crisis develops over the next few weeks and months. We learned that lesson together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u137	We have already promised this, even in the previous debate, when we talked about the creation of the TONK. We have also had discussions with the municipalities, with the VNG, on the budget, also in the run-up to the extension of the recovery package. Honesty commands us to say: we have no idea. We don't know exactly how many people want to use that. So we're holding a finger on the wrist. We have also made an agreement with the municipalities that they will come back to us if necessary. Then we'll come back to you to keep the finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u138	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u139	It's good to have you back with us. Once again, I shall also table a motion on this subject in the second term. But I really hope that the cabinet will say: we have this arrangement as a safety net; we want to offer it to everyone, because it is there. Then money should not be a reason for municipalities to be less generous in the future. So wasn't the answer to my previous question really just yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u140	We are now allocating EUR 7.6 billion extra for support. Together, the total amount of support amounts to EUR 61 billion. Budgetary considerations have never played a role here. Of course, we have always looked at what is necessary, what is sensible and what is rationally sensible policy? Mr Van Dijk nods. Very good. That is part of the consideration that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u141	Well... You're supposed to be so careful what you say in non-verbals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u142	61 billion! That's a lot of money. 61,3, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u143	It is about the entrepreneurs who live just across the border, in Germany and Belgium. They have a real problem. The CDA has been asking from the beginning how we can meet these people. It's a lot of loner business. So the Tozo is of enormous importance there. If the Tozo can't do otherwise, we might make a lot of people happy in Europe, and we might not want to do that. What can we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u144	These entrepreneurs can, of course, be eligible for the TVL, the NOW and all those schemes that are available. You know that. If it really is about sole proprietorship, aboutzzp'ers, who have no fixed burdens and live just across the border, then it is the responsibility of the country of residence to organise income provision for them. That's the legal basis, I'll say. We are also in consultation with our neighbouring countries because it is mainly about Germany and Belgium to see if we can do something for this group. But the point is, of course, that perhaps sounds a bit technocratic that the Tozo is based on the Participation Act. The Participation Act is a welfare allowance, a social minimum benefit, which is not exportable. I would warn you not to make this regulation exportable, because I am afraid that we will have a very different matter on our hands. Then we have another debate in six months, but on how could this minister have been so strange to make this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u145	Yeah, we'll always look into that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u146	Yeah, you can. That's your job, too. Otherwise, it would be bread robberies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u147	But I see that problem. That road will then actually be closed, because it simply does not come within the European context. However, the tragedy of living in a border region is that such a border is fluid. If you're going to take a walk around Nijmegen, you'll walk in Germany in no time, when you don't even know about it yourself. Now there's government intervention and there's just need. I would therefore like to call on at least through Germany and through Belgium to come up with some kind of construction to meet these people, because they feel a little abandoned and I actually understand them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u148	I understand, too. Of course, we have been working for some time to see what we can do for this group, but if you would, so to speak, say that a random community near the Tozo should provide the Tozo and if you want to settle that neatly and also create legal equality for all people, you should also lay it down in a law or in a regulation. Then be careful what you wish for, I will tell your Chamber, because then you will have a very different discussion. All people who live outside the Netherlands but work regularly in the Netherlands could also benefit from a welfare allowance. I don't think that's what your room wants. So I say that it is easy to say, but it is more difficult to realize.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u149	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u150	Finally. Is there any perspective with those talks with Germany and Belgium, just in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u151	I have to come back to that. I don't know. I only got this wallet last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u152	Well, here's the thing. Seven of the twelve Dutch provinces border on Germany or Belgium. So it's not just a thing. That's why the CDA keeps calling attention to this every time. The cabinet itself said that there are about 3,500. Suppose it's 3,500 and it's a third... I agree that we shouldn't be exporting the assistance. If about a third of the 3,500 were to be eligible, then all of this could be looked at. There are also center municipalities, such as Maastricht, that organize the Tozo today. There is therefore no need to be a problem in terms of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u153	I don't think it's a question of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u154	If you don't mind me finishing the questions, I'll come to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u155	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u156	Take it easy, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u157	The question is: should bilateral agreements with Germany and Belgium be able to put an end to this discussion with this limited scale of the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u158	Again, I will come back to the situation in the second term, but it is not 1,200 or 1,500 people for whom you could do this. That's not the bottleneck. I want to take that image away, too. There are about 500,000 to 600,000 people working in the Netherlands from outside the Netherlands who regularly work here in the Netherlands. Of these, there may be 100,000 entrepreneurs. I'm gonna do this with a wet finger, because I don't know exactly. If you hang on to such construction rights, you'd actually say you'd want to give all these 100,000 people welfare benefits. You do not want that and I do not want that, but that is the consequence if you say: it is a small group and we can do it for that. I am going to ask what is going on with the discussions with Belgium and Germany, and I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u159	It is right that attention should be paid to border workers. I would like to continue with the Tozo and the partner test, because the second aid package said that we would be more in line with existing social security. The creed to the third support package was: we're going to normalize. Then the cabinet faced a second wave, which was particularly intense, and a lockdown that went much further than the first lockdown. The question to the Minister is whether there would be anything to do about that partner test. For I have read the letter that your predecessor sent to the First Chamber, and the problems that are raised in it are really to be seen. That's about taking a form offline and putting another form online. That's also about problems when post-payment should take place. You could choose a moment in the future, so that after payment is not a problem. The biggest objection I see is the extra commitment of people because more benefits need to be provided, but I think that is exactly what the intention is: people who need that help, who also need it. So please don't let our ears hang with the VNG or with the problems that are being raised there. Let us look above all at what needs to be done and at the possibilities that exist. And those possibilities are there; I am really convinced of that. If we want this together, we can do this, because a test goes away. And yes, more benefits must be provided, but that is exactly what this minister should want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u160	That was Mr Van Kent's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u161	I'm absolving myself from qualifying "Hanging ears to the VNG." I really think that they are doing a great deal of injustice to the situation that the municipalities are facing. They work very hard and do their stinking best to help and support people in welfare, in the Tozo and in finding another job. So I really think Mr Van Kent is out of line there. That's one. Two. The VNG also sent a letter to your Chamber this week, stating: please do not make any more changes, because we already have so much on our plate. So yes... this is going to be a repeat of moves, because we've been over this a few times. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u162	I see you looking very angry, Mr. Van Kent. Short, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u163	Well, look angry, Chairman... it concerns so many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u164	Yes. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u165	And this comes from so many people who follow this debate very hard, those bureaucratic arguments that are always put forward by this minister on the basis of which it is all for computer and implementation technical reasons... I read it here: there must be a form taken offline and there must be... Yes, that is in the letter that your predecessor sent to the First Chamber. Dear Minister, the end of this terrible pandemic could possibly be in sight if the cabinet does its job well. Let's get these people through this final phase of the crisis. Delete that partner test and make sure that people who really need this are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u166	I also find this annoying and I distance myself from it. They are not bureaucratic arguments. They are performers: UWV, SVB, the RVO and the municipalities. The municipalities are technically not an executive but a co-governing body, but they do implement a lot of social security schemes for us. They're doing their stinking best for that, and we've asked a lot of them. These are not bureaucratic arguments, and I find it very faint that Mr Van Kent is making this a political game, as if bureaucratic arguments were the reason not to do so. No, it's not. What we have done, because we do see the problem that people are at risk of falling between the shore and the ship, is that, in consultation with the same municipalities, we have rigged the TONK to offer more customization and also more support for people really need it. So don't make that a political game, Mr Van Kent, and don't say "bureaucratic arguments and computer says no," because all these people are doing their stinking best to provide income to 100,000 companies and hundreds of thousands of people who depend on benefits. So I'm really gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u167	Okay, yeah. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u168	Leave. Mr. Smeulders, especially for you: a block of leave. I have a somewhat longer introduction, because we have of course looked at this very closely and much over the past period. The cabinet, and in particular this narrow section of the cabinet, with the three young fathers, understands very well that the closure of schools requires a lot from all those involved. It makes a big change for parents and also for children. With a lot of art and flying work one keeps the home front running, teaches one's home education and combines it with work from home. The cabinet therefore greatly appreciates the working parents and employers who deal with this situation as flexibly as possible and agree on it together. There are a lot of them, I know from practice. Employers really have an eye for the situation where many home-working parents are in. We also see that solutions often involve costs for both parties or one of the parties involved. That is why, together with social partners and implementation, we have also explored ways of meeting employees and employers in this situation. Previously, we looked at possibilities for paid quarantine leave, to encourage workers to actually comply with quarantine rules. This has also proved to be complicated in the implementation process. Also facilitating parents with school children has been investigated before, for example by looking at what they do abroad and whether we can learn from it. Recently, after the closure of schools and childcare institutions, we have looked again at all kinds of options. One of these options was to give employees the right to additional leave paid by the employer and to compensate employers in a targeted way. That would be fair, to divide the burden a little bit. We have also looked at calamity leave which is of course of short duration, aimed at calamities and short-term care leave. Short-term care leave is now two weeks every 12 months, compared with 70% of the wage. By the way, to extend that, you're gonna need a law change, but that's what we've been looking at. This variant of short-term care leave has also been discussed with the social partners. There was little enthusiasm about that. Why not? Because we've been looking every time for a way to compensate. We have no way of compensating employers for these costs. We have finished all variants and looked at possibilities, even at the UWV for example. The UWV is at the cost of what it can still handle technically, so that cannot have and implement such a new regime. But we've seriously checked all the options. Why is it so hard? It's so hard because there's no record of leave in our systems. In the Netherlands, we have the system that employers and employees are jointly responsible for this. There is no central registration of who is eligible for leave. We're working on that, but you declared that controversial yesterday. But that aside. That's the paid parental leave. No, not you, Mr. Smeulders, but other parties in this Chamber. By the way, it must have been introduced before a certain date, otherwise you will be fined. But that aside. Where was I? So we don't have a system that records it. But we have even gone so far as to say to Mr Smeulders that we have looked at generic compensation. What could you possibly think of in order, so to speak, to compensate all employers in the Netherlands for these costs? But then you end up in the situation that all employers, including those who do not use it or those who are very busy, such as the supermarkets or online shops, get this compensation, when they do not have this problem. Or think of companies that are still and are receiving NOW support, where there is no such problem. They'd get money, too. All in all, it would be unfocused. It would always be too little for the companies to which it really relates, and too much for those who do not suffer from it. We have even explored a third step, an opportunity to accommodate parents, for example through the generic form of child benefit. We also looked at them. The following also applies, of course. €100 per child in a quarter already costs 220 million. Well, that may not be the most important consideration, but I don't think you're helping those parents because it doesn't do justice to the problems of the home-working parents and the children sitting there. The most important thing is indeed that schools and childcare institutions are reopened. You know what the state of affairs is there. That's what the cabinet was talking about this week. Mr. Chairman. Why do I do this broad, general introduction? We have done a great deal to identify what is possible, what is feasible and what is also effective and fits the problem, but we have not yet been able to find it. Honestly, I have also challenged people a number of times, people who sat at my table and said: I want to. Then I said help me think; then invent something that can be done. The honest answer is that there will be little, because we do not have a system in the Netherlands with which we can control it. Then you're in a situation where you have to compensate without being able to check that it happens. Then it becomes very sensitive to fraud and misuse. So all in all, we've done our best, but we haven't found it yet. We wrote in last week's letter that we would like to check with social partners to see if there are any mouse holes left. Let's face it, I'm a little thought-out. We have finished five or six variants, a bit similar to the TOFA, which we have also worked out in six variants. But I have promised the trade unions in particular that we will pick it up again and also go with the performers to see what they are up against. But here's the situation. In practical terms, Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether we also discussed care leave. Yes, we discussed that and submitted it. There was, I understand, little appreciation for, or little response. Why? Because we can't compensate the employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u169	Was that about the leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u170	Yes. I think I have answered almost all the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u171	Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer and for the search. I understand it's not easy. We can see that 20 other European countries have succeeded. In a number of places it may have been easier, but I do not think it has been easy there either. In the end, the political leaders, the leaders of the country, said: we think it is so important that we are going to find a way to deal with this. I understand that this minister has an incredible amount of work, just like the cabinet, and can't take care of everything at once. I would just like a response from the Minister to the doom scenario that I see, which we all hope will not happen. But what if the British version doesn't work out and the primary schools can't open in a couple of weeks? Then this situation will not last very long. Then perhaps it is time for some more generic measures to ensure that all parents who are struggling are compensated. Is the Minister prepared, together with the social partners, to challenge them; would I also like to table a motion to look at a form of corona leave in case, unfortunately, the school closure is going to take longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u172	First of all, I would like to respond to part of Mr Smeulder's speech, because I am a little irritated about this too, a little along the lines of Mr Van Kent's speech. I'm not making up bureaucratic reasons for why I don't want something. That is not the case at all. I see the problem, just like the struggle. Again, all three of us see that. That's one. Two. We have looked at the arrangements in other countries, such as Norway, Austria, Belgium and Germany. The big difference is that these countries already have a form of paid parental leave. They already have an existing structure in which they are kept up to date and checked, which they have used for corona leave. As I said, we do not have that structure. The bill for that is in your Chamber, but before this is built into the systems, we'll be a year away. So we can't just use that system. To charge the UWV with the development of such a system again: I simply cannot ask the UWV to do so. So I want to keep my distance: it's not a matter of leadership or even doing it. No way. We really did our best. Two. I shall go back to Mr Smeulders: of course we will continue to talk, including with the social partners, to see what might be possible. But I'm also being honest. I don't want to raise false expectations that I can't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u173	Quite frankly, the cabinet has given rise to false expectations. Minister Slob simply said on television: we are working on something, because it is not sustainable and we are going to make budget available. If the Minister is going to say to me that I am too harsh and he is going to distance himself from it, I say that the cabinet has not only raised expectations with me as a Member of Parliament, but also with the people that something will come. But I would also like to move towards this minister, because I also see that he is doing his best. Consider my plea on behalf of all those people who are really in trouble now and who may be even more in trouble now as a plea to the social partners, because they have as much responsibility in this as the cabinet. I also think that the trade unions and employers should take that responsibility. I really cannot imagine that it is not going to work out in a few weeks' time if everyone is doing their stinking best, especially the trade unions and the employers. That is the appeal I would like to make to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u174	I think you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u175	In the letter we sent last week, by the way, we wrote that we are going to do so with the social partners, and that the possibilities for implementation also expire. Last week, when Mr Slob made this statement, we were still very hopeful, I say in defence of Mr Slob. I was at the Catshuis when Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Slob walked out and it was about primary schools and childcare. Again, we have earmarked 7.6 billion for this additional package. Again, a financial contribution is not the issue. It's really looking for what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u176	I suggest you continue your work at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u177	Homework. There were questions about this from Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg. Since the outbreak of the corona crisis, the department of SZW has been continuously in consultation with employers' and employees' organisations on the promotion and facilitation of homework. Several initiatives have emerged from this. The first concerns information and tools that can help employers in shaping homework. Together with VNO-NCW we started the campaign "Homework is top sport." Employers have the possibility, under conditions, to reimburse unpaid costs for home work facilities to employees. So that is also on the fiscal side in the package before us. In order to further emphasise and promote the importance of homework, the Cabinet will work together with employers' and employees' organisations to establish general criteria. This should lead to a handle for individual employers to shape this better and also to help balance homework. Last week, I think, there was a motion by Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. Is that right? Broader, wider. There were at least two motions on homework in the Corona debate last week. We have also extended the cost of work for employers so that homework costs can also be reimbursed. The NOW. Mr Smeulders asked: do the same conditions apply to bonuses and dividends as for the first two tranches? The short answer is yes. Mr Amhaouch asked whether the payment of the NOW could be made more quickly. The practice is that it happens very quickly. I have recently received a lot of reports from entrepreneurs that companies have money in their accounts quickly. As soon as the UWV receives an application for payment to NOW advance payments, an advance payment will be made shortly thereafter. This is done in three instalments. We have designed this because 1. is connected to the regular pay rhythm of salaries, 2. the risk of abuse and misuse is reduced, because you can stop the intermediate if there are signs of improper use, and 3. any remaining payments, for example in the event of bankruptcy, can be countered in this way. For NOW periods, as a rule, the time at which a particular tranche may be applied for falls in the middle of the period. This period shall begin on 15 February January, February and March. Then they'll be paid soon afterwards. It is not possible to advance the application dates. This is simply not possible in the implementation, because at the moment the control of NOW 1, the advances and the payment of NOW 2 and the advances of NOW 3 are all mixed up. If it is correct, you have received a technical briefing from the UWV on the SZW committee. These are all periods of time within which certain steps can be taken. We can't deviate from that. That makes the whole process chaotic. Mr Amhaouch also asked a question about the high audit costs. There was a piece about that in The Financial Daily. I think that your Chamber agrees with me that it is important that, in the case of larger grants, it should be an advance above €100,000 in advance or a grant above €150,000 in advance, and a statement that it is lawful should be made. For that club, we asked for an audition. Together with the NBA, the professional organisation, I have developed a protocol for that. It accounts for about 10% of employers. 90% of employers are below that amount of €150,000 and they can use a lighter test, a tax consultancy firm or the accountant who can provide some kind of statement that it is the truth. For the large amounts, we ask for an audit report. It is true that this costs money, but legality is also important. I think the Chamber would say something to me if it didn't. Together with the NBA, we have tried to keep it as lean and mean as possible and to align it as much as possible with the regular audit of the annual accounts in order not to do double tasks. So... period, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u178	That's how you answered all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u179	No, two more. Mr Bruins had a question about lifelong development and deficit sectors. I very much agree with that. In the package, we pay great attention to retraining towards the deficit sectors. We have indeed spoken with the industrial coalition. We're gonna go through with those conversations. So this is entirely in line with our policy commitment. Those talks with the industrial coalition are still ongoing. Finally. Can pension funds share personal data? That was also a question from Mr Bruins. The question has been brought to my attention by R&D funds. We're going to talk to BZK to see if there's a solution to this. These were the questions that lie with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u180	A quick question. It's a really short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u181	A very short question about these deadlines. Indeed, in December they quickly received the first deadline. But it is the companies that do not get the 30% that are in the TVL and stick to 20%-25%. So the TVL is 0. In fact, they will receive an amount for the fourth quarter, which will be paid in instalments in the first quarter. I know that the execution here can be a bottleneck again. I would ask the UWV to pay the third term as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u182	Those possibilities are very limited. Each week there is a new task, which must be scheduled in a block schedule. NOW 1, 2, 3.1 and 3.2 are all performed side by side. NOW 3 applies to 80,000 to 100,000 companies. That flexibility doesn't have the UWV and I don't want to ask them, because then I really get them into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u183	The question of reintegration has remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u184	Yes. It's about the starter scheme from the WW. In the meantime, if you have a WW benefit, you can also have your own business streets, for example as a zzp'er. At the end of that period, the WW owner at the UWV can indicate that he continues as an entrepreneur or still stops entrepreneurship and returns to the benefit. But there is also a middle way, for example part-time entrepreneurship. That possibility is already in the scheme, which makes customization possible. The current regulations offer sufficient customization for the UWV to give space here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u185	If only it were that simple, I'd like to say. This is a hairdresser around the corner, on the Denneweg. It started October 1st in that arrangement as azzp'er. He rents a chair at a hair salon. He has six months to set up his business to become self-sufficient in income. He has to stop working because of the lockdown. The benefit ends at some point. There is therefore no such follow-up to those six months, because the WW-period is of course finite. In other words, we are talking about a trajectory here, unfortunately in a sector that has to do with a lockdown, where someone really gets in trouble and where, in all reasonableness, I think we are all saying: this is not what we want. That is why I put this forward as an example. Also in other reintegration pathways, periods have been fixed or agreed which are linked to the duration of the benefit, for example, of the WW, but also of the WGA pay-related benefit. Those periods end, so people can't complete their journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u186	I hadn't heard this nuance in the question. Mr Van Kent actually says that in the meantime the benefit has ended, because people have used their full duration of WW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u187	The benefit is going to be terminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u188	The scheme is so that during the WW benefit you can start as an entrepreneur, without losing your benefit, to help you get started. If that doesn't work, you can quit again after six months and the benefit just goes on. But if the benefit is terminated, people no longer have WW rights, then you are eligible for another scheme, namely the Participation Act. If you would like to change that, you should extend the duration of the WW benefit. That's a whole different chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u189	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u190	This is exactly what this is about. The trajectory is thus stopped by the lockdown beyond the fault of this hairdresser. The WW benefit ends. The period ends. Now the Minister's response is: then there is the assistance. In this case, of course, that is not the answer we would like to give this hairdresser together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u191	I don't want to, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u192	The question to the Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to review this type of temporal arrangement. I understand he may not be able to give that to me right now. Can he ask UWV if there is any possibility of extending such arrangements? So I am not asking for a firm commitment to settle this for this hairdresser, but a general commitment to submit this to the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u193	This sounds very sympathetic, but there is something else coming from underneath, which is really fundamental. You have to say something about the duration of the WW benefit. That is a fundamentally different choice. If it is only about customization, the ability to adjust and take account of the situation, then I say very quickly: yes, of course. I also know that the UWV does that in practice. However, this is a different question in essence. This concerns the completion of the WW benefit, even if the maximum period has been reached. That is a much more fundamental question. I can't just say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u194	I will go to Mr Bruins and then to Mr Van Weyenberg. Or, who was there before? Have you guys gotten that together yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u195	Mr Bruins was definitely earlier, but because my question was in line with the previous one, Mr Bruins was kind enough to switch places with me. Thank you for that, I say to Eppo. I'm looking into Mr Van Kent's question. I understand what the Minister says when it comes to the end of the WW. I understand he can't extend the maximum WW duration here on the spot. I would actually need to get on paper how the coulance is applied to the start-up scheme. I also sometimes get signals from people that after the six-month period there will be some sort of moment of choice and that they do not want to make that choice yet. On the basis of the case-law which has reached me, I cannot entirely deduce whether that is the moment of the end of the WW or whether it does not agree, but that the scheme will simply stop. Could the Minister put us on paper as to what this arrangement is like now? How is it handled in practice because of corona? The Minister spoke about this. And are there any possible bottlenecks there? Without entering into a fundamental discussion on the extension of the WW, I am certainly concerned about this. I'm telling you honestly, I just can't totally oversee it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u196	I'd like to give you my word on that. My information is that if someone cannot act independently as an entrepreneur, there is also a middle way. You can then partially go on as a self-employed person. If you do have WW rights, you can partially revive the benefit. That's still the point. But I'm gonna put it on paper so that your entire room can enjoy our knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u197	I would like to thank the Minister for his speedy but very generous commitments at the end about re-training. He's gonna talk to the industrial coalition. He wants to talk to the State Department about the possible exchange of data. I have a question about deficit sectors and surplus sectors. Can I ask the Minister, in the talks with the industrial coalition, to discuss the possibility of linking it less to that one employee in a surplus sector? Can it be made possible in the supplementary social package to look at matching infrastructure and training infrastructure? This will allow people from surplus sectors to be driven to the deficit sectors in large numbers, to train large numbers of people at the same time and to be able to match employers. So it depends less on the person, but really on the infrastructure, to make that possible within the sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u198	Then I'm gonna give you a longer answer. I'll try to answer briefly. Within the package we have extensive attention to retraining towards deficit sectors. The Ministry of EZK has the scheme for the subsidy of intensive retraining pathways towards technical professions and ICT professions. In addition, we also have pathways in care and education through VWS and OCW. So we have industrial coalition talks going on. The technical sectors are also involved. In addition to the above mentioned schemes aimed at deficit sectors, we also have other opportunities for retraining, namely NL is learning through. For that we have the 64 million available for free education. Sectors can also claim the €72 million for retraining, development advice and support to other jobs. That's exactly where this point is. In fact, I am referring to Mr Gijs van Dijk's guarantee jobs. How do we ensure that people with jobs in a sector where jobs are disappearing can be helped towards a sector where there are job vacancies? That is what we are trying to do with the social partners, and this training can be part of it. So that's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u199	Finally, Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u200	In a previous debate, the Minister has already promised that the funds will be spent not only by the public authorities but also by the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u201	Matched with R&D money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u202	Yeah, it matches R&D money. If that can go more towards an infrastructure goal and not just one-on-one goes to the employee and the employer, then I think the talks with the industrial coalition can be very fruitful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u203	Yes. The discussions with the various deficit sectors, where fortunately for people looking for work there are still job vacancies and jobs, are also very fruitful. That is why unemployment has continued to fall to 3.9% in recent months. So there are also positive developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u204	Although it is the expectation, I read just now that 103 000 unemployed will be added this year. Last year, if I say it right, there were 89,000 on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u205	Those are indeed the UWV figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u206	I asked a question about civil society organisations and, in particular, about foundations that organise activities. They're basically falling all over the place. They often organise meetings for young people, older people and women and then get a little profit from the catering industry and perhaps from the rental of space. Those foundations are not doing anything at the moment and I have heard from a number of really some kind of cry for help: we are not eligible for anything. The accountant says, "If that's what you want, it's not about anything. It's up to 11%, because you're a foundation." The TVL is complicated and they have no personnel costs, because they work almost alone with volunteers. We are very much looking for a way of getting a little compensation for these fixed charges. My question to the Minister is whether he can do something for this type of organisation, and he can think about it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u207	We need to come back to that in the second term. I couldn't just come up with something myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u208	I know you can, and I am waiting for the second term!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u209	I need to discuss this in consultation with the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u210	Thank you very much. We'll suspend for a moment, a minute, before the switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u211	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Members for all the questions asked. I have seen that my colleagues have solved almost all the problems, with an excellent mood, so there are only a few small things left for me. Mr. Chairman. The first and the biggest topic I wanted to say about is the riots and the damage. There were a few Members who referred to that. It may be good to emphasise once again that what has happened is truly scandalous. Our entrepreneurs, who have already suffered great damage, our police and our hospitals are the ones who have once again had to reap the bad results of this violence. Because those rioters were especially after the shop windows, have attacked police who were already in the front line, and have among other things attacked the Jeroen Bosch Hospital. Shameful, as Bas van 't Wout and many others from the cabinet have said. Mr. Chairman. Then about the damage. When this became clear, I felt that, of course, it would not be possible for this group of entrepreneurs to be presented with the bill. So I contacted the insurance companies first to check how the damage was handled. They indicated that their assessment is that the majority of entrepreneurs are happily insured. You then enter into the discussion under which category the damage falls and whether you are allowed to compensate it as an insurer. For that you need De Nederlandsche Bank. I have also had contact with them, and this is a great deal of suffering, but it falls legally within the category of'small molest'. Why is that important? Because insurers are allowed to pay in case of small molest. With that, you have had the companies that are insured and thus the majority. That leaves a small group of companies that are not insured. I contacted the Minister of JenV, who said about this yesterday: let us use this compensation fund for violent crimes. There are those entrepreneurs who are not insured, but whose shop, shop window or perhaps even further inventory has been destroyed. They can go there. Mr. Chairman. The latter. I do not know whether it was Aartsen or any of the other Members who referred to it, but we are of course going to do everything we can to recover the damage from those who did it. When I say 'we', I mean the government, the insurers, which we also talked about, and of course the entrepreneurs themselves. I think that's what everyone's really after. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second issue: public finances. I couldn't quite escape the impression that Mr Van Dijk and Mr Smeulders probably had some of the election elixir. They may have been dealing with reality sometimes, but I must say I enjoyed it. I actually understood Mr Van Dijk in such a way that he wanted to apologize one more time for all the cuts from the previous cabinet period, and I understand that. I also agree with him that this cabinet's policy on this issue is sensible and perhaps more sensible. Mr. Chairman. Of course, Mr Smeulders has not apologized yet, I have stood here, but if he is lucky, he will have the opportunity to do so in 4.5 years. By then, it may also be another subject to which he feels called. But this was an indirect way of saying that I wish him a fruitful formation. Mr. Chairman. There are a few things I have to say about this. The first has already been pointed out by my two colleagues, namely that the cabinet, and in particular I personally, think it is very sensible that we should be dealing with an exceptionally serious problem. I have already said at the beginning of the crisis, including in the European context, that I thought it wise to let go of the budgetary rules and to come up with an unprecedented and also very unorthodox package of measures. This is important because it is the best way to keep as many jobs as possible and to attract as many businesses as possible through this difficult phase. It's about a lot of money. It's all about this calendar year alone, one more time, 30 billion. I also said last week: if you want to put that in perspective... People wonder: it sounds very big, but is it big, very large or phenomenal? 30 billion is more than the budgets of Defence, Justice and EZK combined. And so there's that 7.6 billion package. I think it's very sensible that we do that. That's one. Two. I have repeatedly said here and also last week in Jinek's programme, at the press conference and on several occasions, that, as far as I am concerned, the best thing to do for both the economy, employment and public finances is to ensure that that economy is going to turn back into a tier. Because if you do, you take care of the economy in its entirety and then you keep as many jobs as possible. That is, in the end, the best way to get these public finances back in order. Then there's the third thing I said. In addition, language is really important. When I got the question 'can you promise that there will never be any more cuts', I had to say to the truth: no, you can't promise that. It is not that you can say that there will never again be a scenario in which you do not want to do anything about the burden or make cuts. There's just too much uncertainty for that. See also what the President of De Nederlandsche Bank said. He has made it even more concrete, since he has referred there to the second half of the next period of government. I'm not even ready to think that's wise. I guess by definition you can't rule out that kind of thing for now and eternity. So that's what I called a myth. I think I can and must maintain that to the full. Mr. Chairman. I have a little bit of agitated Mr Van Dijk, so I can imagine him appearing at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u213	A very short question, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u214	I was somewhat challenged. The Minister of Finance mentioned Rutte II. Rutte II has made a great deal of savings, and I myself have said a number of things about social security and social employment, but I have also given Rutte III the opportunity, for example, to help that million people in poverty out of poverty, for example, to give all those who are waiting for an affordable home an affordable home. That gave Rutte III a lot of choices, which may not always have been made. That has more to do with elections, but it is just as good to explain that. My comment was not about elections, nor was it made in that light. It is important, however, that the cabinet does not now exude: we are going to cut back. Mr Hoekstra and, in fact, everyone in the cabinet say that we need to invest in society and in the economy in the near future, so that we also make money that will eventually end up in our society. That's what's gonna bring us back below that 6% if we do it a little smart. In my view, then, investment is the first medicine and not words about cuts in social security or care, which I have heard Mr Hoekstra say before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u215	Okay, well, then you said this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u216	Let me make three comments. The first is that I have also heard members of the PvdA Group dream about a limit of 70%. The fact that Mr Van Dijk himself is at least falling to 60% seems to me to be a profit from public finances. Then the second one. It is not for me to pass out reports to the various cabinets. But if you ask most economists what report figures they give to financial and economic policy in the previous period and in this one, my observation is that they think that the movement we are making now is wise, to keep up jobs and to pull companies through them, and that they are in many parts quite critical of, in particular, part of the cuts and part of the burdens that have taken place, quite apart from some things being necessary and sensible. That's what I wanted to say. Then the third that's important to mark. As often as Mr Van Dijk asks me, I am happy to repeat it with all kinds of pleasure. I have always stressed that I think it is wise to make this very strong move, that you are probably going to find at the end that you could have done it with less, but that you can spend too much money than you have done too little, because it simply destroys businesses unnecessarily. I think that it would be unwise for us to cut back on the first few months, or perhaps the first year and a half that will come next, even if you were stuck with that 60%. The economy is then in a phase of rebuilding. That's what I've been saying all along, that's what I keep saying about it, and I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u217	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u218	All right, let's finish. I think it is important that we understand each other well there, and that we also radiate it from the different parties. If we're all vaccinated, this crisis isn't over. There will be a lot of social consequences anyway. A lot of companies are gonna fall down or not. And we will have to do a lot and invest in the economy to make it really full again. We will have to invest further in our society. This means that it is important to say in a next cabinet period: we are going to invest in a sensible way, which also means that we are going to make money in a good way. I think we can find each other in that. I hear the Minister say one and a half years. That seems a little short. I think the lessons are that we really need to invest a few years in our society. There is still a lot to do, to fight poverty, to create homes, to achieve a good public sector. So I hope that we will be able to find Mr Hoekstra there in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u219	Well, the negotiations are...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u220	If the reasonable version of Mr Van Dijk had just been there, we would not have had this debate with each other at all. I find it complicated to put you on a period right now, because I think the uncertainty is too great for that. That is why I am more cautious, much more cautious than the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, who said that this might be necessary in the second half of the next cabinet period. I don't think you can say that for sure right now. Preferably you don't do it at all. But in any case, there will be a lot of recovery in the near future, a lot of savings that will then find its way back to the economy. I think that in that near future your first concern must be to maintain as many jobs as possible and to allow the economy to experience that growth. Public finances are important, but I do not think that they should be your first priority at that time. Exactly how long that phase lasts? Mr Van Dijk says: it is more than a year and a half anyway. I wouldn't risk that prophecy right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u221	Good. I shall now turn to Mr Azarkan. He always has short questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u222	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. There are still people who think that with extreme austerity you stimulate the economy. And afterwards it is said that we have invented this together so that the next cabinet has a very good starting position. Yes. Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Minister of Finance. The following is not entirely clear to me. In the Spring Paper, in March, April, the idea was that we would be running out of some EUR 92 billion. With just under 0.3% of GDP added, it will be around 94 billion to 95 billion by 2020. At Prince's Day it was 68 billion this year and the following year about 36 billion. And now I read: this year and next year 61.3 billion. How do these numbers relate to each other, and what is the state of the household book?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u223	The most important thing that that shows is how extremely much uncertainty we experience with each other. That first assessment was made, of course, without having a clear view of the recovery growth that would occur. Then we saw around Prinsjesdag that the recovery of the economy was actually very strong, much stronger than many economists had previously thought possible. So there were positive projections for this calendar year, 2021. After that, of course, we got in the drip again. See what has happened since Princess Day: companies have been closed, lockdown-like measures have been taken and there are, as a consequence, a lot of substantial support packages. That makes that the numbers of course have been adjusted in a negative way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u224	I just want the numbers. In March, April, everything was still very uncertain. I know that; I was there and no one knew what was going to happen. Then we thought: that will be an issue of about 95 billion. That's about $48 billion now. And does that mean that the estimate is that we're spending 61.3 billion next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u225	The most recent numbers are in the letter I sent to the Chamber yesterday. You can see in that you're going over that 60%. You can see that the spending account is very strong: higher than with Princess Day, but lower than in our first estimate, in May, June. The part about which there is, of course, the most uncertainty, but that is a very big factor in this discussion, is how much tax revenue you are generating again this year. That is a function of how well the economy is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u226	Mr Smeulders also asks a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Hoekstra took a little bit of a you-bowl in the mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u228	It's the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u229	Sorry, the Treasury Minister came up with a little bit of a you-bake. I understand that too, because his statement at BNR may have been a little more nuanced than the headline that was made of it, but on the day that we talk about a EUR 7 billion corona support package to save entrepreneurs who are about to fall and workers who fear for their jobs, it does not help if the Finance Minister says: I cannot rule out that we are going to cut back in a few years' time. The Minister of Finance has recently also been the leader of the CDA. I thought he was just clear, but not at all at one point. Then it's about the time limit on which we might be cutting back. The elections will take place on 17 March. Does Mr. Hoekstra say "no, we're not going to cut four years" or does he say "yes, perhaps, if it's very disappointing"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u230	I have accepted Mr Smeulder's apologies for reading the headline only. As far as his question is concerned, I think I have been crystal clear. I think that's too early to say. I just think it is not a sensible recipe for the first phase after the crisis. But there's so extreme uncertainty. On the one hand, there is a group of people, including economists and medics. They are very positive and say: the summer is coming, the vaccination is coming; with all the measures we will have, you will probably see a lot of catching up and you will definitely be off in the second or at least the third quarter and the economy will recover. Then you think, "Maybe you'll get away with it." There are also doctors who say: seat belts are fixed; this is the first of several of these types of viruses in the coming years. I'm not a virologist. I don't know anything about that. But there are also other scenarios imaginable. Can you now make very big statements about what that will be like in two, three or four years anyway? I don't think so. To be honest, I thought it wise what some economists, the Minister of SZW, the Prime Minister, the former Minister of Economic Affairs, recommended to me. A few months ago, when we had held a meeting, they said: you should actually review a number of times during the next cabinet period, because there will come a time when uncertainty will be reduced and you can also see better how to move forward towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u231	Finally, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u232	So if I understand the Minister of Finance correctly, he says, in principle, we're not going to make cuts unless there's another huge pandemic. Let me get this straight. This is important in the run-up to 17 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u233	Mr Smeulders wants us to believe that there will never be any cuts in any scenario. I don't think it's wise to repeat that to him, because you can't promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u234	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u235	Mr. Chairman. I had another question from Mr Aartsen about the banks. That's a fair question. His question was: can the banks continue to do their fair share? At least that's how I understood him. It is good to point out once again that an important side effect of this package is that companies have more space and that this offers banks more opportunities for lending. After all, the financial position of companies is getting back on track. That 7.6 billion goes to companies for a very large part, and that gives extra space to banks. That's one. Two. The Ministry of EZK and the Ministry of Finance will also re-record this section with the banks to see what else is possible there. Three. However, on the basis of the analyses carried out by FB and ECB, there does not seem to be very high rejection rates, but it always justifies a discussion. Four. That's the last point, and I've made it before. Fortunately, our banking sector is doing really well. It is very creditworthy and much better than it was before the previous crisis. At the same time, however, it is important that we ensure that this remains the case. Mr. Chairman. There was one loose question, but I saw someone appear at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u236	You said you have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u237	Yeah, but it's about another subject. Shall I answer it now? That is the question about student compensation. That was a question from Mr Bruins. In my opinion, there has been a lot of discussion about primary education and the enormous importance of reopening it as soon as possible, in order to ensure that young children do not suffer as much damage as possible. I understood the Minister of SZW in such a way that he said: we always thought that compulsory education was there for the children, but he is actually there for the parents. He referred to young parents and said what all this means to him. In my opinion, Mr Bruins' question dealt partly with this issue, but also partly with the seniors and the negative consequences. The Minister of OCW has already announced that the existing compensation scheme will be extended, which will compensate the current seniors for corona-related delays. We are now looking at whether this is even broader and what is needed, and then possible, for the academic year 2021-2022. The Minister of OCW will soon inform the Chamber about this. I hope I'll then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u238	Brief question, Mr Van Weyenberg. And then a brief question from Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u239	We have just had a half-hour debate here and I notice that Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Dijk's bottle of campaign elixir has been passed on to Minister Hoekstra, because I think he also had a sip. But my question is another. I've been looking at the questions. I hear that maybe we're not going to cut back in the future. I have two questions. On this day, when it comes to support, shouldn't he have just kept his mouth shut about this? What if he wants to cut back on what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u240	I should like to remind Mr Van Weyenberg of this. I said this last week. BNR's quote is from Friday after the Council of Ministers. I have just explained the context and said that it is not possible to exclude it for all eternity in all scenarios. That quote was aired this morning. I myself believe, and this cabinet believes, that it is really unwise to do so in the short or medium term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u241	Mr. Aartsen. Mr. Van Weyenberg, it's actually been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u242	Not quite, because I did hear, also in the answer just: we have to go back to below 60% at some point. As far as I am concerned, we are doing the same by investing in education. Only the Minister mentioned that you couldn't rule out cuts. There's a lot I can't rule out. But my question was, if you're going to cut back on what? Now it's kind of stuck in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u243	We're gonna go over the conversation again. The first question I received last Thursday evening, after the Council of Ministers, and which I also received from the press: do you think it would be wise to cut back at this stage? My answer to that was: no, I think that is unwise, because you have to get the economy to scramble out of the valley. The following question: do you think it would be wise to cut back over the next few months or the next year? I said: no, I think that is also unwise. And: it will be looked at differently, but I think that is unwise, because I think that is causing economic damage. Then it was asked: can you rule out that that will ever happen again? No, I said, I can't rule that out, but you're gonna have to look at that and then you're gonna have to look at whether and, if so, how.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u244	Mr. Aartsen. A brief question, too, Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u245	We will accept the apologies of the Minister of Finance for his lack of silence. I have a question about the banks. For the first six months, a generic measure was taken by the banks, also by De Nederlandsche Bank, to delay redemptions and there was a whole major package. Now it's fallen back on customization, but it's still messing around. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether he can explain how many cases are now being made customised, unlike the first six months, in which everything became generic. That is what I am asking for in order to prevent us from being sent under the heading of 'customisation' and to ensure that entrepreneurs are really helped by the banks. That's what we can expect from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u246	I'd be happy to take a look at that. I don't know if that's possible. I really need to check with the banks what we can and what we can't deliver. But let me at least make an effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u247	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u248	I was done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u249	Thank you. Then we have arrived now... Mrs. Van Brenk!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u250	Oh, yes, I forgot about one of Mrs. Van Brenk's subjects. Was it the solidarity levy? Yeah, I did hear that. The Minister of Economic Affairs had passed that charmingly to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u251	Very good, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u252	I can imagine that, especially from the political point of view of Mrs Van Brenk. I think we all see that there are parties and sectors that are evident winners or those obvious losers of this crisis. At the same time, you want the whole economy to turn around as well as possible. It is not so easy to say to an internet salesman or to a supermarket, with which things have been much better in recent months: pay a little extra, on top of what you already pay extra to Vpb. I think that this is a political but also economic debate that will take place in the coming months. Apart from the feelings about what is fair, you first have to answer the question of what is economically sensible and then what is feasible. I myself am not ready for a final assessment of that second and third questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u253	Do I understand now that the Minister says he's willing to at least look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u254	I do not think it is up to the outgoing cabinet to do something like this now which is clearly part of the longer term. I dare to predict that, especially if the crisis lasts longer, apart from the feelings we have about honesty, the question of what is economically sensible and what is then feasible will remain with us for a while. However, I understand that Mrs Van Brenk wants the cabinet to continue its drive for action, but I am not sure that we will be able to grasp this completely in the next six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u255	Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u256	I just saw some cock behavior about political movements; everyone has to profile.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u257	I've noticed that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u258	You're the only female spokesperson. Did you notice that, too? Also in box-K.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u259	I think we're getting a good level together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u260	I would like to endorse that immediately. I have sometimes complained that there are only male spokesmen in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u261	In any case, I hope that this Minister's background will be heard when he thinks again about this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u262	I'll take that as a next compliment to my address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u263	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Did you also notice that these three cabinet men have the same dress code today? Mrs. Van Brenk, how do you feel about that? Oh, this is all going from my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u265	I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u266	I am glad that we were able to resolve the misunderstanding about the Minister of Finance at BNR. We're not going to cut back in the next few years. We are mainly going to support the groups of people who are having such a hard time in the coming time. That's why three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many young people have lost their jobs and are eager to support them in finding a job;]] [[noting that the Asscher motion adopted calls for a broad offensive to give young people more perspective;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the provision of learning opportunities for all vulnerable young people in the assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that small entrepreneurs, such as the beauty sector, hairdressers and community shops, are now often caught between shore and ship;]] [[Whereas these small entrepreneurs no longer have buffers or savings;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the fixed-cost threshold or to take other measures to support these small entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-5]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u267	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is insufficient public support for border workers and border entrepreneurs;]] [[whereas they are now barely able to pay the groceries and rent;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to support border entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u269	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. I've got three motions that I'm going to read straight away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona crisis is breaking up more and more people, and that more than half of the Dutch are now suffering from stress;]] [[Whereas this stress is partly work-related, for example because of long-term work at home or aggression at the workplace;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to the economic support package, to set up a mental support package in cooperation with the social partners, with, for example, easy access to coaching,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that combining work and home education is a heavy burden for many parents and not all employers handle it smoothly;]] [[Whereas leave arrangements have been developed in most other European countries to support working parents;]] [[whereas, hopefully, the primary schools will be able to open again on 9 February, but this is not certain;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of options already explored with regard to corona leave and, in the event of prolonged closure of primary schools together with social partners, to make an ultimate effort to arrive at a corona leave scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the measures taken to combat COVID-19 have forced many operators in the catering and retail sectors to close their doors and thus have less to no income;]] [[Whereas several large landlords are not prepared to reduce the rents, creating additional problems for entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas legislation in force in Germany explicitly provides for public measures to combat corona as a reason to renegotiate the lease and measures to help tenants have also been taken in other European countries;]] [[Calls on the Government to put forward proposals in the short term to strengthen the legal position of tenants in order to achieve a reduction in rent if there is closure due to corona measures;]] [[also invites the government to table with tenants, landlords and banks to reach an agreement on rent reduction for companies that have been closed due to corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-8]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-9]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u271	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good alternative to austerity is, of course, to increase revenue. If you want to do this in an honest way, you could do it through the tax on profits, as I say to Mrs Van Brenk, because then you will let the companies that are doing well pay with it. Mr President, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the partner test from the Tozo scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that entrepreneurs in different sectors, such as travel industry, beauty specialists and driving school holders, are not in danger of surviving the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the gaps in the current aid package and to send sector-specific proposals to the Chamber as a matter of urgency in order to compensate these entrepreneurs for their loss of turnover,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with a reintegration path through the lockdown may not be able to meet the set time limit;]] [[Whereas this does not allow these people to complete the journey;]] [[calls on the Government to review and, where necessary, extend any ongoing routes with a fixed deadline,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-11]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-12]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u273	If the information we are about to receive is reassuring enough, then I will of course continue this motion and not put it to the vote next Tuesday. Then I'll wait for the information the Chamber is about to get. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to assist the event sector with a guarantee fund;]] [[calls on the government to pay particular attention to festivals and events with less than 3,000 visitors, events that would take place before the fund's entry date and voucher bank as proposed in the Quint/El Yassini motion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Kent and Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u274	I now give the floor to Mr Aartsen on behalf of the VVD. New partnerships, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u275	Yes, the Aartsen/Van Kent motion. But I thought, while enjoying Mr Hoekstra's election elixir, who started flirting with GroenLinks: let's be certain for the sake of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u276	Whatever he can, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u277	You never know, Mr. Chairman. 40 seats are still not enough, but good. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to introduce a separate start-up scheme;]] [[Whereas this scheme still excludes a large group of entrepreneurs;]] [[Calls on the Government to extend the scheme to economic operators who registered in the Trade Register between 30 September 2019 and 1 January 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Court intends to extend the separate start-up scheme to entrepreneurs registered in the Trade Register between 30 September 2019 and 1 January 2020;]] [[Whereas there is still a large group of entrepreneurs out of business because they started before or after this period and do not have a reference turnover to receive money from the regular TVL;]] [[Whereas inter-branch organisations can play a role and be a central point where the distressing cases can be reported;]] [[calls on the Government, together with inter-branch organisations, to properly identify the group of entrepreneurs who do not receive money from the regular TVL because they do not have sufficient reference turnover and are registered outside this period;]] [[calls on the Government to report this to the Chamber before 1 March,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Van Weyenberg, Amhaouch and Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-15]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Amhaouch, Van Weyenberg and Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u278	And the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet has released a new support package of EUR 240 million for the vital sports infrastructure;]] [[noting that the corona measures also seriously affect sports federations;]] [[believes that every effort should be made to preserve our unique and vital infrastructure of sport;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with NOC*NSF, to ensure that the new support package also allows the sports federations to survive and, if necessary, to redesign the funds available to support sports associations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Rudmer Heerema, Diertens and von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u279	Instead of NOC*NSF I said VNO-NCW by mistake, chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u280	That was really freudian. Happens. Thank you, Mr. Aartsen. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u281	Mr President, I think this is one minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u282	Yeah, a third of five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u283	I thought I had two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u284	Are we negotiating? It's just a third. Let's go, let's go!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u285	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas as a result of the corona crisis, many small-scale travel organisations incur high costs due to cancellations and conversions;]] [[calls on the Government to meet the travel industry in the cancellation costs incurred by entrepreneurs and which do not fall within the current aid package, and to implement this in the same way as the retail and hospitality stock scheme, with a percentage premium corresponding to the amount of these cancellation costs, so that it can be realised together with the changes in the TVL announced last week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Aartsen, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are poignant cases which fall outside the scope of the TVL;]] [[calls on the Government to find a solution to these distressing cases and to review them on an individual basis by setting up a separate committee within RVO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it usually takes some time for an event permit to be issued and is only valid for a certain period, making it difficult for event organisers to anticipate the rapidly changing corona situation and measures;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the event sector and the VNG, to explore the possibilities of "dynamic event permits" that can move along with the current corona situation, for example by entering into a permit at the time events are allowed on a national basis and space in a permit for different corona scenarios within which an organizer can switch,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Aartsen, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u287	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to open a subsidy scheme for companies in the automotive, aviation and maritime sectors, which are important in the Dutch manufacturing industry, to mitigate the decline in R&D investments;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the subsidy scheme by 15 May 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u288	You want me to take it with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u289	Yeah, and then put it here with the clerk. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that despite the provision of public support, many entrepreneurs continue to suffer heavy losses, build debt and internee on their financial reserves, including pension measures;]] [[noting that the existing aid measures are designed in such a way that part of the undertakings, part of the costs and/or part of the turnover losses are not compensated;]] [[noting that the solvency of business is being disproportionately undermined;]] [[Whereas it is difficult to eliminate the steadily growing level of debt and thereby increase the risk of bankruptcy;]] [[calls on the government to increase aid to ensure better and fairer business solvency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the government is rigging a start-up scheme but it will not be operational until April or May;]] [[Whereas this could be too late for many;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to implement the start-up scheme earlier than is currently planned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-22]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u291	Mr. Chairman. Times are tough for all entrepreneurs. I wish them a great deal of strength and I hope that the extension of the measures can be implemented quickly. I also wish the implementing organisations that have to do this very much strength and success, because it is an extremely difficult task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u292	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u293	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many entrepreneurs had to close the doors of their companies;]] [[noting that this has shifted part of the sales of products from local entrepreneurs to some large online providers;]] [[Whereas making it possible to buy by appointment and offer a collection function for orders (local) entrepreneurs can provide financial space;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible to purchase by appointment and a collection function for orders as soon as the epidemiological picture permits and if this is designed by entrepreneurs (and industry organisations) in a responsible manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Aartsen and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u294	Then the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that free calf farmers suffered an average turnover loss of €170,000 in 2020 due to the loss of demand in relation to the corona measures, but that the TVL scheme did not satisfy due to relatively high turnover levels compared to small margins;]] [[Whereas these red figures affect business continuity and investment in sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a tailor-made solution for calf farming, for example by reducing the TVL threshold of at least 30% turnover loss and/or by choosing other reference years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u295	Then the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of entrepreneurs, such as hairdressers, caterers and retailers, have been closed for some time and that there is currently little prospect of opening up;]] [[considers that it is desirable to provide a perspective on the opening up of the various sectors of industry and that concrete plans should be prepared to open up as soon as possible, if it can be justified;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with interbranch organisations, to develop re-opening plans or exit strategies for the various closed branches with a view to opening up as quickly as possible, if this is justified;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u296	Mr. Chairman. Mr Amhaouch and I had one motion in preparation on the retail chains with many branches, but due to the good commitment of Minister Van 't Wout it is not necessary. I assume that after the talks there will be a feedback to the Chamber, as usual. But thank you again for that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u297	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u298	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Tozo the partner test often leads to distressing situations;]] [[calls on the government to pay both incomes in the partner test and to grant the Tozo in the event of a negative balance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that "qualifying workspace elsewhere' or "a location outside the home address' is included in the TVL as a condition;]] [[calls on the Government to delete this qualifying test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the TVL has a cap of €400,000 and the OVG has a cap of €200,000;]] [[Whereas this would unduly but very limited compensate larger companies, retail and hotel chains and other groups for the damage they suffer;]] [[calls on the Government to remove these caps from both schemes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that entrepreneurs were fined for being on the streets after 9 p.m. to protect their shop from looters;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that fines are waived,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the definition of a "starter" is ambiguous;]] [[whereas there are also start-ups who have registered with the Chamber of Commerce before 30 September 2019 and are therefore unable to call on the TVL;]] [[Whereas the same problem arises in the case of takeovers and conversions of legal form;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the introduction of a hardness clause in the TVL regime can solve these problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that shops and restaurants can be virus-free with good air treatment systems;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how this can be integrated into the exit strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many SMEs are unable to repay the aid they have received;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether such debts can be cancelled in poignant cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-27]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-28]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-30]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-31]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-32]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions on the TONK, which have to make an essential contribution to their income for many households in order to cope with loss of income. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for many households the TONK is the only safety net capable of providing relief in acute situations;]] [[noting that these critical situations concern, for example, entrepreneurs on maternity leave, entrepreneurs without their own entrance such as hairdressers and beauty parlors, entrepreneurs with too low fixed burdens and entrepreneurs with a earning partner who have high burdens;]] [[Calls on the Government to state that the TONK is income support for workers and entrepreneurs who are excluded and who are not eligible for aid due, for example, to the partner test, and who are affected by the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to give the TONK wide-ranging attention to entrepreneurs who may be able to avail themselves of the scheme;]] [[calls on the government not to take a capital test in the hand-out to municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor closely the implementation of the TONK and regularly inform the Court thereof;]] [[further calls on the government to find a solution with municipalities when implementation shows that people are still falling apart,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the TONK for many households is the only safety net that can provide relief to households falling between shore and ship;]] [[Whereas developments in the corona crisis follow a erratic path;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor whether the funds released are sufficient to implement the TONK generously and if this is not sufficient to provide more resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Aartsen, Mr Palland, Mr Bruins, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smeulders and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-35]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg, Aartsen, Palland and Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u300	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a significant proportion of workers who are able to work at home are still working regularly or in full at the office;]] [[Whereas it may still be a challenge for some employers to allow workers to work at home in an appropriate and responsible manner;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage and support initiatives to work vitally at home in consultation with social partners and to release 5 million for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u301	Mr President, thank you very much. One question is to stay down. As far as I am concerned, the Minister for Economic Affairs has not been able to answer that question sufficiently. It's that complicated question about all those Q's. I still have difficulty with the quarter in which the reference turnover is calculated. For this quarter it is said: we are looking at the first quarter of 2019. But that was almost two years ago. A lot of companies did not exist or existed at that time in a much smaller setting, which makes it possible to ask whether the turnover of the first quarter 2019 is representative for this quarter. I would like to know how much support the companies that had no turnover in the first quarter of 2019 will receive and whether they will receive any support at all. Indeed, companies may have received support in the previous quarter and will suddenly no longer receive support in this quarter, as they could show a reference turnover of the fourth quarter of 2019, but no reference turnover of the first quarter of 2019. It's a little complicated. I'd like to do it in writing. But I really want to know, because that would be a very big omission. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the answers had a very high "computer says no" content. Hence the next two motions. Our reasoning is: where there is a will, there is a way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure thatzzp'ers can also benefit from the Tozo scheme without a partner test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u302	My next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to compensate the affected sectors for 100% of the costs as long as they have to keep their doors closed due to the coronal lockdown,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u303	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u304	Mr. Chairman. I thank the three ministers for their answers. I would like to thank Minister Koolmees for his commitments to discuss the issues of lifelong development, the financing of matching and training infrastructure in deficit sectors and the possibility of exchanging data between pension funds and R&D funds. In this second term, may I ask him, as soon as there is progress in those talks, to report it to the Chamber by letter? I'd really like to get a direct feedback as soon as there's anything to report. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the adjustment of the aid package rightly includes a premium for continuous non-avoidable costs in agriculture and horticulture, but that this scheme only applies for the first quarter;]] [[noting that non-avoidable costs in agriculture and horticulture are not necessarily linked to the current lockdown, but are linked to highly adaptable natural production processes;]] [[noting that many agricultural and horticultural companies involved in these non-avoidable costs have a significant fall in turnover, and that this will continue to be the case in the second quarter;]] [[noting that the TVL and its storage automatically 'coexist' with the (company) economic situation, with only companies with a turnover reduction of at least 30% in a given quarter eligible for aid;]] [[Calls on the Government not to limit the storage on top of the TVL to cover ongoing costs in agriculture and horticulture to the first quarter of 2021, but also to allow it to apply in the second quarter of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Geurts, Mr Stoffer, Mr Lodders, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr De Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u305	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan, the last speaker, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good to see that dualism is a little bit back. I've rarely seen it like that. It seems as if the coalition parties think it should all be more generous, faster and different. It's nice to see that dualism. I've rarely seen it like that. I don't have much time, so I'm gonna move on to my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet calls on landlords to be cooperative towards entrepreneurs affected by the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas the public authorities have an exemplary role to play in this process and also have a role to play in the ownership of buildings by local and regional authorities;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to consult with the local authorities in order to achieve a substantial reduction in rent for affected entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has announced generic aid measures and also sector-specific schemes;]] [[Whereas civil society organisations that organise activities for young people, the elderly and women are often excluded from the schemes and are therefore facing serious financial difficulties;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a system for these civil society organisations to cover up to 85% of their fixed costs;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hairdressers and driving school holders are now in a distressing financial situation;]] [[Whereas these groups are often just out of place, including as a result of the quarterly systems and the partner test;]] [[Whereas other contact professions, such as physiotherapists and dental hygienists, may be active under conditions and these inequalities are difficult to explain in policy;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the system of aid schemes in such a way that hairdressers and driving school holders are covered by these schemes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-40]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-41]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35669-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u307	That was him, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u309	I'll spare you the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u310	That's good. I'll take a look at the number. 38 motions have been tabled. The cabinet needs a 15-minute suspension, so I'm suspending until 5:55 p.m. But if it's okay, we also have a short settlement. In any case, I shall suspend briefly.
