ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the vote on the draft decision adopted by the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, which was adopted by letter dated 17 December 2020, setting the date of entry into force of the Environment Act, 33118, 34986, letters BN. In the meantime, a number of Members have requested speaking time prior to the decision-making process. In the brief notes of the meeting of the Infrastructure, Water State and Environment Committees and for Economic Affairs and Climate / Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality of 12 January 2021, I read the proposal to discuss in plenary on the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure on the entry into force of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to give the Chamber the opportunity for that debate. Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't need 15 minutes. I signed up a little broadly, because I was not entirely clear whether we would have a first and a second term. So maybe it'll go a little faster. Welcome to the Minister, too. Thank you for being here this short term. Whatever the outcome of the vote tonight, it is clear that there are still serious doubts in this Chamber about the timing of the royal decision and whether we are ready to set a date for the introduction of the Environment Act. Otherwise, we would not have decided to vote this evening. The First Chamber has an important task to judge whether the conditions for the successful implementation of a law have been met. As a committee, we have sent a very comprehensive letter, which means that we are Chamberwide, with questions to get more insight into the state of implementation and the way in which the cabinet intends to address problems in this respect. We are still waiting for the Minister's reply. So I'm falling back on what we've inserted into the Environment Act. I would like to mention these points again, because we think these are very important points. I've been running it for a year and a half, so they can't come to the minister entirely as a surprise. Insight into the finances and coverage of the costs for the local authorities. We note that there is still an Article 2 investigation under way and that neither coverage nor risk provision has been made by the Minister for the EUR 1.7 billion singing, which should cost the implementation by local authorities. A demonstrablely functioning and filled DSO in all municipalities, so that citizens and businesses do not run the risk of failure of licence applications after 1 January 2022 because governments are not able to go through their processes carefully and successfully. This should be demonstrated by an independent test. What is there is, however, is a very critical BIT report which states that it has not been proven that the DSO is working as of 1 January 2022. Whatever there is is an oral consultation that we have held with BIT, in which it indicated that the review by the Ministry was not sufficiently in-depth to bring all the errors up to date. Finally. Evidence of sufficient knowledge and capacity in the implementation organisations, demonstrated by independent tests for the VTH column, for example the Van Aartsen Committee, for the justice and for the environmental services. These are great things that we need to be sure will work. The Minister has made commitments in all areas. Sometimes there were deadlines, which have expired. I do not call this for nothing: commitments are not always met. I would like a response from the Minister to the state of play of Article 2 research: how she intends to address and cover the deficits, how she is going to provide certainty about the DSO, that it is working and filled, and how she deals with, among other things, the Van Aartsen Committee and the results that come from it. Yesterday we spoke in detail. The term "administrative position of the Upper Chamber" was regularly mentioned. After a year and a half as a newcomer, it is clear that taking up administrative positions is one part, but it is also incredibly important that we have a parliament that looks at the details. That applies to our Chamber and that applies to the House of Representatives. And then we see that there is still much to do. If you don't address that before you decide to introduce it, you run a huge risk that it will go badly in implementation and that citizens and businesses will suffer a great deal from it. The cabinet cannot therefore be surprised that we, as GroenLinks, want guarantees in advance on these three matters. So that is when we decide on the introduction. These are all kinds of commitments that have sometimes been made years ago, but at least in the last year and a half. I advise the Cabinet to work out these points, which are widely shared in this Chamber. I'm also considering a motion on this. We hope, as a group, that the cabinet and, moreover, the colleagues in the House of Representatives who are tabling a motion that we should debate with each other at this time on a royal decision, will realise that there is a great need for them to pay more attention to implementation practice. Although the role of the First Chamber is great to give a final assessment of the implementation practice, the primacy to come up with enforceable legislation and policy plans is really with the Cabinet and the House of Representatives. This concludes my input. I'd like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you. I call Mrs Nooren on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u5	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u6	Excuse me. Mr Van Dijk would like to ask Mrs Kluit on behalf of the SGP. Go ahead, Mr. Van Dijk. I'm sorry I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened with interest to Mrs Kluit. In her speech I heard her mention several times the position of the local authorities. In this context, how do you weigh the call of the VNG, an important party in this regard? The UNG says that keeping the date of entry into force in the air will certainly not speed up or facilitate implementation; please give us clarity. How do you weigh that call?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u8	In the same call from the VNG, I also read very clearly that there must be a well-functioning DSO and that the finances must be regulated. As a Member of Parliament in this Chamber, I have a slightly different position from the VNG. I understand their concern, by the way. They feel the need to organize pressure to implement quickly and also to keep pressure in all municipalities, so that we get to work on the Environment Act. I just think that the means that we would choose to do this, the pricking of a date when we don't know if the conditions are right, is not the right way to get it done. We talk a lot about intergovernmental supervision and trust. If we take a decision here and say that we are not ready to say that 1 January is good, then I also think that we should act on these two principles towards municipalities, who think that they are putting pressure on each other and that the IPO and the Minister are working on this in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I now give the floor to Mrs Nooren on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Since a few weeks we know how important it is what the Registry did now. That cleaning is particularly essential if we are to avoid the English version of the coronavirus. Thank you for that, even in recent times. I have a brief contribution. I want to talk about the past, the present and the future. The past is about why we are actually standing here. I'll be honest with you, I wouldn't have wanted to stand here. As most people know, I will stop in this Chamber on 1 March and I would have liked to use the Environment Act as an example of how this Chamber shows that it combines the forces to create an enforceable system, from any position. Mrs. Klip and I have been in this room for a long time and we've been watching each other over and over again. Mrs Kluit has just made it clear what is important to make the system work. We are not here because we want to do so, but because the House of Representatives has adopted a motion. Thus, the House of Representatives says that the Environment Act should enter into force as of 1 January 2022. We found in December, I think Chamberwide, that we have too little knowledge, information and insight to make a decision on it now. I would have appreciated it if the Minister had told the House of Representatives that she understood the request, but that she also had to do with a First Chamber. That First Chamber had asked her a whole series of questions about the possibility that the bill is ready and what needs to be arranged to get that introduction in order. I say to the representative of the SGP that it is also in order for the municipalities to do their job properly. We would have liked to have done the work here in peace. That is what we said to each other in December. Because the royal decree has been offered to this Chamber, I feel pressured to make a statement today. In addition, we are having a discussion in this Chamber. That also says something about our work; we are also learning a lot today. I would also like to appeal to ourselves and, through the chairman, to the Registry, to make it clearer what it means when it says four weeks in a legislative proposal. I don't know how to do that, because I'm not a legal expert. How can we ensure a clear interpretation of a legislative proposal in which there is a pending procedure? This also applies to the extent to which the treatment of a royal decree can be suspended at the time when there is still good substantive debate. That ambiguity is why we are sitting here together now, and that is a responsibility of the cabinet. It's about more than the legal side. It is also about state law and the rules of the game we have with each other. This can be reinforced. There were solutions that I thought were good and which my group thought were very nice that they chose this variant in the introduction law. In the next law in which this plays, we will have to formulate it even more clearly and better. I agree with the content of the previous speaker that three issues are essential for a proper balance to be struck between the Royal Decree and the Royal Decree. Maybe there's more. One is about the conditions for the digital system to work properly for the Environment Act. We are not yet convinced of this, especially when it comes to whether it works everywhere, whether it cooperates and whether it works across each other in complex situations. The second is about the position of everyone involved in the implementation. Is everyone able to do their job properly, especially in this time of corona? The third is about money. Is there enough money available in the right place, not only today, but also after 2022? Is there enough money to develop the system, especially the digital system, but also to do the job? Are we getting quipped enough in there? So is 2022 feasible? That question is before us today. I can't answer that now. If I have to answer with the knife on the throat now, my answer is no, I'm just saying. We did get a letter from the cabinet. The cabinet says to us: you will have the maximum space to do the preparation of this bill properly and to exchange content. But that is what we are doing with a royal decision based on the introduction of the system by 2022. My question is whether that is enough and whether that can be achieved. Can we not properly discuss the conditions for it to work, and at a later stage assess whether 2022 is a responsible implementation date? It is not a responsible date for implementation if my group has to judge it today. Yesterday, and as from December, we found in the committee that there are currently different legal interpretations of where we stand and of the extent to which it will not vote on the royal decree strengthen or weaken the position of the First Chamber. I find that disappointing. I had hoped that we would be more unambiguous in this. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. But then, and I also attach great importance to this, it is also about how we behave. In December, everyone in this Chamber said, all the groups sitting here said: we have too little information to say yes now to introduction in 2022. Yesterday, I wonder what the Minister has to say about that. If the PvdA is asked with the knife on its throat whether we agree to the introduction of the PvdA, without a number of promises from the Minister on how we do the process, then the PvdA says no. So if we vote today, it's no. If the vote is suspended in any way, it is about the future, and I do not know how the PvdA will say: please let us have a good substantive debate. The commitments that have been made must be fulfilled. That is the condition for a proper assessment of the content. I am curious to see what possibilities the Minister sees, and I understand from the President that they are there to give that shape. That is essential for the PvdA to finally decide on the royal decision that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I call Mrs Moonen, who has an interruption for Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u12	I have a question for Mrs Nooren. What will it take for you to suspend it so that we do not have to vote today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u13	I don't know. I think it's a state lawyer. As a committee, we asked for the position of the First Chamber to be established here in plenary. If there is a vote today, there is one answer for the PvdA, the same answer that we gave in December: if we now have to vote on the introduction KB before us, the answer is no. We must be able to proceed to a trial in which the position of the First Chamber is maintained. And the Minister should be able to explain to me why there is a KB introduction for 2022, because I do not know what that is based on. These are the questions that have just been asked by GroenLinks. I want to have a feeling about that. Are we doing the same game now? I don't feel that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u14	My second question is: is the date of introduction important to you? That is what you say in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u15	We have an introduction KB and there is a date in it. I didn't think of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u16	But is there possibly the air there? When it comes to the date?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u17	No. An introduction KB has been submitted, with a date of introduction in 2022. At the request of the House of Representatives, it is here. The Minister has gone along with that. So the minister is the one who has to take a position now. Because I wouldn't know what other date would be there. I don't know. As a Chamber, we have set quite a series of conditions. We have said: do we agree that this, this, this and this is in order before we can judge whether we have an enforceable law? That's what today's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. By adopting the Regterschot/Terpstra motion in the House of Representatives, against which the 50PLUS Group voted, the date of entry into force of the Environment Act was fixed on 1 January 2022. The four-week time limit for the pending procedure of the draft Royal Decree started on 17 December 2020, in accordance with the statutory procedure laid down in Article 23.10 (2) Environment Act. As a result, the legal deadline of four weeks would expire on 13 January 2021 at 24.00 hours. That is why we have this plenary sitting this evening. By letter dated 17 December 2020, the Minister indicated his intention to respond to the request made by the members of the IWO Committee to extend the four-week period for consideration of the Royal Decree. My group appreciates the Minister's goodwill in this matter, but at the same time points out that ministerial commitments are not legally enforceable. That the four-week period mentioned in the Environmental Law is a legally fatal period, contrary to the Minister's view, has been confirmed by Professor Munneke, Professor of State Law, who was consulted yesterday. That's what happened at the committee meeting. My group wishes to avoid any risk, which would mean that it would lose the right to continue dealing with the draft CB without having been given the absolute certainty that the Environment Act and the DSO will work as intended. My group is particularly interested in the letter of the Council of Ministers. This afternoon, the Minister read it. By the way, it was promised that this letter would reach us before 2 p.m., but I personally received it first at 3.32 p.m. It's been noted. I would like to hear a clarification from the Minister on the last paragraph of this letter. I quote: 'for the duration of the treatment there is no legal deadline'. Can the Minister indicate whether the deadline of 1 January 2022 could have become an open date? Does it mean that the introduction of the Environmental Law can be postponed every time, as long as one of the two chambers disputes the feasibility of the Environmental Law? This is not related to the date of entry into force of 1 January 2022. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u20	I have a question for Mrs. Bayj. It's about the four-week period. I think the Minister is quite clear in her letter. She writes: "The four-week period applies to the cabinet and not to the parliament. Therefore, the treatment does not need to be completed within four weeks. The First Chamber determines its own process and duration." I hear you say something else about the four-week period, while the Minister is quite clear in her letter. Surely there can be no doubt about this four-week period after such a clear definition of the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u21	The four-week period laid down in law will always be above any general, administrative directives. I have, of course, read what the Minister wrote about this. I also made it clear in my speech that she undertook to extend these four weeks to allow the treatment of the Royal Decree to last longer. But if I want legal certainty, the four-week period in a law always goes beyond what the minister promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mrs Baay, uh, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mrs. Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u24	We have here a letter from the government, drawn up by the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, together with her colleague, the Minister of Justice and Security, including possible successors. Such a letter with such a stature of the government goes beyond any further legal explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u25	As a former lawyer, I'd like to make a note of that. Again, I know the contents of the letter. I have seen that the Minister has intended to see whether this four-week period can be so convincing in any way that we can achieve the same legal assessment and feasibility, as laid down in the law. You were also at Mr Munneke's explanatory statement yesterday afternoon. As a rule of law scholar, he made it very clear that you must always and forever look at the law, if you want to play completely safe, because that goes beyond a ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u26	Moons, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u27	I'll come back to it later in my term. Unfortunately, I could not be there because I was at that moment debating with Mr Koolmees in the Knight's Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u28	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u29	My colleague, Mr Pijlman, has certainly taken note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u30	It is true that Mrs Moonen was not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mrs Klip-Martin on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for her very clear letter today. To begin with the unsurprising conclusion of my brief contribution: the VVD Group is on the Minister's line. I'd like to explain. Let's start with the facts. The Environment Act has been accepted by the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. It is now only a question of setting the date of introduction. The question before us is whether the date of 1 January 2022 is feasible, i.e. justified and enforceable. That's an assessment that belongs to the core business of the Upper House. These include questions such as: how is the development of the DSO and the planned completion in the current year? Is it real to assume that the vast majority of the co-governments and the organizations associated with them can work as environmental services with the DSO as intended? What are the solutions to the financial consequences? Wide lives with this Chamber the desire to take some time to look closely at these and a number of other aspects, in consultation with the Minister. So far, we believe, there is a great deal of consensus among the parliamentary groups. However, in the area of the process to be followed, our paths are separate. I do not need to explain that this is about the appreciation of the said four-week period and about the promise by the Minister that more time is available in two letters. Mr. Chairman. The VVD's vision is as follows. The First Chamber operates in a political administrative environment. We can assume that the addition of part of the recess to the four weeks mentioned in the law, as is common practice for many years, applies here too. The weeks mentioned are not a final deadline for the Chamber, but a minimum period for the Cabinet. There are examples of KBs that have been hanging out for months. We are also relying on the Minister's commitment. Yesterday and today, the Minister reiterated her commitment of 17 December last year that the Chamber should be given full time for its assessment, both orally and in writing. Yesterday, the Minister appointed it as a firm political commitment not to present a KB to the King for ratification without agreement from the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u33	I suggest that you conclude your speech first and then give Mr Nicolaï the floor for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u34	There is no precedent, according to the Minister, in parliamentary history for the actions feared by many groups. In addition, all the promises made by this minister will be transferred one-on-one to its successor. In our view, therefore, the above-mentioned fear that her successor would still submit the Royal Decree in an accelerated manner is completely unfounded. Mr. Chairman. What kind of letter would a minister have to write to create confidence in the cabinet, we wonder. We were already convinced and also feel that you cannot put this letter from the Minister next to you. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (VVD) is happy to deal with the KB, because we too have some questions. So we're gonna take the time we need as First Chamber for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u36	I think that Mrs Klip and our group agree that there are still a lot of questions that need to be answered. I think that Mrs Klip and our group also agree that a clear commitment has been made by the Minister. But the question before us today is not whether a clear commitment has been made, but whether that commitment is sufficient. That's what we talked about yesterday. That has to do with the interpretation of that four-week period. I heard Mrs Klip say that in many other cases the four-week period has been suspended. My question is as follows. If something cannot be legally suspended and must legally be kept to the four-week period, does not follow it in other cases determine what is legal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u37	I don't think the law is being developed here, but state law. We heard the professor from Groningen yesterday. If you look at the letter of the law: the law indeed states the period of four weeks. We also operate in this political-administrative environment in interaction with a cabinet and with the ministers from that cabinet. If, for the second time, and even more explicitly, a minister writes a letter like this minister wrote today and sent it to us, then that is enough for our group to trust that the trajectory will run as the Minister outlines to us. The same goes for her successors on the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u38	I am not going to tire Mrs Klip with all kinds of concrete cases from administrative law, but if, for example, a law states that in a particular case a permit may not be granted, and the Minister, on the basis of a discussion with the Chamber, makes a commitment that that authorisation is granted, is that authorisation legal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u39	These are like-dance discussions. I'm not going to argue with you about that. We differ in our understanding of the value that we must attach to this cabinet's commitment through this minister and her colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr. Nicolaï, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u41	That's another question. That is a political question, namely whether a minister could perhaps be dealt with on the fact that he made a commitment he was not allowed to make. My question is whether an illegal implementation of the law, or an illegal decision by a minister, is to be regarded as a legal decision by us as the First Chamber under Mrs Moonen's new state law. I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u42	I understand you'd like a response to that. I think this is a wrong example, because I do not quantify this minister's commitment on behalf of the cabinet as an illegal commitment. So this is not at all a case we need to talk about at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you. Then Mrs Kluit on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u44	I took the Minister's letter again. It does say that the Minister wants to give us room in Parliament to deal with this. It doesn't say that, at the time when we as the First Chamber would vote negative about the KB in three months' time and from our attention to the implementation practice think "'we are not there yet'', and the Second Chamber says ''we are there', the Minister lets our negative judgment be decisive. That's exactly what we do have in that four-week period. We now have, if you can put it that way, the right of veto to say that we are not yet ready if we feel that there has been insufficient progress from the point of view of practice. The Minister doesn't mention that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u45	So your question is whether Mrs Klip agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u46	Yes. Does Mrs. Klip realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u47	I don't have the letter in front of me right now, and I don't know it completely by heart. As we read the letter, it says in my or our view that the Minister also says that she will not forward a KB to the King for ratification if there is no agreement from both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u48	It says: '[...] first hold the debate with the Chamber before the nomination can be made to the King'. So that's about the debate. It doesn't say she's gonna weigh our judgment. It says: "[...] the Cabinet will await the nomination of the Royal Decree to the King until this examination is completed."' It doesn't say she'll let our judgment be decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u49	You mean that the Minister will allow the judgment to be decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u50	We believe that this is the intention and commitment of this minister, and that is also the underlying idea of this letter. If it is not already in this letter, she has also said a number of times yesterday that she made a firm commitment, or that it was a firm political commitment from my mind, that she will not send a KB to the King for ratification if there is no agreement in both Chambers. I don't think I can say it any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mrs. Kluit, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u52	We have previously received letters from this minister setting out commitments which we had found together that the Minister did so in the debate in question. At that time, we noticed that some of our commitments were not properly formulated. We all know that a significant part of our commitments, which should have been implemented months ago, are still not there. You are committed to these commitments. Yesterday, the Minister promised to put in this letter exactly how she was going to do it. This is how she put it. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u53	I heard Mrs Klip say: yes, four weeks, well, you have to count a little recess and so on. Four weeks is four weeks. That's clip-and-ready. That was confirmed by the experts yesterday. If Mrs Klip applies for a building permit for which a certain period is set, let me just say: two months, then it is not so that, if the municipality is on holiday, it will be two months plus a holiday. That is, of course, never the intention of a deadline. A term is a term. I am sorry that Mrs Klip goes along with the Minister in this administrative trickbox in this reasoning. So please explain why you think that recess should be included in that period. All the experts, including myself, while I'm not even an expert yet, but I'm a lawyer, believe that this is just not right. Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u54	The professor from Groningen didn't put it so black and white yesterday. He indicated that there are two possibilities and that both interpretations apply. If you want to be one hundred percent or one hundred percent sure, you'll last four weeks. I cannot mention the regulations in question, but the practice that has arisen in the course of practice, of this Chamber and also of many fellow governments, that periods of recess are partly or entirely counted at certain times is not so unique. We just disagree about how we look at it. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u55	That's different from government to citizen. If you are one day late paying your tax or one day late applying for your permit, the consequences are immediately 100% clear. There may have been a practice that may have developed in less far-reaching legislative pathways than this largest legislative project for 100 years, but I think it is essential that we stick to the deadlines now. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to Mrs Klip, also to the debate on the interruption with Mr Nicolaï. I also heard Mrs Klip say that she also heard yesterday from the professor, our legal adviser, that there is a four-week deadline. If you want to be sure, there's a fatal four-week deadline. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u58	I heard him say that if you want to be 100% sure, four weeks is four weeks. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u59	This means that after those four weeks the position will change and so something else will have to replace it, in this case a commitment from the Minister. The discussion is about if you don't make a decision in those four weeks. Do you agree with me that after the four weeks, the position will indeed change and something else will have to replace it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u60	Once again, I think that in this political and administrative environment the kind of commitment that the Minister has made on behalf of her colleague is full of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u61	You will then find that after those four weeks there is something else in place to replace, if necessary, the 100% guarantee of the powers of the Chamber under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u62	Then we also have a discussion about those four weeks. That's what parties look at differently. You put it this way: it has to be within those four weeks and otherwise we will lose a certain position or a certain right. The Minister sets out the line we are more on: those four weeks are the minimum period for the cabinet. So within four weeks, the cabinet is not allowed to file a KB in the first place. In the period thereafter, the government's commitment is added.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr Janssen, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u64	Well, then we're actually saying the same thing. Within four weeks, the Chamber shall have the power to take its own decision. It will then be subject to the Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u65	That is not a question, I think, but a observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u66	I didn't hear a question. Thank you, Mrs. Klip. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SGP is feeling a little uncomfortable in this urgent debate. It is our preference that we take the time for our controlling role and at least wait for the substantive information that has been promised to us from BZK. My group therefore calls for a postponement of the decision on the RB in question. As far as we are concerned, this can also be done in the light of the Minister's letter on this matter and after her very clear commitment to this Chamber that no irreversible step is being taken. If we were to be forced to make a decision this evening, my group would be sensitive to the arguments of the UNG, namely that municipalities want clarity. But once again, the SGP does not want to take a decision on the RB this evening and therefore does not want to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. The IWO and EZK/LNV committees made history yesterday. A majority of the committees have stated that they do not rely on a commitment from the Minister, but that they seek refuge in the most restrictive interpretation of the law relating to the veil of the Royal Decree. Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber is legally founded. Her work is supported by trust; trust between the government and the Chamber, trust between the MPs. One element of this confidence relates to the role and status of commitments. This confidence has been damaged by the committee mentioned, to which our group is a member.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u70	I would like to make a correction to what Mr Verkerk just said. He said that yesterday the committee said by majority that it did not trust the minister. The committee's ruling yesterday was to have more confidence in the way that offered 100% certainty than the Minister's promise. We have repeatedly said that this is not about confidence in the Minister and the commitment, but we have more confidence in the other way. That's clearly something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u71	I note that we differ here too. When we called the professor from Groningen, he gave some room for interpretation. He also said that, in a slightly broader interpretation, a letter, as the Minister has done, with a commitment, gives all the room and all the confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u72	I agree with Mr Janssen, unless I have misunderstood. I actually heard Mr Verkerk say a bit that we were contemptuous towards the minister, because 'we had written history'. It's never been said that way. We have been told exactly what Mr Janssen has also said. I would like to ask Mr Verkerk if he does not remember that. Here's what we said. If you're making sure, we're going to vote now. If you can satisfy yourself with a commitment, which we all believe is a very solid and decent commitment, but it is a commitment, so of a different nature from the legal form, then today we will say that we do not need that vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u73	I did not say that the committee has no confidence in the minister. I have noted that the committee does not rely on the Minister's commitment, but is seeking its salvation in the most respective interpretation of the law. That's what I said!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u74	What does Mr Verkerk mean by 'we have written history', because that is just the usual way of doing things?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u75	I shall come back to this in the course of my speech, but it is history. It is in our history that when the Minister makes a commitment, we trust it. But I will come back to that and perhaps I can continue with my speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr. Nicolaï, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u77	I also trust the Minister's commitment. The whole committee relies on the Minister's commitment, but that is not the question. I would like Mr Verkerk to explain again what he means by 'writing history'. No one has said that we think that the Minister is not making promises that are of value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u79	As Mr Verkerk will remember, Professor Munneke also said. You can come back from a commitment under circumstances for administrative reasons, and that is a different situation than the situation where we have a right of veto, which you cannot come back to at all. I want Mr Verkerk to distinguish that clearly, and I think he should take back his words in that regard that we have written history, because we have not done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you. That was your third question in this interruption. I give the floor to Mr Verkerk. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. The question now before us is what choice the First Chamber will make. The Christian Union Group believes that there is only one choice that can be made, and that is to choose a political-administrative course that is supported by trust and in which every commitment counts. Any other choice undermines the standing of this Chamber. In its letter of 13 January 2021, the Minister explicitly promised that the Court would determine the process and the duration of the examination of the draft decision. It also undertakes that the KB will not be submitted to the King for ratification until the examination has been completed in the First Chamber. Finally, it undertakes that this also applies to its successors in accordance with normal state law. Mr. Chairman. The different authorities in our country follow the Upper House closely with regard to the Environment Act. Provinces, water authorities and municipalities are working hard to introduce them. They trust the First Chamber to do its job. If the First Chamber says that it no longer trusts the Minister's promises, then it has a further look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u82	You are speaking extensively about the letter written by the Minister. At the bottom of the letter is: of course it is important that the implementation practice is provided in good time with certainty about the date of introduction. How do you feel about that? How do you interpret that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u83	I have spoken extensively with the municipalities in our neighbourhood and with the province in the various treatment of the laws. One thing became clear: let us get a very clear signal from The Hague and get sufficient support from The Hague, because then we will also introduce it. There has been one thing of interest in the committee, and that is why we have also jointly written a letter to the effect that we have a number of substantive questions for the Minister. Are we ready to agree with the RB now, or do we need more time to do so? Well, we want those questions answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u84	I understand your answer, but I mean something else. It is said that there is therefore no legal term for the duration of the treatment. At the same time, however, it is said that it is important to clarify the date of implementation in good time for the implementation practice. That affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u85	I take it for a moment that it is politically-administratively wise that we take this decision before 1 January 2022. We enter into dialogue with each other on the Minister's answers. We will talk to the Minister in the course of the year. That may take two months, four months or maybe six months, but at some point the Chamber says: we are or are not convinced that this is the right time for the introduction of the CAB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mrs. Bezaan, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u87	I will end with the observation that you are in favour of introducing it as of 1 January 2021, coûte que coûte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u88	No, I didn't say that. Firstly, 2021 is not going to happen, which will be 2022. No, not coûte que coûte. The Christian Union also wrote the letter together with the whole committee and said: we want to be convinced by the Minister on the basis of facts and data. We have confidence in this minister and all the officials. I would also like to refer to what Mr Van Dijk said about the VNG's position. I would point out that the UNG, the Union of Water Councils and the IPO have said together: we have confidence in the date of 1 January 2022 and the Minister is going to convince us that this will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u89	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. I'm already on my last paragraph. The standing of the First Chamber is at stake. The Christian Union Group opts for an orderly political-administrative consultation based on trust. The group opts for constructive cooperation with the Minister. And the group also opts for respectful cooperation within the committee. The group thanks the Minister for her clear letter and also for the confidence that it brings to the Chamber. The Christian Union Group would like to work with you and with all the members of the committee and the government on this KB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Then I give the floor to Mr Janssen, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr President, may I ask you to put my time on the four minutes I have mentioned to the Registrar earlier and which I have also been confirmed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u93	My list says two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u94	That was the old list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u95	This is the most recent list I have, but I'm happy to set the time to four minutes and zero seconds. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u96	Fine, thank you. Mr. Chairman. I don't have any questions for the Minister. After all, we have already written to them and I await their reply. As far as I'm concerned, we didn't have to have a debate tonight either. Just before the historiography: yesterday we could and would have voted on this pre-arranged KB, when it became clear in committee that a majority in this Chamber of Labour Party, 50PLUS, PVV, Forum for Democracy, Van Pareren Group, GroenLinks, Party for Animals, Otten Group and SP wanted to vote against this proposed KB, in order to safeguard the position of the First Chamber in decisions on the date of its introduction, also heard the clear legal advice of our advisor. The explicit request was made yesterday by the parties just mentioned for that vote to be taken yesterday. Unfortunately, circumstances have prevented this from happening. But if a majority had wanted to vote in favour by show of hands yesterday, then we would not have had to get together and thus not have had to cause unnecessary travel movements and burdens on our already overasked staff. Mr. Chairman. The Environment Act is the largest legislative operation since the Constitution was introduced in 1848. If we add the words of former Minister Schultz van Haegen, that it is the largest ICT project ever in the government, then the size of the project becomes clear. This is a decision with far-reaching financial and substantive implications for citizens, municipalities, provinces, water authorities and government. That requires this Chamber to use its independent, decisive power to say yes or no to a pre-arranged KB. "Maybe" is not in the law and the minister now wants us to say "maybe." However, four weeks after the veil, the independent power of this Chamber to decide directly under the law lapses. The Minister wants to replace this with a political commitment as a basis, of which she herself, legally speaking, has the last word. Mr. Chairman. Not voting against this Royal Decree, as we wanted to do yesterday by a majority of the Committee, makes the control of this Chamber dependent on an employee of the Minister who has already publicly indicated that the time is ripe to definitively establish that the Environment Act will be implemented as of 1 January 2022. Why do I say that? I refer to the motion tabled by the VVD and the CDA in the House of Representatives and the Minister's reaction to it and its action. The motion called for the date of introduction of the Environment Act to be definitively adopted on 1 January 2022. The Minister's reaction to this in the note consultation was that she agrees with it. "The time is right," said the Minister. "'There really needs to be clarity for the fellow governments."' It is therefore clear that the Environmental Act will enter into force definitively on 1 January 2022. The motion was therefore happy to leave the Chamber of Appeal. Mr. Chairman. No reservations were expressed by the Minister about the treatment in the Upper Chamber, where there are many questions which she also knew, and where the time was not yet considered ripe for the final adoption of the Act's entry into force on 1 January 2022. But according to the minister, the time is right, and so the KB was hung. And if this Chamber does not vote against this predestined KB on the last day that this is possible, perhaps tomorrow another part of the day, it will lose its direct decision-making vote under the law and will depend on a minister who has already indicated that the time is ripe to finally establish that the law must enter into force on 1 January 2022. Our legal adviser was extremely clear about that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Nooren asked a moment ago for an opportunity to do it even differently. I made a suggestion yesterday. If the Minister withdraws this veil, the six-week period will not run until she can make another nomination, so she could do so at any time. But the SP stands for the independent determining voice and position of the Upper House. That is why we shall be voting against this proposed RB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u97	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u98	Mr. Chairman. "The Environment Act: for what problem is this the solution?" For example, I started my first term on 20 January 2020, almost a year ago, when a majority in this Upper House opposed this administrative and legal disorder. Integrating 26 existing laws into one Environment Act, a failed integration project in advance. I will not repeat all the objections in detail here. They can all be seen through the link I posted on Twitter earlier this evening. This Environment Act is an administrative prestige project of the Rutte cabinet. The Minister has now opened her administrative trickbox to guide the introduction of this Environment Act through the Upper House. It is good to see that there are now increasing concerns among many groups about the ill-thought-out implementation of this Environmental Act. Mr. Chairman. A special thank you to the Registry, who, yesterday afternoon, provided us with sound external legal advice at the IWO committee meeting. Four weeks is four weeks. That was also the opinion of the legal experts. The Minister tried to convince us that we ourselves did not understand it properly. Today and also yesterday, she tried that. Today we received another letter in which it was tried again. It is a good thing that many in this First Chamber are now pulling the legal emergency brake and that we do not allow ourselves to be put under time pressure by the Minister. After all, this is one of the most important legislative projects in a long time. Mr. Chairman. Our group does not sometimes get the impression that this Minister sometimes sees the First Chamber as a nuisance in its decision-making process. On 23 June last year, this minister received a motion of censure on her pants in a roll-call vote, adopted in this First Chamber with 39 votes in favour and 36 against. It was the first time since 1875 that something like this happened, that a minister did. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday and today, the committee gave the Minister every opportunity to withdraw the draft KB and then re-table it correctly so that we can deal with it carefully here, but apparently the Minister thinks that she can make this Chamber wise. As far as our group is concerned, that almost borders on democratic dedain. Our group will therefore vote against the KB draft, because then we will be able to do it again in a correct way. I see Mrs. Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u99	Mrs. Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u100	Does Mr Otten actually know the position of the entrepreneurs of the Netherlands on the Environment Act? How does he look at the position of Dutch entrepreneurs when it comes to the Environment Act? What's your take on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u101	It's very funny that you're asking, because I happened to be looking back at my first term last year last night. That question was also asked, I believe by Mr Rietkerk of the CDA. I can assure you that I have had a great deal of contact recently with people from the legal profession, in particular, who assist those entrepreneurs on a daily basis. They are all aware that this has very bad consequences for entrepreneurs, because it creates legal uncertainty and the demarcation between civil law and administrative law has to be re-established in case law. There are a lot of new counters where one should or should not go. Which body makes the decision? An entire maze has been created in this law. Last year, I explained all this in detail during the first term. For example, I referred to a piece by Mr Kortmann and Mr Van der Grinten in the Dutch Juristenblad. Maybe that's what you read at the time. They also represent the interests of entrepreneurs. They have given a comprehensive indication of what the objections are. As far as we are concerned, we can repeat the debate on the Environment Act very well. I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u102	Well, I think this answer was enough. Mrs Moonen, do you have a second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u103	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I note that it is wrong what Mr Otten is saying here about the position of business associations in the Netherlands, and certainly of VNO-NCW, in which hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs are represented. They're just waiting for this Environment Act. They also felt that a Digital System should work, that it should work in implementation, but they were very disappointed at the fact that the date of implementation of the Act was postponed by one year. That is the position of the entrepreneurs in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u104	I'd like to respond to that. That may be the position of VNO-NCW, but we are making our own judgement here. It is also not the blissful position of the entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, I think. Many of the entrepreneurs I speak to are not waiting for this, and, more importantly, many of the municipalities we speak to are not waiting for this at all. They are not ready or able to get the substantial costs, because this is a very ambitious project. And then I'm gonna give up on the ICT aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u105	This answer is enough, I think. Would you like to resume your speech? Then I'll turn the clock back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u106	Mr President, to conclude. Oh, I see Mr Bakker making a start. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u107	He does make a move, but he doesn't make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u108	But not to argue with me. I can also see him going back to his place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u109	Your speaking time is up, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u110	As far as we are concerned, therefore, the motto is that anyone who does not want to hear must feel. Then we'll just have to do it this way. As far as we are concerned, it could have been more elegant if the Minister had repented after yesterday in committee was quite clear what the relations were. But, yeah, it's got to be like this. For this, someone else already recalled that the intention was to vote immediately in the plenary session, so we would not have had to do all this, but it went much faster than was apparently foreseen. That's why we can still do that here tonight. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mrs Moonen has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the D66 Group would like to thank the Minister for her clear letter. The essence of the letter is that the Minister says that the pace of treatment is determined by this Upper Chamber. According to the Minister, the First Chamber determines its own process and duration. Treatment does not need to take place or be completed within four weeks. The four-week period applies to the cabinet, not the parliament. The Minister sees the veil of the draft Royal Decree as the continuation of the discussion which the Minister is having with our Chamber on the implementation of the Environment Act. The fraction of D66 has followed a consistent line. We have always believed that the four weeks were not a fatal deadline for parliamentary debate. Co-workers are worried. They don't feel the same way about this. However, we firmly believe that the Minister, with her letter, which she has sent on behalf of her colleague, the Minister of Justice and Security, has now clarified all points, including on behalf of her possible successors. That was D66's input. We find the Minister's line and letter very clear and consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u113	That puts you at the end of your input. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u114	In my speech, I noted that we came to the conclusion in committee in December that we had too little information to give a good judgment on the feasibility of the law. That is why we have asked questions and tried to establish a dialogue between cabinet and First Chamber in order to assess this feasibility, in line with the commitment to the Introduction Act, where the then Minister said: "'We take the First Chamber seriously. The First Chamber looks at the feasibility of the law. We appreciate that as a cabinet. It is only after that process has been completed that it is the right time to determine what a good introduction date is."' In the interruption of D66 it is repeatedly said that it is very important that the law was introduced in 2022. I am curious on the basis of which Mrs Moonen has come to the conclusion that she now has enough information that the DSO is in order, that the finances are in order and that the roles are divided. Because it has always indicated in a number of interruptions that everyone is waiting for 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u115	What Mrs Nooren says, I did not say at all. The point is that when the Chamber indicates that it is considering the draft, the person responsible will hold the debate with the Chamber before any nomination is made to the King. Even if that debate lasts for two months or maybe four months. There's no fatal end-date. I agree with Mrs Nooren that we still have a lot of questions to ask the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Of course we must first receive the answers, and of course we are going to study them. Because, and that is also a consistent line of D66, Mrs Van Veldhoven, when she replaced the minister, has very emphatically said: to introduce such an environmental law, you can only do that once and you have to do that right away. This was also indicated as a very consistent line of government that you can only do it properly once. So you're gonna have to take your time. That is exactly what the letter we received from the Minister today is about, indicating that there is no final deadline. As long as we as the First Chamber have questions, reservations or concerns, for example about the functioning of the DSO and the municipalities, then there will be no nomination to the King all this time, because then the minister, the responsible executive, is still in discussion with our Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u116	That wasn't my question. There is a royal decree containing the hard introduction date 2022. I know that we could have that debate between now and perhaps December 2022, but the PvdA Group wants to stop us from taking a decision today which we implicitly agree to introduce in 2022. I hear you say: I understand what you are saying; the Minister and also Mrs van Veldhoven have promised that we will have all the time to talk about the conditions of introduction. But I also think a debate is worth the question: is 2022, with what we know now... As I said in my speech, the PvdA cannot say today: 2022; I know enough to decide on this. I hear D66 say: I can talk to the Minister about the introduction in the coming months, but I believe 2022 is not a hard date. 'Cause that's in the KB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u117	If you look at the spirit of the letter drawn up by the Minister, but also at the letter, then there is no fatal deadline, either for our debate... It may well be conceivable... I also think of Mrs Van Veldhoven's words during the debates, the commitments that have been made. It has been specifically said: you can only do it right once. That was the central sentence there. This means that the subject of debate is with the Minister if we, as the First Chamber, consider that it would be wise at some point to wait for the introduction to take place. So there could be motives to possibly put something with that date. There's no reason to suppose that space isn't here anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u118	Mrs. Nooren, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u119	If we have to vote today on the Royal Decree, in which 2022 is in place, what will the D66 Group do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u120	Finally, Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u121	I'm not ready yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u122	I'll see who's next. Mr Van Pareren, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u123	You have come to the question of other parties with great certainty: do you think that it is necessary to start on 1 January 2022? Now I understand from you that you do not have a position on this yourself. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u124	That's how I see it. I stick to Mrs Van Veldhoven's commitment and sense: we can only do it right once. It is incredibly important that municipalities, provinces and water boards are sufficiently ready when the Environment Act is implemented. This is also important for the entrepreneurs, for the people who are going to apply for permits. Those permits should go straight away. It is also important that the Netherlands does not lock up, because if the implementation were to go wrong, it could have very negative consequences for entrepreneurs and construction. That is why I participated in asking questions, including about the Digital System Environment Act. We're gonna get those answers. We're going to study them well. Then we will see with wisdom whether that "doing good at once" is indeed clear within that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u125	The Netherlands cracks from the covid, to call it that. Municipalities, entrepreneurs, Dutch people who do not undertake and who are not with the municipality; everyone is busy with it and is afraid of it. You have the utmost confidence that the entrepreneurs say "'as soon as possible' " VNO-NCW calls you to mind; that's only partly "but they say that they want to have quality'. You yourself say that there are still a lot of questions. How realistic do you think it is now that 1 January 2022 is really going to be the deadline? Because we are still standing here with so many open questions, with money needed by municipalities, with the completion of the entire IT journey. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u126	I see this as follows, and that is also the beauty of this afternoon's letter, namely that we do not have a final deadline. As long as we have questions about this performance, as long as we are insecure and think that it may not be enough, as long as there are still municipalities in the Netherlands that are not ready for it, there will be no lecture to the King. 'Cause the First Chamber's up. The First Chamber is there the Minister is very clear about the tempo of the treatment...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u127	Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u128	... sowehavethedirection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u129	Mr. Van Pareren, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u130	Yes, it is the third. I understand very well what the First Chamber is doing and what the Minister's letter indicates. What matters to me is just a practical question. This is, as we just heard, the biggest law in 100 years. It doesn't matter how many years, but it's a very big law with a lot of side streets to get into one street. How realistic is this? Because that's the practice. Entrepreneurs will not be happy if we say immediately 'it must be 1 January 2022, because we think that', while we have not yet asked all the questions and we know that there is still a great deal to be done. So I really don't understand your point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u131	Mrs Moonen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u132	I don't think the date should be leading. Leading must be that we enter it properly at once. We can only do it right once. That's leading in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u133	Mrs Moonen and I agree. The Minister's last letter ends with: "Your Chamber, however, determines when the procedure for the entry into force of the KB has been completed."' That's clip-and-ready. That's obvious. So that's not the point the discussion is about. The discussion has been concluded, but the majority does not think that an entry into force on 1 January 2022 is really desirable. Where does the Minister's letter state that the Minister will follow that judgment and will refrain from asking for contrasign?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u134	I think the government has every interest in that. In the end, a government wants to introduce a functioning system. This system has been in operation for 10 years. I was still involved in the start of the Environment Act myself. That started over ten years ago. A government has every interest in introducing a system that is properly implemented at once. The government has no interest in running large risks with an ICT project and will therefore not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u135	I think the government has every interest in not letting an unenforceable law enter into force, but the government has a judgment on the feasibility and the First Chamber has a judgment on the feasibility. But what if the majority of the Chamber finds him not sufficiently practicable and the minister and the government find him enforceable? That's the question. If we now follow Rule 23.10, it is up to us to say: it is not feasible, it is ready. Then there is a ban for the Minister to let him enter into force. If that ban is no longer in place and we have to work with a commitment, then I would like to know what was said in that commitment. Same thing, don't you think? I have the next question, because you did not answer it. Do you read in the letter that if the Chamber considers that the entry into force should not take place, the government, even if it decides otherwise, will follow the judgment of the Chamber? I'd like to hear yes or no on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u136	I'll read that in two passages. The Minister makes a clear commitment that the cabinet will not take any irreversible steps until the parliamentary debate is concluded. This underlines once again what is also stated in the letter, namely that it is up to the First Chamber. It determines the process and the duration. As long as we as the First Chamber do not think that it is sufficiently finished, then the cabinet and any successors in law cannot give a lecture to the King all this time. How clear can you be? You can't actually be any clearer than this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u137	Mr. Nicolaï, your third. You're gonna get rid of it. Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u138	Mrs Moonen states that it is not in the government's interest to introduce a law that the practice is not ready for. Ever since I've been here, I've been confronted with the PAS and with pfas. Does Mrs Moonen agree with me that they were both the result of steps and laws of previous Cabinets, because that is not just here and that when we voted on these laws we knew that there were risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u139	We're in a different situation here. We are in a situation in which we have received a letter from the government indicating that we are inclined, that the direction lies with the First Chamber, that we determine the trial and that we determine the time. So that is a completely different situation from what the speaker is saying. I find that incomparable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u140	I'm gonna get on with it anyway. In this Chamber, we share this with each other, and I am delighted that we are not yet ready to implement the law and that we still lack crucial information. Suppose we wait in the debate, that we all do it carefully and that the Minister says at the end: fine, you come to a judgment. And that the House of Representatives says to the Minister: top, we're ready, we're going to introduce it. But we note that the budgets are not yet sufficient, have little confidence in the DSO and come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u141	Mrs. Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u142	My question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u143	I did hear an implicit question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u144	I was breathing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u145	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u146	Then my question to Mrs Moonen is what gives us as a Chamber our independent position. I address Mrs Moonen here as part of Parliament and not as part of the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u147	Once again, the letter is very clear about it: as long as we Members of Parliament have questions in the First Chamber and as long as we think it is not ready for the nomination to the King, the Minister cannot do so. She writes that herself; she admits that. So the ball and the direction is with the members of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u148	Mrs. Kluit, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u149	Is my analysis that you say: as long as we remain in talks with the Minister, there is no majority for the CAB and we do not make a decision? In the meantime, suppose the minister or her successor comes to a different conclusion and thinks: we do want to introduce. Does Mrs Moonen agree with me that we have lost our legal position at that time? 'Cause that's what it's about. We all believe in careful decision-making; there is no doubt at all. The question is whether, if we come to a different conclusion than the House of Representatives, we still have the legal position to vote against and then stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u150	Mrs Moonen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u151	I think that the First Chamber can make an independent assessment, given today's letter but also in view of previous explanations given on this matter. As First Members of Parliament, we have a stand-alone position in this whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u153	May I ask one more clarifying question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u154	No, it is three questions per interruption, because we have a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u155	Yeah, but this is the core of what we're talking about. So I'd like to just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u156	If you have a final comment, make it brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u157	So I hear it right: do you think that we have a stand-alone position in order to reach a verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u158	Finally, Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u159	See, the Minister himself writes that as long as this veil is under discussion, also in this First Chamber, and as long as she is in discussion with us on this matter, she is not going to do the nomination to the King. How clear can you be? In that respect, I am going to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u160	In fact, you answer the question I put to the Minister; she still has to answer it. In Mrs Moonen's view, the date of 1 January 2022 is therefore, in fact, an open date. Is it true that if the deliberations continue in the First Chamber and there will be no approval, the date may have been postponed as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u161	It could be a imaginable scenario. This country has no interest in the introduction of a law... If municipalities were to report it, I wouldn't expect it, but what if they weren't sufficiently ready, and if SMEs were to say they weren't sufficiently ready, then of course we would have to act with each other in wisdom and make decisions in wisdom. It's also for D66 that it's a law... Again, you can only do it right once. So the law has to work to its content, for the purpose that was intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u162	Thank you for Mrs Moonen's reply. I hope we all have that wisdom. No one would want a law to come into force if the feasibility is still under discussion, but I think it is quite remarkable that, in the light of the veil, Mrs Moonen's idea of 1 January 2022 could then be put into effect. So I'd like another confirmation of what she's saying right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u163	That is actually based on the letter in which the Minister himself says that there is no fatal deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u164	Mrs Moonen just interrupted me with the question about entrepreneurs. Mrs Moonen herself has been CEO of the Pension Fund for Health and Welfare, if I am not mistaken, with some 300 billion invested assets. So she also knows entrepreneurs. A commitment that is well known in business and often cynically used is: trust me, I am from the head office, I am here to help you. There's a lot of laughs when that comes up. Now we have a minister who, for the first time since 1875, has had a motion of censure in this First Chamber; we have, for the record, voted against it. But why should we, as the First Chamber, ask Mrs Moonen, have our own prerogatives as legislative representative determined by a minister, and a minister against whom the same body has been the only one to have adopted a motion of censure since time immemorial after a roll-call vote? I'd still like to know. Why do you want to limit yourself to that? Why do you want to surrender the rights we have as First Chamber for a vague commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u165	First of all, I was not CEO but chairman of the Pension Fund for Health and Welfare. I'd like to make that right here. The Minister is here on behalf of the government. That's always the way it is. The Minister speaks on behalf of the entire government. She has once again stated that she is also explicitly making, on behalf of the Minister of Justice and Security, the arrangements that are in the letter today, as well as possible successors. We do indeed have sufficient confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u166	Yes, but you don't explain to me... We have certain rights to do so by proper procedure, based on 23.10 of the Environment Act. That has been remembered many times. Why should we deviate from that? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u167	I don't think we're going to deviate from anything. We're dealing with a hanging procedure here. There are certain rules of the game for a veil. Those have been clarified in the letter today, namely that in this pending procedure, the First Chamber rules on trial, content and duration. That seems to me to be a very satisfactory and trustworthy response from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u168	Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u169	Finally, Mr President. I'm sorry I said CEO of the pension fund. I meant, of course, chairman of the board of directors. It's a good thing Mrs. Moonen corrected me. But then Mrs Moonen will also know that if, for example, a retired person is entitled to a pension on 1 January 2022, you just happen to be able to say the planned date for the introduction of this Environmental Act, not as chairman of the board of directors of the pension fund: there were some holidays in between and we were a little busy, so it will be April or May. Of course, it doesn't work that way. A term is a term. This is true in business. This also applies from the government to entrepreneurs. It applies to the government to the First Chamber. I would like to draw Mrs Moonen's attention once again, through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u170	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is an emergency debate. I am glad that the Minister is here, so that we can at least discuss her letter with her. The Minister was on the committee yesterday, but not during the discussions we had with an external legal adviser. The question that was raised is, after all, the important question that arises. In her letter, the Minister goes into that as well. That is the question: is the four weeks a fatal deadline? By a fatal deadline, we mean that something will change your legal status once that deadline has passed. That's a fatal deadline. Professor Munneke was clear about that. He said: if you read the text of Article 23.10, the bottom line is that if you have not made a decision within those four weeks, then that is where we stand today in favour of not voting, you have lost your right. If I read the Minister's letter correctly, she does not agree with Professor Munneke, nor with others who follow the same reasoning. The Minister says that it is not a fatal deadline. However, I would like to refer to the Minister that she takes note of the instructions for regulation. In her letter, she also mentions it. Article 2.38 deals with the suspension of the decision. In the first paragraph it says that you should be careful that at least three-quarters of the term is left outside a recess of the Chambers. Then I read in the explanatory statement: 'In order to ensure that the States-General can actually exercise their rights, it is desirable to take account of the recess periods of the States-General'. That is an explanation of a provision which the Minister is actually referring to. If you say that the recess periods of the States-General must be taken into account, because otherwise the rights cannot actually be exercised, then for every lawyer it automatically follows that it is therefore a fatal period. I see the Minister shaking no. I'm very curious about her reasoning. But if you didn't, you couldn't lose your rights either. Nor would the explanatory statement state that it is necessary to do something to ensure that the States-General can actually exercise their rights. No matter how you turn it, the Minister will argue so directly that she sees it differently. I could continue to argue here, along with Professor Munneke and other legal scholars, that you should see it that way. So there's still uncertainty. We are now standing here because the majority said yesterday: in a situation of uncertainty we choose the sure way. We need to be aware of that. We should not discuss whether it is a proper date or the interpretation of the law. We are standing here because we said yesterday in a majority: we do not want to be in an uncertain position that it may indeed be a fatal period and that we have let it go and have lost our rights. Of course, a commitment has been made. I have already pointed that out in the interruptions. Such a clear commitment made by a minister is important. It should also be complied with under state law. But a commitment is not a legal rule. You can deviate from a commitment under circumstances. If we choose to be sure, then it is clear that today we will not escape our decision not to agree. But let's get back to that commitment. Other parties consider this commitment to be very important, and I am curious to see what the Minister has promised. Others have asked questions about this in the interruptions. I read that the commitment is that the debate will continue until the First Chamber has decided that it has been concluded. I have asked Mrs Moonen: where does the Minister's promise say that if that conclusion leads us as the First Chamber to believe that the law is not yet ready for entry into force, the Minister will follow that judgment? Where does it say that? I don't read it. If the Minister says she did, I'd say, well, write it down. So that's my question. Where does that say, and did the Minister mean it to be? The second question, which is not insignificant, is... I am almost done with my speech, so perhaps I can finish the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u172	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u173	That is the question: is the government legally competent to counter-sign a pre-arranged decision even if the majority consider it undesirable? Is the government legally competent to do so when the time limit specified in the legal provision is over? I would also like to ask the Minister whether she thinks it wise, as a minister, as we did yesterday in the majority, to be sure when there is uncertainty about legal matters and there is a huge interest at stake. I would also like to hear that from the Minister. And finally. Suppose the minister says today: okay, let's move it in, then we'll have all the space again; we'll start again. What kind of problem does it pose? I would like the Minister to answer that question. And then the next one. If today we decide not to agree, what is the problem? If I have understood correctly, the Minister may, as Mrs Moonen said, if the debate has continued and has come to a conclusion, and we believe that it is appropriate for it to enter into force, at that time simply to preside over the decision. And then it's a piece of cake to get it through the Second and First Chambers very quickly. So what exactly are we doing? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u174	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u175	"'Eventjes"' lasted a minute and a half, but there are seven left. What I like about Mr. Nicolaï is that he attaches great importance to the Minister's promises and answers. That's what he says. My search is next. What is the government's commitment? Suppose the minister says: "I may not have written it so conveniently. I should have written in a letter that the KB is not confirmed and is not sent to the King after this Chamber has completed the procedure and the First Chamber has agreed to this KB."' What if the minister goes so far? And then I'm gonna move on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u176	You mean, you didn't agree to it, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u177	Well, it is. It doesn't matter what she does, but I mean that she waits for the judgment of this Chamber and only... no, of course we have to agree, otherwise it won't go to the King. You've got the KB's treatment. We have said that we want it to be a responsible implementation on substantive grounds, regardless of how long the deadline is. Eventually there will be a vote on the KB or there will be an opinion on the KB of this Chamber, regardless of what everyone thinks. Suppose the Minister says: I do nothing to the King other than after careful treatment in the First Chamber, and I attach myself to a final judgment of the First Chamber next to that of the Second Chamber. I think that's what we want. We want to maintain the position of the First Chamber. What kind of problem do we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u178	Well, there's always a final verdict, but I thought for a moment that your question was: should we read the Minister's letter in such a way that she's not going to ask the contradiction until the First Chamber has agreed to enter into force? The Minister will probably answer that himself, but was that your question? If that is the case, at least we have a clear commitment in which, I shall say, the right of assent of this Chamber is fully incorporated in the commitment. That's one. You're acting like this, so we've got it inside. But I wonder if the Minister intends to say that. Then the second. I wrote my dissertation on the principles of good governance. About 30 pages are about the principle of trust. The principle of trust in administrative law, a commitment in administrative law and state law, is of a different nature than a commitment between individuals. When individuals meet, they're actually attached to it. Justice in state and administrative law assumes that a commitment is, in principle, binding on the public body, but that it may nevertheless deviate from that commitment if it is required to do so by overriding general interests. The people who listened to Professor Munneke yesterday heard him say that explicitly. He said it might be that you say that there is actually so much haste and that the things you disagree about are such a minor point, that you do not go along with that. Then, as a state and government body, you have the legal space to say: I do not follow the commitment. That is, of course, an important element. You could ask yourself, when is that gonna happen? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u179	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u180	The only thing I know is that, if we want to secure our position today at least, we should not create the situation that we will end up in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u181	Mrs. Nooren, third, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u182	Second, but it doesn't matter. The answers are long and complicated. The question from the PvdA Group concerns the following. The representative of the Party for Animals seems to say "but perhaps he doesn't mean it so that he doesn't actually give in to promises." There is a promise from a minister in a letter that says something about the procedure we have with this law. If the Minister goes so far as not to do anything, unless the First Chamber agrees by majority to this law, then you say: that is not of value to me. That's what you're saying. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u183	Mr. Nicolaï. Short answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u184	No, I'm not saying that's not of value. I think that's very valuable. I would very much like to know if the Minister is thinking that way. All I'm saying is that, legally speaking, we'll always have a different position than the position given to us in Article 23.10. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u185	Mrs. Nooren, finally. This will be the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u186	Sorry, Chairman. Yes, legally, but ultimately it's about state law. That's what it's all about in the end. It's about how we do it together. We also had a debate on this in the e-mail. In the end, state law also determines how we do things here. My appeal to the Registry was to get more clarification about this, because I don't want to end up in this position at all. But we're in that position now and we're looking for a way together to have a careful treatment of the Environmental Law Introduction Act. No, I think we're now aiming at the introduction of the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u188	I promise I'll go into that very briefly. We will achieve this position when the Minister withdraws this nomination and says: we will start again and I will not make a speech until I understand that we in the First Chamber are going in the direction of agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u190	I think that Mr Nicolaï is now at the heart of the matter. In administrative law, there is a great deal of case law on the status of commitments. Mr Nicolaï knows a lot more about this than I do, but during my studies I learned a lot about it from former D66-prominent Scheltema, who also knows a lot about it. The essence of the matter is that a commitment can be waived. There is a principle of trust, but a commitment can be waived if other interests give rise to consideration. So this is the heart of the matter. I just spoke to Mr Kox, because I asked him about the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u191	What is your question to Mr Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u192	I would like to ask whether Mr Nicolaï agrees with me. That motion of censure was adopted because this Minister did not carry out two motions previously adopted in this Chamber. So my question is: what is this track record, the status of this minister's commitment, according to Mr Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u193	Even if you've done stupid things, it doesn't mean you're gonna keep doing stupid things. I would like to give this Minister the confidence that, if a commitment is made now, we can keep it. That is all I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u194	But I understand that Mr Nicolaï prefers that the Minister withdraws the draft decision, or that we use Article 23.10 and now vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u195	That was my last question, but the Minister still has to answer it. What are we really doing? If she withdraws it now or if we decide not to give her consent now, we will start fresh again and then the whole process that Mrs Moonen was talking about can be ended. Then I think that this will only benefit the relationship of trust, both within the committee and with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u196	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Finally, I will go to Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for this afternoon's letter. We looked forward to that, because it has already been said that it came a little later. But in the end, it's about content. The CDA Group considers a responsible implementation of the Environment Act to be of permanent importance. We also believe that the First Chamber has others who have said that it determines its own process and its own duration. As a CDA, we have noted that we have also agreed in committee that we are not having a debate on substantive issues this evening. Not about the DSO, not about finance, not about the environmental service, not about licensing and so on. As a group, but also as a committee, we look forward to the answers to the questions we have put in a letter to the committee. We also look forward to this substantive debate, because we all need it. The constitutional position of the Supreme Court, that's what we're talking about tonight. In the letter, the passage "Ar 2.36" is also abbreviated "that the nomination of a royal decree is not made before four weeks." It's addressed to the cabinet in state law. Because the Royal Decree, the Royal Decree, is linked to and a formal power of the Cabinet. I ask the Minister if she can explain this again, because I also see in this Chamber that we are of the state-law idea that this is not clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u198	Mr Rietkerk says he does not want to talk about the content tonight. At the same time, the vote on the Royal Decree is scheduled for this evening. If we come to the vote tonight, then there is a judgment: are we going to continue or are we not going to proceed? Would Mr Rietkerk think that we should be taking a decision on some of the concerns that we have with each other here in this Chamber, namely the three that I mentioned in my speech? This is about working in the DSO, funding from local authorities and the VTH column and the implementation organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u199	And a fifth point we have all mentioned as a committee. I maintain that we would like to discuss it in substance, because, as far as I am concerned, we are now starting the procedure for a substantive debate on all these points. I've got a few more with you and the whole room. But that's not the job of talking about this tonight. I shall come back to it in my further speech and build on why I think so or why my group thinks so. Then perhaps you can ask me about this at the end of my speech. Otherwise, I will not be able to finish my speech properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u200	I understand Mr Rietkerk's answer. Apparently, he thinks we are starting the debate tonight, but tonight's vote is on the agenda. Tonight we are voting on the introduction of the Environment Act as of 1 January 2022. Does Mr Rietkerk think it is important that we should provide some guarantees with each other to ensure that it does not go unexpectedly wrong in its implementation? No one wanted it this way. That's what we're unisono about. We're standing here and we're voting on this tonight. Does Mr Rietkerk agree with me that, because we are forced to do so, it is good to provide some guarantees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u201	With you, I do not know exactly how this debate continues. I would also like to await the Minister's first term. Then we will suspend; I will end up with that too. The CDA group will then make up its mind. I think it is too early to comment on the substance of your speech. We will then have a substantive debate and we would not do that. I would like to continue with my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u202	Mrs Kluit agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u203	The CDA sees tonight, like the PvdA and other parties, as a start for the substantive debate. That is absolutely necessary, I also say to Mrs Kluit. This is a substantive debate with the answers of the cabinet and the information of municipalities, provinces and water boards that was received by everyone at the office or via the app during the afternoon. I ask the Minister whether there is a legal deadline or final deadline for this substantive debate that we want to conduct as the First Chamber and which we want to control ourselves. The CDA sees this debate as a starting point for the substantive debate that is to come. The letter states quite clearly: "As long as our substantive debate is not completed, the cabinet awaits the presentation of the Royal Decree to the King until this discussion is concluded." Mr. Chairman. I have three constitutional questions about this. One. Is this the case of state law correct? Two. Can the First Chamber organise its own trial and how can the Minister do justice to the position of the First Chamber? Three. Does the Supreme Court hold its constitutional position in this way in order to finally, after consideration, be able to say yes or no to the CFI? Mr. Chairman. After replying to the questions by the Minister in the first place, the CDA Group, together with other political groups, may be considering tabling a motion, but in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that at least five other Members be suspended. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u204	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. You want a suspension at the end of the Prime Minister's first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u205	Yes, a suspension at the end of the Prime Minister's first term in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u206	As you know, we always agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u207	A point of order. We have until 24:00 tonight to agree. I suggest we do that. There are groups here that value that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u208	I suggest that the Minister should enter into that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u209	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you. The Minister isn't about that. You are our master of ceremonies in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u210	We'll find out during the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u211	Would you please make sure that we are back together about half an hour before 24:00, so that we can finish it in order by 24:00?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u212	If that's necessary. When that deadline expires.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u213	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u214	I don't think so, but I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u215	On a point of order, Mr President. There will be an unjustified request for suspension at once. We are here today, following yesterday's committee meeting, to vote. We were supposed to do that last night, but then the debate went a little faster than anticipated. That's why we're here tonight. If Mr Rietkerk wishes to suspend for a few minutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u216	No, Mr. Otten...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u217	This is an important point of order, Mr President. If Mr Rietkerk wishes to suspend for a few minutes to discuss with his group chairman or something like that, then we can agree, but we have to vote this evening, because we are here to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u218	All we have now is an order proposal for suspension. I agreed to that. That has been further encouraged by Mrs Kluit because there is still something to figure out. At least that's what we're gonna do. No procedural proposal has been made to postpone the vote. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u219	I would like to support the argument that, in view of what we decided yesterday, as I said in my speech, and the fact that we wanted to vote yesterday, we do not go through a time limit which gives the vote a different load than it should have. If the deadline is 24 hours, it must also be by 24 hours. Otherwise, we might as well not have come here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u220	If that is the deadline, we will do everything in our power to do so. I'm also looking at the minister and the clerk to see if that's true. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u221	I hear you say "if that's the term." But then we might have another discussion about the deadline. We have come together here because the majority felt that, in a situation with uncertainties, we should choose the sure way. So even if you say "'I've figured it out and as far as I'm concerned it doesn't end until tomorrow', we've still come here to vote. I do not think that any of the groups that said yesterday that they wanted to move it to plenary will now take a different view. So no matter how you turn it or turn it around, I will respect your judgment when it comes to whether or not it should be, we are going to go for the sure above the uncertain and as far as our group is concerned, we are going to vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u222	I didn't announce anything else either. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u223	The same applies to our group. Otherwise, as a point of order, we will ask for a vote on this suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u224	Excellent. Then we are at the end of Mr Rietkerk's contribution. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u225	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, I've been waiting for you, but you've been waiting for me. First of all, thank you for coming and for all the Members who are here on a Wednesday evening. That's special. I appreciate it. I have heard the questions of the members of your Chamber. I think it's good that we can have a good talk about that. I sent you a letter today and I hope I can contribute to clarity. Before Christmas, I sent your Chamber the draft royal decision in the framework of the suspension procedure. The concerns that live in the Chamber are about the procedural, legal side. The question I heard yesterday and today is whether the Chamber should indicate within four weeks whether the Chamber can agree to the royal decree. I understand the concerns. I have always stressed, also at the request of your Chamber, that I also attach great importance to careful treatment, and I attach great importance to the fact that the Chamber has time to do so. That is what I want and it is provided for in this procedure. This is also in response to all the questions that have been asked. I really want to be in the technique of the front of a KB. That does not happen very often, so I can also very well understand that we are discussing this. There are two components in the front suspension process: the start of the front and the four-week period and the course of the treatment process. First of all, let's get started. The pending procedure means that the draft of the Royal Decree, with the date of entry into force, will be submitted to both Chambers at the same time. That is the starting point, which is the same for both Chambers. The law stipulates that the cabinet must wait at least four weeks to submit the final KB to the King. That veil started on Thursday 17 December last year. So that's when the four weeks started running. I shall come straight to the first point. I think that's what this is all about in the little debate on order. That's the Christmas tree. That doesn't count. At least for three quarters. This means that the deadline will run longer, namely until 2 February. This is laid down in the regulatory guidelines. Three quarters of the front suspension period must be outside the recess. In that respect, you do not have to vote by 24:00 today. You may want to, but you don't have to until 24:00 today. You have time to determine the treatment process with each other. Then the course of the treatment process. As I indicated in my letter of 17 December, and indeed in today's, your Chamber itself has the control of this process. The deadline until 3 February, or until 2 February, is a minimum period for the cabinet. Mr Rietkerk said the same thing. That's not a fatal decision-making period for your Chamber. I fully understand if you take that time and also if you take more time than you do until 3 February. I wrote in the letter I sent you today that the cabinet will not submit the draft to the King until your Chamber has completed its proceedings and has agreed to do so. So you have the assurance that I will not take any steps until your Chamber has had a careful debate and has been able to make a proper assessment. I really think it is very important to do justice to this process in both chambers. I know how much this Chamber attaches to the careful treatment of this particular law. The front suspension procedure provides time and space for that careful handling. There are also examples of this under the same law, such as the process we have had with the basic AMvBs and the complementary decisions to the Environment Act. There was also a pending procedure. That's taken more time than four weeks. As far as I am concerned, starting the front, dealing with your questions will require me to answer them as soon as possible and thus to start the substantive debate in order to get there. I hope, of course, that your Chamber will respond with agreement at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u226	I took the Minister's letter. This concludes: "Your Chamber, however, determines when the procedure for the entry into force of the KB has been completed."' I heard the Minister say in her letter that it was concluded if the Chamber agreed. I may have missed a passage. It's very small print. Maybe other people noticed that, too. They are also getting smaller when you learn about the content. Where does it say that "and agreed"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u227	That's on page 1, under the statutory suspension procedure. That's where the law is quoted. The pending procedure for the entry into force of the KB is now governed by the second paragraph of Article 23.10 of the Act. That quote states: "If one of the Chambers of the States-General decides not to agree to this draft, no nomination shall be made." The sentence goes on, because that passage also outlines what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u228	That "destined" is therefore contained in the text of the legal provision. For a moment I thought I heard the Minister say that her commitment was to wait until the hearing was concluded and the Chamber had agreed to it. I don't read that in the letter. I read that there is a provision in which 'assent' is used, but that is the provision in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u229	Yes, that's the legal provision. I don't think I can tell you more powerful than that. I'd like to repeat it here. I am therefore saying that I will not send the KB to the King for ratification than after the debate in this Chamber has been concluded and this Chamber has agreed. Mr. Chairman. I think that this summary is my answer to the questions you have asked about the procedure in a general sense. You've put them in different ways. They've been drafted by a lot of members. This is what I said with the letter and what is also consistent with the line taken in the handling of the law and the debates that have taken place here about having a "go/no go" moment. This interpretation of the law and this way of dealing with this KB is to accommodate the cabinet and what we have agreed, what is laid down in the law and what I have always intended to do. There are a number of specific questions on the part of the Chamber which go a little deeper into some of the parts. What would happen if the House of Representatives did agree...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u230	It's about the details tonight. I want to hear very clearly from the Minister: 'if the Chamber has agreed to the KB'. What did the Chamber agree to? This was also the subject of the debate with Mr Nicolaï. "'Agreed with the KB'. Is that what the Minister means?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u231	Yes. That's what the law says. "'With the design KB''. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u232	For the sake of completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u233	Part of the debate was also the question of what would happen if the following turned out to be the case. Suppose the concern of the Chamber is so great and things come up in the coming months and that fatal deadline of 2022 is in jeopardy. Doesn't the cabinet say, in the context of what Mr Nicolaï said: yes, it is a commitment, but I promised the administrative bodies that it is 2022, so sorry, First Chamber, unfortunately, fatal deadline and I made a commitment? Will the Minister undertake that if, in the course of the follow-up proceedings in this Chamber, or in everything that has to do with the introduction, we encounter factors which prevent this Chamber from reaching agreement or which prevent the fatal deadline of 2022 from going through, the cabinet will say: no, because I want to give that Chamber its full right to properly assess its implementation on feasibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u234	You have that promise. I am going to go into the question of the deadline of 1 January 2022, because indeed, this entry into force KB proposes that that date should be chosen as the date of entry into force. If, due to circumstances, for example through the Chamber's proceedings here, this goes beyond that date, that date is not feasible. You cannot go on after that and then introduce it with retroactive effect as from 1 January. That's impossible. That date is of course hard in the KB, but it is still very far away. Again, there are no further restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u235	Is there, in the view of the Minister, a difference in legal position in the event of an agreement or non-acceptance within four weeks or outside four weeks before the Chamber or is the Minister actually saying that it is an open term? If we in the Chamber had the legal right to decide independently, you would not need a commitment. Does the Minister see a turning point there where the Court's own jurisdiction passes into a power linked to the final legal judgment of the Minister whose commitment it makes to ensure that it will deal with it in a certain way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u236	No. As I outlined in my letter, these four weeks are actually addressed to the cabinet. In those four weeks, the cabinet cannot submit the KB for ratification. After that, but in this case only after the First Chamber, and by the way also the Second Chamber, has agreed. In those four weeks it can't be done anyway, and then it requires consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u237	So that means here's what this is about. That was also at the heart of the legal argument we received yesterday in the opinion. If we decide within four weeks, because we feel that we are not going to get it and it is not ready and it is not the right time, if we decide tonight not to agree with the KB because it is within four weeks, then the cabinet will not be able to continue doing so at all, because there is no longer a prior KB. Does the Minister see that distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u238	I do not know whether there is any confusion between Mr Janssen and myself. The KB has been hung. That's in both rooms. It requires approval. As long as there is no such agreement, it shall remain suspended unless the Chamber decides not to agree. These are two ways of ending the veil: with consent or without consent. One case leads to entry into force and the other one does not. Then I can make another proposal to the Chamber after six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u239	On page 2 of the Minister's letter, she responds to the commitment that has been made. I read: this is a commitment that the cabinet will not take irreversible steps until the parliamentary debate is concluded. There is a real lack of the passage which the Minister now says we should read in it, namely that the cabinet will not allow entry into force if the majority of the Senate considers that this should not be done. That doesn't say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u240	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u241	That's one. The second connects a little bit, if I may ask that question immediately...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u242	You have already asked two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u243	That is in line with Mrs Moonen's point. Is the Minister prepared to say that she will follow the judgment of the First Chamber, whatever the circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u244	I was just quoting from page 1 of the letter, where that clasp-and-ready is. It's not just that it's in my letter and that I'm saying it here. I think it's very important that it's in the law, too. That is the law that this Chamber has also agreed to. It follows that what is stated on page 2, in the paragraph quoted by Mr Nicolaï, can go in two directions. I must know the opinion of this Chamber in order to know whether I can proceed with the entry into force on the date as I suggested it, or whether the Chamber has any objections. Then I can't go through with that and then I have to choose another route. Of course, that route can't be going on despite a lack of agreement from the Upper House. That is explicitly excluded by me and excluded by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u245	Mr Nicolaï, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u246	I ended with the story to try to be as practical as possible. I agree with the Minister that the legal text is quoted on page 1. She reads it in such a way that whatever's in there happens when those four weeks are over. There is uncertainty about that. As a Chamber, we want to be certain of the uncertainty. You could also be sure if the Minister said: the government is not going to ask a contradiction until the First Chamber has given its assent. That is item one, and I will keep my promise in all circumstances. That was the question about the possibility of new situations in which the Minister or the Government feels otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u247	I don't know how to say it any more clearly. Let me get this straight. We have a legally regulated procedure with a minimum period of time for the cabinet and not for the Chamber. The standard is addressed to the cabinet. It's not a decision-making period for your room. I've said and written this and it's probably in the law. I will not make a speech until the debate is concluded. I can't do a lecture if the First Chamber doesn't agree. So you determine the process, you determine the duration and you also determine the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u248	Mr. Nicolaï, that was your third interruption. A short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u249	The Minister forgets that this is an interpretation of the provision, that other interpretations are possible, and that we said yesterday that we are going for certain. We are not getting anywhere if the Minister refers all the time to the interpretation on page 1 of which others say: yes, but it is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u250	This is the Minister's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u251	So my question is: can the Minister think along with a practical solution or does the Minister maintain the interpretation of that provision, which others say is wrong? Because then we won't make any progress. My question is: can the Minister now meet us practically without references to an interpretation of the provision and make a number of commitments which we can use?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u252	I'm not giving you an interpretation, I swear. I'm literally quoting the law. On top of that, I have spoken out here, which I have also heard from Members of the Chamber. That was that I did not send the KB to the King for ratification than after the discussion in your Chamber was completed and the First Chamber agreed. I really don't think I can be any clearer than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u253	Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u254	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. Some more specific questions. What would happen if the House of Representatives did agree and the First Chamber did not agree? That was one of the questions. I think that from what I have just outlined it has become clear that no nomination will be made if one of the Chambers does not agree. In this respect, both Chambers have the possibility to say yes or no, but the no of either Chamber means that I cannot make a speech. It's also legally secured. In the four weeks we have, I think, exchanged enough. I'm gonna have to deal with that term. It was also about that date of 1 January 2022. Mr Rietkerk mentioned it, but so did Mrs Baay and others. I think that we should now be able to see that your Chamber simply takes the time it needs for its treatment and that we can get to decision-making in all kinds of ways, through written and oral consultation, with sufficient care. But indeed, the KB sees on 1 January 2022 as the end date. In legal terms, that is therefore the end date of this Royal Decree. This KB aims to regulate this and if that is not achieved, then that date will simply not be met and there should be a new KB. A number of members of your Chamber, Mr Janssen and others, have made comments on the motion in the House of Representatives. That motion was therefore filed in the Lower House and asked to put the KB before it. Of course, I gave my opinion on the motion in the Lower House. I said that the KB could be put forward, but I did, of course, realize that a very careful procedure could be followed with both Chambers. If you tell me "you should have made a reservation for the First Chamber in the Lower House," I say in my turn: I never do, because the First Chamber always follows the Second Chamber. In this case, you deal with the KB and the Lower House at the same time as the Lower House. The House of Representatives wanted the KB to be held. I can also imagine that from the side of the House of Representatives, which, unlike the First Chamber, is of course somewhat closer to an election recess. But once again, I did so in full awareness that your Chamber would not have to call for any great urgency in any way. Mr President, I would like to take a look at the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u255	The Minister was a little too quick to ignore it, because she did give a substantive assessment of the situation at the moment. That's why she said the time is right. In fact, she said in the House of Representatives: we have seen in the debate how far the legislation, the DSO and the implementation are going. That's why the Minister said the time was right. Does the Minister still believe, in the knowledge of all the questions of the First Chamber that she still had about the uncertainty with us, that the time was ripe for the First Chamber too? Does it therefore consider that the state of the legislation, the DSO and the implementation gave sufficient reason to pre-date the KB already?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u256	That, I think, is precisely the substantive debate that we are very keen to have with each other. Your Chamber has also raised substantive questions, even in mid-December. I intend to answer it this week and if possible tomorrow, and then it can start a substantive discussion. I believe that we are indeed well on the way to achieving 1 January with the DSO, with the consultations with the co-governments, including on the financial side, and with everything else that has been done. But I realize very well that your Chamber still has questions, that you still want information and that you also want to be convinced that it does. But my position will be that I want to take your Chamber as well as possible and I hope, of course, that when you have been able to ask all the questions, you will have received all the information and all the answers from me, including that conviction. If I say that I think so, then of course I am not saying that the First Chamber has the same conviction at the moment. But I hope that at the end of the journey that conviction will also be in your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u257	Just a few more minutes. I am not so much concerned with the end of the journey as with all the questions that we had tabled on behalf of the committee and which still need to be answered. I am concerned to establish that the Minister in the Lower House found that, in view of the state of the treatment, she felt that the time was right to strike the KB now. I regret that she has no longer respected the position of the First Chamber. She says: I don't do that in the Lower House, because it always comes in the Upper Chamber. The other way around, we get to hear the bill: yes, but the House of Representatives finds something else. So I think she could have done a little better in front of her, but that's just a little bit more of a statement, and that we might have had a different situation here in the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u258	Of course, Mr Janssen can have this view, but I am trying to explain that it is a logical follow-up to the treatment I had at that time in the House of Representatives and the detailed substantive examination of the state of affairs surrounding the implementation of the Environment Act. At the end of that debate, the House of Representatives asks me: if we now propose to take the follow-up step, namely to put forward the KB, which will see on the date of entry into force, do you think the time is right? I said yes to that. Why did I say yes to that? I hope, of course, to have that debate with this Chamber. Because in the cooperation we now have with the co-governments and with all the people working on the DSO, all these organizations are actually asking for certainty. Not the certainty that it will happen overnight, but the certainty that they can organise their processes and organizations in such a way that they can work towards that date. But again, this is, I think, actually part of the substantive debate that I hope to have with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u259	I'll go ahead. I mentioned three things in my speech. I would like to check with the Minister whether she agrees with me that these are the things that need to be clarified and agreed upon. The first is: there is a proven functioning DSO at local authorities. The second is that the financial arrangements between the local authorities and the Empire regarding the implementation of the system and the management and maintenance of the DSO have been made, but are also secured as far as the state contribution is concerned in the budgets of the Empire. Finally, the various implementing organisations..............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u260	I recognize Mrs Kluit's points. I think that these are actually exactly the points that the Chamber has also asked questions about, which we have also discussed in the past and which I in turn discuss with the co-governments and all the organisations involved. So when she says "'these are the points on which we from the First Chamber would like to have sufficient certainty', I recognize them and understand them very well. That is also, I think, the main points for the implementation of the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u261	I sum up the Minister's words as a commitment that the Minister will not send a decision to the King without these three points. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u262	What is true is that I need the agreement of your Chamber and that I think it is about these points. I can imagine your Chamber saying that it would like to have sufficient certainty on these points so that it could agree to the Minister's proposal. So if I interpret it that way, we're totally in agreement. Only you've asked me questions, and I'm going to answer them. That is what I wanted to say at the end of my term: I understand very well the substantive questions that Mrs Kluit asked, but which others asked too. I would therefore like to assure you that this response will reach you this week. Then you can judge, also on these points, to what extent you feel that this provides you with sufficient insight and certainty. That is what I am very happy to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u263	Mrs. Kluit, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u264	This is actually exactly why we're standing here tonight. Because you state on the one hand that you understand that these are the issues that live in the First Chamber. This is Chamberwide. I'm gonna look around and stand up if you don't agree. I'm standing here on behalf of the whole Chamber. These are the points we think: this is why you are not ready for the royal decision. You don't have to answer my questions anymore if you say here tonight: I'm gonna take care of this. Then we give our blessing, because then you will have our blessing. Then we'll just be ready for tonight, because then the commitment is hard and the angel is out. So I'm really challenging you. If we agree that these are the points that need to be properly regulated, just say that you will meet these three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u265	These are the points we need to settle. But I assume that your Chamber also attaches great importance to the fact that you have just received a substantive answer to the questions you asked in mid-December, which I think are particularly important on these points, with all the facts as they are today. Yes, you don't have that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u266	Mrs. Kluit, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u267	And I'm telling you, they're coming. I am very much looking forward to the debate that we will then have on the basis of that. Whether you have follow-up questions, again, and how you want to decorate them... I really can't imagine Mrs Kluit wanting to believe me here on my blue eyes if I still owe a whole bunch of answers to the First Chamber. But it's the points, and I want to convince you on those points, because I think it's possible. Yes, I have that conviction, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u268	Thank you for the commitment that these three points will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u269	I hear Mrs Kluit say sentences like 'I am standing here on behalf of the whole Chamber' and 'I am speaking on behalf of the whole Chamber'. I object to that. I believe that we are speaking here on behalf of a party or on our own behalf and cannot just say in a sentence, without prior agreement, that you speak on behalf of everyone. I'm gonna need you to write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u270	Mr. Chairman. I have actually discussed all the points of substance that have just been raised in the interrupting debate with Mrs Kluit. I hope, therefore, that after you have had the answers from me, we will be able to come back to that in a substantive debate. Mr Rietkerk concluded with a number of very concrete points. I hope he, too, says that he has now got some clarity on these points. This is actually about whether we agree on state law and have carefully organised a process with each other. In the end, of course, the Chamber itself decides on the procedures and the moments when things happen here. I have outlined, of course, to the President, that at least you have until 3 February to indicate that you want that substantive debate. As far as I am concerned, you have made this quite clear and I expect that we will have that substantive debate. You have the promise I have already made on several occasions. Therefore, there is no final deadline for the debate in the legal sense, other than that it will see on 1 January 2022. Your room is really about your own planning and your own arrangement of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u271	I'd like to go to the close, with what the Minister has just said. The Minister has emphasized the fact that the First Chamber is all about its own process. She has said this so many times that it is almost embarrassing, so to speak, so that is quite clear, a very clear guarantee. In addition, the Minister has also made a very clear reference to the interests of the local authorities. They're desperate for certainty. At the end, you also mentioned that that date of 1 January 2022 remains the target. How does that relate to each other? Local authorities must be clear in good time. What does that mean? Can you give an indication of that? How long will Parliament be allowed to do about that? We deal with that ourselves, but there is, of course, a tension in it. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u272	Mr Van Dijk actually invites me to express my hope. In fact, I believe that the co-governments and organisations that are going to work with this should know at some point what they are up to. They'd rather have that sooner than later. I understand. I think we should take that into account, too, but that does not bind the First Chamber in any way. But I do not think it is prudent in their direction to leave them in uncertainty until the very last moment. So my hope would be that, once again, without me being able to ask anything from the Senate that we could do that carefully with each other in this spring, so that with me or my successor, if there were any, you could indeed give that judgment somewhere in spring. And spring is really long, as far as I'm concerned; it starts now and it ends around the summer. Because, once again, I think it is very important to give all these organizations a definitive go/no go. We should not wait until the end of December of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u273	A clear answer. So you are indeed saying that, in view of the position of the local authorities until spring, we can make room for this substantive discussion and that we will then actually burden the local authorities with a problem and the date of 1 January will be at risk. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u274	No, I'm not saying that either. I say that it would be desirable to give them that clarity at a timely time. But, yes, you know our fellow governments, too. I'm talking to them all the time. They just keep working, too. That is the case now. I also always consult with them and, of course, I also give the signals they give to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u275	I note that the Minister is going to a conclusion, and I still need that one question. I understand now that she has said: I admit that I follow the judgment of the First Chamber. Our legal position now is that when we make that judgment, there is nothing else to be different from it. I would like to hear from the Minister: I follow that, under any circumstances. That would be one-on-one the same position we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u276	Let me get this straight. There's a law. This is about an entry into force KB. The law is clear on how this is done. The Chamber must agree to that or not. If the Chamber doesn't agree, the law will say what needs to be done. Then the Minister can come forward with a new proposal after six weeks. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u277	Does the Minister say yes or no to my question? That's not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u278	Mr Nicolaï says: you are following us. Yeah, that's right. Because I can't go on with this KB if this Chamber wouldn't agree to it and the law also spells out what can happen next. So I say yes to the first question and I outline the follow-up that is then provided for by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u279	Your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u280	So it's yes, just yes, with not a lot attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u281	Yes, but I do think it is important... I hope that Mr Nicolaï and I understand each other well. He's talking about the phase of this KB. On that thesis I say: yes, that's right. I really made that clear in all kinds of ways in my first term, I think. Well, that's a fact. Then there is always the question: what is the sequel? The law says something about that too. That is why I added that to my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u282	I'm gonna go back to one question. It was about the time of decision on 1 January 2022. This has been discussed with the local authorities. I think that's fine. After the summer, in September, could we get a letter here in the Prime Chamber of the Minister stating that the introduction is or is not ready and then what were the aspects? The reason is that, of course, the co-governments should also have time to prepare themselves when we do not introduce them. We want to be able to follow closely in the First Chamber the reasons for deciding whether or not to introduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u283	I hope that I have always taken the First Chamber well into account in the discussions I have had and the decisions I have taken together with the fellow governments. We have, of course, already decided to postpone it in consultation with the co-governments. That's what I've always brought the Chamber into. That consultation remains and I can, of course, keep the Chamber informed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u284	I hear this as a yes, this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u285	Yeah, sorry. Yes. I'll do it shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u286	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u287	Mr President, I was at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u288	Thank you. Is there a need on the side of the Chamber for a second term? That's the case. Then I can tell you that the draft KB was put forward on 17 December last and that, therefore, the veil will end tomorrow at midnight, that is Thursday midnight, if the recess is taken into account. Mr Rietkerk has requested a suspension of 20 or 25 minutes, I believe. I hear he says 15 minutes. Then I'll suspend for 15 minutes to 11:35.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u289	I understand that Mr Rietkerk wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the light of the Minister's replies and all the commitments, I propose that the deliberations and the votes be suspended until a time to be specified, by fixing the two committees on the basis of the Minister's letter to be received with answers to all our written questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u291	Thank you. For the record, the debates may be suspended; the votes may not be suspended but may be postponed. That's probably what you mean. And the date of resumption is not determined by the committees, but the committees can make a proposal to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With these changes and improvements, that is the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u293	Then it's valid. We shall then proceed to the vote immediately on this procedural proposal, in accordance with Rule 105 (3). Mr Janssen wishes to speak on this point, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u294	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make it clear whether we are going to vote on the Royal Decree this evening, as was intended yesterday and at least this evening. If that were to be included, I would like to point out that I would like to vote on the Royal Decree this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u295	I understand. Thank you. That therefore depends on the outcome of the vote on the procedural proposal that has just been made. Anybody want to talk about this? That is not the case. Then I suggest we sit down and vote on the order proposal. For the record, I would like to ask the groups which do not currently have an advance occupation to occupy the front seats, so that we do not get any misunderstandings. Mr Van Pareren can sit there. I note that the OSF is absent and that all the other groups are present. In the vote, pursuant to Rule 105 (3), Mr Rietkerk proposed that the debates we are currently in be suspended and that the votes scheduled for this evening be postponed to a time to be determined, for which the chairmen of the committees will make a proposal in my direction. Those Presidents will, of course, have that proposal supported by a majority of their committees. I would ask Members who are in favour of this order of business to stand. I note that the members of the groups of the SGP, the Van Pareren Group, the CDA, FvD, the VVD, GroenLinks, 50PLUS, the PvdA, D66 and the Christian Union have voted in favour of this order proposal and the members of the groups of the Otten Group, the SP, the PVV and the PvdD have voted against it, so that the order proposal has been accepted. I will now put that order proposal into effect immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u296	I'm closing the meeting.
