ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for an own initiative, 35397, Proposal for a law of Members Van den Bosch and Van der Molen amending the Municipal Act, the Province Act and the Public Authorities Act Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba in connection with the expiry of the compulsory presidency by council members, statesmen and island council members of council, state and island council committees. I would like to welcome the initiators, Mr Van den Bosch and Mr Van der Molen, who will defend their initiative here, and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, who is present on behalf of the government, to the First Chamber. As has already been mentioned, only the first term of office will take place today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her flexibility to fill in for this debate last minute. Mr. Chairman. What would you say if we replaced you, not through a deposition procedure or through elections, but functionally? What would you say if we replaced you with an external counsellor, an unelected consultant with the core competence of "technical chairman"? Would you like that? I think we can see from the look of our President that he is not so enthusiastic about this. And fellow Members of Parliament, would it not be a nice piece of customary work if we could also appoint Presidents in this House to replace the Committee Chairmen in this Chamber? President-in-Office of our committee meetings; do you think that is appropriate? Mr Dittrich seems enthusiastic. However, that is the proposal before us today. It does not apply only to this senate here, while being a senator is also a side function, but it applies to local authorities, i.e. municipalities, provinces and islands. The initiators, Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van den Bosch, welcome, gentlemen, will today, among other things, amend the Municipal Law. And they introduce the "pre-consultant" to hire for each meeting. There would be a need for that. Mr President, my group is not convinced of that. We have analysed this proposal in detail. Unfortunately, it fails on several counts. This amendment is based first of all on an incorrect problem analysis. This proposal therefore offers a less effective solution. And to excess disaster, it also leads to considerable disadvantages. Let me explain. I'll start with that problem analysis. It has been elaborated in the explanatory memorandum to this law. First of all, how serious can a problem be if the legal solution is a pre-consultant? Asking the question is actually answering the question. Such a problem is hard to take seriously. In their analysis, the initiators submit to the legislative proposal which can be relieved by the appointment of a pre-consultant small groups in small municipalities. But is that true? Because usually small groups in municipalities do not provide any or few presidents, just like in this house. And if they do deliver, then that's probably an experienced councilman who likes it, too. The initiators further argue that chairing is technical and procedural work. The time that council members spend on the Presidency would be at the expense of the 'people's representatives'. It would also not belong to the so-called "real council work." Our group does not believe that this is right for the many chairmen who lead weekly committee meetings with great commitment, art and passion in the country. A good president knows just like no other to involve residents in the parliament. Take speakers in a municipality, for example. On the contrary, as part of and on behalf of democracy, a good President welcomes them to the house of democracy. He gives a passionate explanation of how the debate works. He explains that he himself is also politically active, but he is chairing this evening. That is precisely of enormous added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u4	Surely the bill does not impose an obligation on local democracy to attract a President from outside? That's, when we're talking about local democracy, isn't it just to the municipal councils? You don't have to, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u5	Yeah, that's right. It's customization, it's a choice. On the other hand, however, the democratic legitimacy of the presidency is also decreasing, and I shall come back to that. We think that's a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u6	I would deny that. I think you can also insist that the democratic legitimacy of those who are or remain presidents, if they are city council members, will increase if there are also Presidents from outside who are technical chairman of a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u7	Mr Dittrich and I differ on that. We believe that, given the democratic legitimacy of a chair in this house, in the Lower House, in provinces and in municipalities, it is very important that this is from the middle of the elected parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u8	Mr Dittrich, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u9	My final question: the VNG writes to us that they support this bill, because it is in the interests of particularly smaller municipalities. Surely we must be able to have confidence in local democracy here in The Hague? Why would we be so suspicious?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u10	Finally, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u11	I'm not suspicious at all. On the contrary, I find this proposal suspicious of all those Presidents who have been democratically elected and who preside over all these meetings every week, with a great deal of passion and commitment. Let us not be suspicious about that, but let us support them. When it comes to the procedural nature of the work, the solution lies in good support, if it is very procedural. Local authorities can also make choices about how they support presidents. I wish the Presidents in this country such excellent support as we have here in this Chamber from the Registry and the official staff. They do a good job, and as a senate, we choose good people too. One more important point. How big is this problem? Because municipal councils are already flexible, they can already appoint external presidents. There are many possibilities for organising political meetings as a city council in a free form. Then it is called an orientation meeting, a council forum, a theme evening. They may not have legal status, but they can be filled out any way they want, including day presidents from outside the board. And that's happening all over the country. Are there no problems at all? Yes, I do. The initiators rightly point out that municipalities have been given many tasks in recent years: more work. And that is definitely something to think about in detail. We will soon do the same in a thematic debate in this Chamber. Because this challenge requires effective and substantial solutions, more than this proposal. Then we really have to think about rethinking the division of labour within the house of Thorbecke, between the Empire and local authorities, or about the number of council seats per city council. Is that number still going to work? This was previously extended after the Law on Dualisation in 2002. Mr. Chairman. My group therefore does not share the problem analysis of the initiators. We also see some disadvantages arising from this proposal. Firstly, we are bureaucratising democracy. By spending the chairing of committee meetings on consultants, we are hollowing out a substantial part of the political craft, of which presiding is part, and thus also the involvement. My group does not want that. Secondly, it also opens the door to a schnabbel circuit for former politicians working as president. A lucrative side job for what we believe is an essential part of the democratically elected political business. I have one more question for the initiators, or perhaps the Secretary of State. Why is it not possible for the mayor to chair committee meetings in addition to council meetings? You can't do that right now. In fact, in 2015, when the mayor of Hoogezand-Sappemeer, Mr Peter de Jonge, did, he even got a touch of Minister Plasterk at the time. In conclusion. The opinion of our group is clear: we believe it is important that the chairmen of formal committees should also be democratically legitimised, i.e. elected by the inhabitants of the municipality and other bodies, and hence statesman, councilor or island council member. We are in favour of an involved decentralised administrative layer that is actively trying to bring politics closer to its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I call Mr Koole, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to the initiators of this bill. I appreciate the initiativers who have invested the necessary preparation time in this. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for her quick availability to be here. This proposal makes it possible to open up the chair of a council committee to a non-Council member. This also applies mutatis mutandis to committees of the Provincial States or of an island council. The question of whether it is desirable for a non-Council member to chair a council committee can be disputed with reason. The Council of State has said that this can only be done when it comes to the technical chairing of a committee. But in answers to written questions, the initiators point out that the term "technical" may not be necessary, because a chairman must always play a neutral, independent role and be above the parties. At the same time, we know that the seemingly technical, procedural nature of chairing can sometimes well conceal political considerations and consequences. Mr President, I will not ask you whether you agree with this. The main reason why the initiators come up with this bill is to give room for a certain relief from the workload of council members, they write in response to questions. This touches on a much broader discussion on the issue of the overload of council members. This brings me to the following questions to the initiators. Do they not agree with the members of the Labour Party that the possibility of an external chairman of a council committee was born out of need? If the problem of the overload of council members were not to arise, would they have come up with this proposal? Mr. Chairman. In response to questions from my group, the government agrees with the importance of an integrated approach to council work. The substantial growth of tasks and responsibilities of municipalities requires this. That's why the government is working on an agenda reinforcement position city councils. My question to the initiators is: why did they not wait until that agenda arrived, so that the proposal can be considered in conjunction with other measures? Why has this element already been highlighted? As a follow-up, I would like to ask the government: why does the legislative proposal before us fit within the lines set out in the agenda I mentioned, as the government has also replied? This Chamber did receive progress letters in November on supporting local authorities and on the Democracy in Action programme. But we do not know that agenda, and yet we are supposed to be able to assess whether this bill fits into that agenda. Hence our group's question to the government to explain why this proposal would fit within the agenda strengthening position of municipal councils. When can this Chamber see that agenda? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u14	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u15	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators for bringing their proposal to this Chamber. At the same time it is also a bit Groundhog Day. The same proposal was voted off by the First Chamber two years ago, together with the extension of the exemption for the compulsory residence of aldermen and delegates. We had a clear objection to both proposals: it creates the opportunity for a circuit of technocratic professional directors and presidents. The present proposal also opens up the possibility for such a travelling circus of professional presidents, who in several municipalities as so-called "technical chairman" can show their tricks. The proposers themselves also give an example of an experienced former council member returning as committee chairman. Does this not make the committee chairman an extension of the plush? The applicants state in the reply that they cannot rule out the effect of the creation of a circuit of Presidents travelling around. That is why I have to ask why they consider the possibility of this effect to be desirable at all and why no measures have been taken in their own initiative law to rule this out. The proposers claim that chairing a committee is not part of the core business of council membership. As far as PVV is concerned, this task is indeed part of the work of representatives of the people, by acting as primus inter pares, first among equals. We should not leave this to unelected outsiders. As a Second and First Chamber, we don't leave the chairing of our committees to externals, do we? That shouldn't be different in a decentralised way. The government also stated earlier on Article 82 (4) of the Municipal Act: "The fact that council committees do intrinsically consultative work leads, in the opinion of the government, to the fact that the chairing of a committee is also in the hands of a council member." Can the government explain why the chair of a committee would no longer be an intrinsic council? In addition, the authors also look at the committee Presidency by saying that it is purely a technical Presidency which is intended only to guide the meeting. This immediately raises the question of what is "technical" and how to determine what "good jobs" are. That is quite an interpretation, which in itself can quickly become political. As far as the so-called 'technical Presidency' is concerned, in practice this often involves far more than just chairing the sitting itself. I'll give you an example from my personal experience. In the Provincial States of Noord-Brabant, I was the committee chairman of the then Committee on Culture and Society from 2011 to 2015. In addition to chairing the meeting, this also meant a procedural task, for example watching with the Registrar the quality of the documents. If a piece in terms of qualitative design was insufficient to submit it to the committee, the committee chairman could decide to send it back to GS. The committee chairman took part in a quarterly meeting with the delegates and the official summit on the planning and progress of state proposals, dossiers and the settlement of motions and commitments. In addition, there was a committee chairman's meeting to coordinate with the other committee chairmen and a consultation between the committee chairmen and the presidency. A draft agenda was submitted to the committee chairman. He was able to control that in terms of planning. The draft minutes were also submitted to the committee chairman for inspection before they were presented to the committee. All this extends far beyond merely technical chairing. For these procedural aspects of the committee presidency, the legislative proposal did not regulate anything. In addition, a committee chairman sometimes acts as a point of contact or the face of a committee: the reception of speakers, the receipt of reports from, for example, a chamber of account, a speech at a special occasion, the media are to be heard on behalf of the committee, contact point for committee work visits and sometimes represent the committee at certain ceremonies, such as commemorations. If the committee presidency is to be filled in in this way, then the role of a popular representative elected by citizens, not an external person, will also be appropriate. The initiators indicate that the choice is to be made by the Council or the States. But as a legislator, you must also ask whether there should be room at all for such important procedural tasks and duties to be performed by non-elected persons. We're talking about people's representatives for a reason. That is why the question to the authors how they see these procedural and representative tasks of the committee chairmen in relation to their definition of the technical Presidency. In addition, in meeting models, the committee chairman often has a role that is procedural in nature. Many municipalities and provinces now use a so-called BOB model: imaging, judgment and decision-making. The chairman of the committee must monitor the distinction between these phases. In addition, there may be so-called A, B and C documents, or hammer pieces, short discussion papers in case of motions and amendments, and extensive discussion papers for the council or state meeting. A committee has to deliver an opinion on the status of these documents and the committee chairman has the task of obtaining such advice. The chairman of the committee often asks about the motivation of the status: whether a subject is ready for decision-making, what motions are still expected and on which points political groups would like to come back to the council or state meeting. Then the role of the President at such a time is not merely technical in terms of managing a meeting, but also steering the process. In addition, a committee chairman is also expected to summarise and conclude the debate in committee. Can the authors explain how their view of the technical Presidency relates to the role of the President in such models of meetings and why they consider it desirable to be able to leave these guiding tasks unelected in the democratic process? The VNG also indicated in the consultation that the role of external presidents in agenda committees as regards the political assignment of council committees should be a subject of further elaboration. Can the proposers indicate what they have done with this recommendation from the VNG? The UNG also indicated that the rules on confidentiality should be strictly regulated. The Council of State is also stressing this. That is not the case with this bill. It is still possible for committee chairmen to impose secrecy. This proposal also allows the external committee chairmen to do the same. The authors refer to a future legislative proposal on this subject, but that is not yet there. Can the initiators make it clear how to close the secrecy and what secrecy means for the committee chairman himself, now that it cannot be addressed as a council member? What are the consequences of violating confidentiality by an external chairman? How can we maintain it? I'd like a response. The VNG previously indicated that Article 15 of the Municipal Law or Law. the Province Act should be declared applicable to external presidents in accordance with the applicable law. The proposers have not chosen to attach Article 15 on the acts prohibited from council members to this bill. Can the initiators indicate why not, and what this means for the risks of possible integrity violations by external presidents? In the consultation, the BES Islands indicated that the appearance of conflicts of interest should be avoided as far as possible because of the small scale of the islands. Can the applicants indicate to what extent they have taken this into account? The proposers have only linked Article 13 of the Municipal Act to this bill; the incompatible functions. But there is no link with other important articles in this context, such as Article 10 of the Municipal Act on the designation of council members. Can the initiators indicate whether they consider it desirable, for example, for a minor or a non-Dutch person to be appointed committee chairman? Nor is Article 12 of the Municipal Law mandatory. There is therefore no statutory public understanding of the secondary functions of an external committee chairman. This does not help to ensure transparency and integrity. Can the applicants state why this is not required by law? Can the proposers indicate how it is possible to prevent a committee chairman from being involved at the same time in a subsidised institution that a committee is discussing? I'd like a clear response. The same applies to Article 14 of the Municipal Law. The oath or promise is not now legally mandatory for external presidents. Why not? Does this situation not create an unequal position vis-à-vis elected council members? Furthermore, the municipality of Wijdemen had recently started experimenting on its own with external committee chairmen, because they thought this was already legally possible. Only after consultation of the province of Noord-Holland have they stopped this experiment. Can the proposers explain why they put so much trust in municipalities in the appointment of external presidents when simply applying and enforcing existing laws and regulations is too much trouble? Why then let go of the legal requirements of the Municipal Act so easily when it comes to external presidents? Mr. Chairman. In the reply, the proposers argue that this bill should be a relief for the task of members of the council and states. They refer, among other things, to the increased tasks of decentralisation, such as the Environment Act and the Regional Energy Strategy. As far as the latter is concerned, it would have been more logical not to bother local authorities at all with this administrative climate trap. On the contrary, the Environment Act provides for more tasks and powers to be assigned to the colleges. So this law wouldn't have to be necessary for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u16	I'll be a little less critical than the PVV, but I understand a lot of your questions. One question I did not understand, namely: can non-Dutch be chairman of a committee? You can do that now, can't you? Municipal council members do not have to be Dutch. So you're defending that city council members should be president, which implies that you are defending that at the moment non-Dutch may be chairman of a committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u17	This proposal is also about provincial states. So that's where it's touching, too, but there are more examples. It's about naming. The law now lays down that a person wishing to become a council member or a member of a state must meet certain requirements. This includes minority. In theory, a newborn baby can become committee chairman. That's how absurd it could be if you didn't frame this bill further. That's not happening right now. Anyone can now be appointed committee chairman, in a manner of speaking, whether it is a Dutchman or not. Even if he is not registered in the municipality, because that is, of course, a requirement to become a council member. So someone who lives in Africa, so to speak, can become committee chairman, or in Belgium, just across the border or in Germany. It creates far too many opportunities in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u18	I agree with you on many points, but I think it went wrong again when living across the border in Belgium. You can even be a Member of Parliament, and thus be President of the Upper House, while you live in Belgium. We have a colleague for whom that is in any case true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u19	That is true, but that is a very different regulation from that of the municipalities and the provinces. Mr. Chairman. It is also stated that it would be the wish of council members to appoint non-Council members as president. Can the proposers indicate what they're basing that on? To what extent are council members directly questioned about this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, some of the objections that we, as a PVV Group, have to make to this proposal. In any case, it is undesirable that an unelected external should be able to silence, refuse or even remove a democratically elected representative of the people from the Chamber. With this bill, it will also be possible to appoint members of the Committee as chairman. This is in flagrant conflict with the intention of appointing citizens, which is to give smaller groups the opportunity to participate fully in a committee system. The role of President does not fit in with that. There is also the cost aspect. The appointment of external presidents leads to additional costs. Council members do it with their flat-rate remuneration. That money, especially in times of the corona crisis, we can spend much more efficiently than on bureaucracy and the development of the schnapple carousel. The PVV Group will therefore not support this bill. So far, Chairman, in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u21	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Registrar of the Committee on the Interior for making it possible for me to thank the Secretary of State for being present at this debate and for being able to meet on this matter today. Of course I thank the Dutch MPs Van den Bosch and Van der Molen and those who supported them. It is always a great deal to write an initiative proposal, that is to go through the Lower House and to defend it here in the Upper House. This requires vision and perseverance. So nice. Mr. Chairman. When I read the pieces, I immediately remembered my time at the district council in Amsterdam. In 1990 I was group chairman in Amsterdam-Zuid, an area with more than 100,000 inhabitants. After the elections, college negotiations followed. The political groups then decided to ask the PvdA's Dick Benschop, who later rose to a large extent as Secretary of State for European Affairs and Director of Shell Netherlands, as a formattor. Weeks, or maybe months, I don't remember exactly following negotiations. Under his expert leadership, a coalition agreement was concluded. We then set up committees and everyone was actually very enthusiastic about Mr Benschop. It was said: let Benschop chair an important committee for spatial planning. And then all of a sudden, he couldn't because he wasn't a city councilman. I've always thought that was really weird. I believe that the initiators have raised exactly that point with their legislative proposal. They solved that problem. The Municipal Councils, Provincial States and the Island Councils may decide to appoint a President from outside. It's not an obligation; I said it in an interruption. We trust the local, provincial and island authorities to make tailor-made work possible. In any case, it can reduce the workload of the members of, in particular, small groups and smaller municipalities. They will then be able to focus more on the content of the work so that the president can manage the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u22	Mr Dittrich has just interrupted me with the remark: it is about customization; we are offering the choice. I opened by suggesting that we could appoint an external chairman here. Does this mean that you would be in favour of us deciding here in the Senate to allow external Presidents to chair?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u23	I'm not gonna let you draw me out of the tent. This bill is about municipal councils, about provincial states and about the three islands. It's not about the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u24	No, that's true, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u26	That's not what this is about. However, we can make it wider, because these are also democratic bodies. Why should we offer this possibility at a decentralised level, such as: we know what is good for you when we do not do it ourselves? That's a nice equation, isn't it? They are also looking at this debate and will say: why not do it themselves? So that's what you can give your opinion on, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u27	I've always learned in politics never to answer questions like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u28	Finally, Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u29	We are opposed to the appointment of external Presidents in this House, but I understand that Mr Dittrich leaves that in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u30	Mr Dittrich concentrates on the legislative proposal before us. I also believe that this is my task as a Member of Parliament. I would like to say that in comparison with 1990 I began by saying that the complexity of the council's work has increased enormously. Think, for example, of the decentralisations. Mr Van der Linden spoke about it himself. We are going to talk about this in a debate on the subject. But it is of course important to see that the complexity of the council's work has increased enormously. That is why the Minister announced that he would come forward with a Agenda strengthening position for municipal councils. The aim is to strengthen the council so that council members can adequately fulfil their controlling, frameworking and grass-roots roles, now and in the future. We believe that this bill fits in with that line. So we can work with complete confidence with this bill, waiting for what the government is going to come up with, because we believe that tailor-made work is the key. Before the interruption takes place, I would like to say that perhaps the one island council, for example Bonaire, really wants someone from outside to chair an island council meeting or committee meeting, but perhaps not Saint Eustatius or Saba. We think that space should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u31	Mr Dittrich talked about the usefulness of this bill, also in the light of the enormous workload on council members and their workload. He also talks about the government's forthcoming agenda and says that this bill would fit into that forthcoming agenda to strengthen the city council. I would also like to ask Mr Dittrich the question that I have also asked the initiators: would it not have been better to discuss this proposal in the light of the overall approach to the problem of the enormous workload on council members which he has also endorsed? There are many aspects to it. Now one aspect is highlighted. That is what we are already recording, and that is what we are committed to when we are going to have the debate on the agenda that is being drawn up by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u32	I understand Mr Koole's point. I would like to say that the better sometimes is the enemy of the good. I think that this is a rather limited legislative proposal in terms of scope and that it is very easy to fit into the larger picture that is yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u33	Okay. I understand that Mr Dittrich says that at least you already have this in you and that we will discuss other adjustments later. Do I also understand that in a forthcoming debate the D66 Group will use this problem of the severity of council membership very much to really take steps to enable council members to carry out their democratic tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u34	The answer is yes. Mr. Chairman. My conclusion is that we are sympathetic to this bill. Of course, we await the response of the initiators and the government, but we are sympathetic to the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Van der Burg, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u36	Mr. Chairman. To begin with, of course, compliment the two initiators. It's a lot of work. Although it is nice for both gentlemen that we can discuss this today, I can imagine that it is even better for one of the two that it is happening now and not in a few weeks' time. However, we are actually holding this debate in the wrong order, but that is obviously not a reproach to the initiators. On 11 May, we will have a debate on the consequences of decentralisation. As far as I am concerned, we are not talking so much about the Youth Act and what the decentralisations mean for youth care or care in relation to the Wmo, but also about the increase in decentralisation that has meant for municipal work. In this sense, it would be much more purer to have a debate with each other both on the other side and here at first, in which we consider whether the current council work still relates to the facilities that we offer to city council members. I would just like to say to Mr Van Hattem that of course he is right: what I am saying now also applies to Provincial States, albeit less when it comes to decentralisation. It therefore applies to all three, but in this particular case to the municipal councils. If the answer to that question is no, what means can we use to improve the council's work or work? lighten up? Then this could be an instrument used for this purpose. That would actually be the pure order. But, as Mr Dittrich has just said, the better sometimes is the enemy or the competitor of good or at least fights with good, which is also the case here. Now it is true that I understand the criticism voiced by many opponents here today, I suppose, Mr Van Hattem, or the critical notes that come from, for example, the PvdA Group. Because, of course, we have agreed on a democratic system in which in this Chamber there is the VVD as a large group with twelve members and the OSF is on its own. That means you have to work harder if you're from the OSF. Then you should have gotten more votes; that's pretty much the idea of democracy. So you want to have more colleagues: better story, better campaign, more voters. A little too unsophisticatedly summarized, that is the thought behind it. By adding people, whether you call that duo council members, citizens' council members or independent presidents, you disturb a bit of that balance that has been determined by the voter. At the same time, there is also a nuance to this. This story, of course, plays stronger at national level than at local level, and at local level there is also a difference with the big cities where you are forty-five and sometimes the small groups are bigger than what you would call large groups in this Chamber. So that's already a distinction you can make. We also see a great deal of action in the country, apart from the proposal now before us, which has been taken to increase the decision-making group. I have just mentioned the example of civil council members and duo council members, in short, people who do not have the right to vote in the council and who are often not allowed to speak in the council, but who are members of a committee on behalf of a party and who are therefore able to take on board the preparation of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u37	I heard Mr van der Burg say a bit back, in my words, that it is a bit at odds with democracy if you are going to get someone from outside. But another nuance, which I haven't heard from you yet, is that this is democracy in optima forma. A bill is being tabled. This is dealt with in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. We're getting government advice. We're all gonna talk about it and we're gonna vote on it. That is also democracy and that democracy can adapt, renew, rejuvenate or broaden. That's what happens today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u38	Oh, no misunderstanding, there was no criticism whatsoever of the democratic nature of these two gentlemen's proposal. By the way, Mr Dittrich, it is not the case that democratically elected legislation or regulation automatically strengthens democracy. With your international experience, you certainly have plenty of examples in which democracy has been undermined by very democratic means. But that's something for another discussion. I'm already old enough to have experienced the monism. During monism, aldermen often presided over committee meetings. We thought that was a little too much of the good, because we said: technical Presidency, while you are also responsible for the content of the proposals that are before us, that is complicated. And that, as I say immediately to Mr Van der Linden, is of course the big difference with, for example, a First Chamber. The chairman of the First Chamber is not also spokesperson in all kinds of fields, let alone minister or secretary of state to make it compare with the aldermen. So the President has been exempted by us not to engage in politics but only in the process. Our committee chairmen, with all due respect to them, do not, of course, hold substantive debates but meetings which usually last 15 minutes to a maximum of half an hour and are more involved in the process. In that sense, I also understand the criticism of some people who say: you can indeed influence the debate as a technical chairman. Let me be honest: the times when I was President or even stronger, the times when I am President I do influence agendas, by setting the order of the agenda. You can use that to steer. Have a debate on art and culture subsidies right after you've stopped to think about the homeless and the homeless. Then you are lagging behind after the people who have lived on the streets have first been brought up. You can control the number of times you allow interruptions. In short, you can play as technical chairman, so I understand the critical comments. I also have questions for the initiators about the requirements. I thought Mr. Van Hattem was a bit crazy, I'd almost say, but theoretically he's right on a number of points. Shouldn't there be requirements? Then you can say: we leave that to the city council. But, yes, there are municipal councils that, in my view, take very strange positions. For example, in my own city people want to reduce the right to vote to 16 years, which is what I really think of the club, because your prefontal lobe is only mature with 23 years. We can stop that from happening here. But in your proposal you could go to 16 or worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u39	I didn't quite understand Mr Van der Burg. He referred to critical comments made by some speakers on this bill, which in fact, apart from Mr Dittrich, seem to be against it, and then began a whole speech which, even now, makes me doubt whether we still need external committee chairmen. Because if I hear how politically that is done by the VVD, you'd almost be in favour of this bill. So what criticism does Mr Van der Burg support of the initiators? Those of you who say: your criticism of presiding as I do, is it right? Or the criticism of people who say: you must have elected representatives as president?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u40	So I am also struggling with this proposal, because I see the advantages, I see the stool for city council members. Because large parties are in favour of small parties. In large municipal councils it is easier than in small municipal councils. So in that sense, I am sympathetic to the proposal, because it can really help small municipal councils and small groups. Because I see the VNG says this is a good idea. Because I see how hard city council members work; you yourself have the necessary experience. So in that sense, I am sympathetic to the proposals. But I understand that there is criticism, and so I present it in this Chamber of reflection, not only to us but also to the initiators and through the initiators, of course, always through the chairman of the cabinet, because I think this is a debate on which we will form our opinion and then vote on it next week or the week. I think that is the idea behind the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u41	I notice that Mr Van der Burg is now suddenly making it very broad, while my question was rather specific. I have made a speech, and some others too: an elected representative of the people must also rule the office of President, who can do so well over the parties. Mr Van der Burg has just been explaining: if I am the chairman, then I am making a huge political mess of it. Is this bill, in Mr Van der Burg's view, intended to protect committees from presidents like himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u42	Yes, that is a justified last sentence, although the other Presidents should not make it more virgin and decent than they sometimes are in reality. This proposal does not change that, because in my opinion city council member Van der Linden is comparable to municipal council member Van der Burg, but would also be comparable to technical chairman Van der Linden or technical chairman Van der Burg. I believe that there can always be an element in which you and I could steer in our role as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u43	Thank you. Mr. Van der Linden, third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u44	Yes, at that last point you can say: the initiators did not do that. The Presidency is, by definition, very political if you show it by a representative of the people, so perhaps an external chairman will remove it. But I do not hear that argument mentioning the initiators. Do you think that chairing is, by definition, political? That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u45	Mr. Van der Burg, finally, and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u46	No, I don't. I also disagree with the initiators when they say that they did so in the House of Representatives that Presidency is not a core business of municipal work. I think so. However, I understand that if you have a lot of core business, you make choices. I understand that larger groups in larger councils have it easier than smaller groups in smaller councils. That is why I do feel sympathy, but I am actually saying to the initiators: go seriously into the story of Van der Linden and Van Hattem, and of course to that of Mr Crone who I do not want to fail because they do have points that I am sensitive to. I think that is the purpose of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u47	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u48	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Why didn't you set requirements, for example the requirement that it should only be limited to "I call it "the combination of a duo council member and a citizen's council member? In short, to people who are sworn in by and continue to participate in the political process, because they are associated with one of the elected groups. At least you will avoid what Mr van der Linden said, namely that there is a circus of wandering trade presidents. I would like to receive a response from the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u49	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u50	I would like to thank Mr van der Burg for his comments. I do have a question. I think it is important to have a chairman who can also stand his man or wife on the basis of democratic legitimacy. Suppose a situation in a council committee gets very tense, that an alderman and committee members really go to each other's lives in the discussion and that an alderman is going to call on the committee chairman to cut down council members and eventually even walk out of the Chamber. Isn't it desirable that you have a committee chairman sitting there as an elected councilman, who really has a mandate and not as an external one, who is a little vulnerable to say to such an alderman "Mr. Alderman, go back into your loft, because you don't have a councilman to cut off"? Is it not important in such a situation to have someone with a mandate? Does the VVD group also consider this consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u51	Frankly, less, because I think that if a chairman simply doesn't function, dysfunction or otherwise can't handle the work, it's up to the council to say goodbye to that chairman. On the contrary, I can imagine that this would be easier for an external chairman than for someone with whom you also have to take account of the Council's relations. This is still separate from the fact that you can of course only fire him as chairman and not as a councilman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u52	Then you get to the fragile point where you say 'we have to say goodbye to a chairman' and that is easier with an external chairman. On the contrary, it is important that a chairman is well-equipped and firmly in his shoes. As a mandated representative of the people, you stand firmer than an external, who nevertheless depends on a majority in a council or in the States and actually has a very limited mandate. A directly elected representative of the people simply has a much stronger mandate and will rather be able to say to an alderman or to other council members: boys, we are not going to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u53	So your question is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u54	Isn't it just intrinsically undermining to appoint an outsider?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u55	No, I don't think so. At the moment this chairman loses the support of 38 members of the First Chamber, he becomes once again a member of the First Chamber who sits there. The only difference is that if it were an external chairman, he would no longer be allowed to sit in this Chamber. But this chairman also needs the support of at least half plus one in this Chamber. I don't see any difference in that, so I disagree with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u56	Mr Van Hattem, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u57	Then I think we have a problem when an external is appointed, because a certain relationship of authority may then arise with someone appointed by a council or by States and someone who is chairing a committee as a fellow member of that council or States. That is a fundamentally different role from someone who is put there as... The word "consultant" has just been used, but you might as well consider it a kind of official. That makes such a position much more vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u58	Finally. A brief answer, Mr. Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u59	A mayor, as an example, is not an elected representative either, but has been selected by the council from applicants and then placed there. It has powers that go far beyond the Presidency of the Council in this case. That is a system that works very well. I think municipal councils are also able to choose excellent people who chair a committee, and if it doesn't work, you'll drop that chairman off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u60	Mr Van der Burg was struggling with the issue, he said, and wondered whether there should be some more to be said about the requirements of such an external chairman. He said at some point that you should think about limiting the pool from which you could recruit to people who are already members of the duo council. I can imagine. Is he saying that that should indeed apply? Does he call on the initiators to include this in the law somehow? Or is it more of a general call to local administrators to limit it to people who are actually already involved in the council work? A follow-up question is this. If it is limited to, say, duoraad members, could people like Dick Benschop, who was a reformer, not become external chairman in Amsterdam-Zuid? Or was he also a duo council member at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u61	The example of Dick Benschop has now been solved, because the districts are no longer covered by the legislation. So now you can appoint everyone as president. That problem has been solved, but that is a slightly too easy answer to your question. I'm looking into this debate. That is what I think is at the heart of debates: that we do not just read texts, do a second term and then vote as we agreed in the group last week. So I am looking, because I find your criticism and the criticisms of others serious. I would therefore like to hear the input from the initiators and, of course, from the cabinet next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u62	I understand from this that Mr Van der Burg calls on the initiators to at least call for the appointment of external presidents at local level... This only makes it possible. But does he now call on that, if it were to happen, only a group of people who already have to deal with the existing council work would be recruited?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u63	This is not the case in the current own-initiative proposal. That is, of course, the debate that should have been held on the other side, because it could have been added by means of an amendment, if that were thought of, but that did not happen there. In fact, therefore, you and I are faced with the question of whether we are voting for or against the proposal next week or the following week. This is partly determined by the debate and the answers we receive from the initiators and the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u64	Mr Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u65	I get that. We have no right of amendment. That is why I am not asking you to amend it, but to have the initiators make an appeal, if only for parliamentary history, for people who, when this law is adopted, decide at local level to call an external chairman to say: yes, but it is really intended that this should be done from a group of people who are already involved in some way in the council work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u66	Finally, Mr. Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u67	Mr President, I ask you a question, but it is rhetorical. Would you mind if I replied to Mr Koole's question in the second term? Then I have also heard the answer from the initiators and the cabinet. I think Mr Koole's question is relevant, but I need the input of cabinet and initiators to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u68	Let's take a look at that. Thank you. I call Mr Rombouts, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u69	Mr. Chairman. In his maiden speech here on the other side of the debate on this initiative bill, CDA-Second MP Julius Terpstra gave the example of the monk Valentijn, whose seemingly humble work in the monastery garden seemed to give him little satisfaction, until it dawned on him that his work was greatly appreciated by his fellow brothers. Monk Valentine did nothing to help his community. The chairing of a council committee is perhaps also such a humble task. It is not insignificant for the proper functioning of local and provincial democracy. Mr. Chairman. On this side of the Binnenhof, allow me to refer to the monastery life, one of the vows of the Benedictine Order, when considering the proposal by Mr Van den Bosch and Mr Van der Molen. Benedictines, members of a monastery established in the fifth century, take, among other things, the vow of the stable loci, of the locality. That vow has a double meaning: a literal, namely bondage to the place you have joined, but also the promise to take responsibility for tasks in the community you are a part of. We may be able to include both aspects of the initiative proposal today. Being a council member, State member or island council member is a nice way of taking responsibility for the local community. At the same time, it's time-consuming. Research shows that council members work for an average of 17 hours to 25 hours a week in the larger cities. This great time spent was the reason why the proposal for an own-initiative opinion was submitted. With this bill, the initiators create the possibility for council, state and island council committees to be presided over by persons who are not members of the city council, provincial states or the island council. They do so by abolishing the relevant requirement by means of three applicable organic laws. Mr. Chairman. It may have been said earlier this afternoon, but this proposal is not without a history. In 2002, the Local Government Dualisation Act was introduced and Article 82 of the Municipal Act came into force. That article provides that the City Council may set up council committees. A council committee is composed of council members, but non-Council members may also be members of it. In most cases, these are persons who are also on the list of candidates of a political party, but who have not been elected. The chairman has to be. According to the initiators, this last point has become tense over time. They, and with them the previous cabinet, had to find more room for local customization. In recent years, the municipalities known as the municipalities have been given a lot of tasks, with all the consequences for the council members' time span. This is true for all the municipalities, but it has mainly gotten cramped in smaller municipalities and more specifically in smaller groups. It began with the motion of the House of Representatives Koopmans, Van der Molen, Jetten and Van der Graaf, which called on the government to allow non-Council members to chair council committees. This prompted the government at the time to submit a letter of amendment to the legislative proposal Amendment of the Municipal Act and the Province Act (34807). The aim was to extend the powers of municipal councils and provincial states in granting exemption from the requirement of residence for aldermen and delegates. It was proposed to delete Article 82 (4) of the Municipal Act. We know the outcome: draft law 34807 was rejected by this Chamber because a majority opposed the original subject of this bill, namely the extension of the exemption from the requirement of residence. Since the bill did not reach the final stage in the First Chamber, the proposers are now seeking to ensure that a non-Council member or non-Member may chair a committee. A special kind of novelle, said GroenLinks spokesperson in the Lower House. You can rightly mention the fact that members of the Lower House are putting on the table part of the proposal rejected by the First Chamber by means of an initiative proposal. This proposal seems to meet a need. For example, during the consultation round, the VNG stated that local authorities had long wished to leave the way in which the board presidents were appointed to the municipality. The Dutch Association for Council Members also supports the initiative proposal. A permanent complaint from council members is that they have less and less time for their representative work and are increasingly being swallowed up by administrative tasks. This proposal creates room for local customization. For example, council members in smaller municipalities and smaller groups can be relieved. By avoiding council members in chairing committee meetings, they leave more time for the "real" council work. The choice whether it is necessary or desirable is thus left to the municipalities, the provinces or the islands themselves. The way of appointment and remuneration is also theirs. Mr. Chairman. So much for the arguments put forward by the applicants. Perhaps you are wondering: that is a nice interpretation of the idea of subsidiarity which the CDA Group cannot oppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u70	Mr Rombouts has a rich experience with council members who do their best and who do not have it easy. Has he ever noticed that a councilman could not do his or her job properly because he or she was chairman of a committee? I have a much shorter experience myself, but at least I spent 17 years in the city council of Tilburg. I've noticed a lot of things there. I have also learned a little bit from it, but I have never noticed that the chairing of a committee is an obstacle to your task. You did have presidents of whom you thought: can't you even go out on the street and go to the people? But most of the time, Presidents did that above average more often than those who were not Presidents. In short, is this bill really a solution to a problem, or have we come up with a problem for which we have this solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u71	Your last question is different from the first question. That's the way it is with the short interruptions in this house. That first question was whether I had ever experienced that council members could not actually add that presidency. The short answer is no. But perhaps Mr. Kox should hear what I'm about to say. I have just said: so much for the arguments of the authors. Now I'm gonna ask my questions. I think he'll be served at his beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u72	But I don't want to miss the opportunity to... Look, if we're gonna talk about Benedictines, I'm gonna have a good time, too. Place bondage was the reason we rejected the previous law here. We believe that aldermen should be seated. But the committee chair is a task for the community. On that point, too, I think that the Benedictines had not seen it so badly. If you're there, you should do the same. My experience has always been that the choice to make a committee chairman led to an enrichment of democracy. Let me give you an example. The PVV Group has quite a bit of a point of view on immigration and asylum. However, this Chamber has decided that the chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Asylum is Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst. I think she is doing an excellent job on that presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u73	That is a question for Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u74	It's an example, but I mean it's also enriching for those who do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u75	Mr. Chairman. Let me repeat the last sentence I said. Perhaps you are wondering: that is a nice interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity, which the CDA Group cannot oppose. You might get that right sometime. Considering the Benedictine vow, this proposal does indeed seem to offer an additional opportunity for service to one's own community. But before we vote on this proposal, we still have a few questions for the authors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u76	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u77	Would they like to explain once again how much the need for municipalities really is? You have already heard me say no to the question about this; I say this mainly on the basis of Bossche practice, but I have also been mayor in Wouw and Boxtel, and I have never noticed. Are they not afraid of improper use? Surely we have understood that the deletion of Article 82 (4) is intended to strengthen the functioning of local, provincial and island democracy by relaxing the burden of council members and strengthening the Presidency of Council and State committees. And not to create jobs for candidates for council membership who just haven't been elected or people who can't say goodbye and get a job like that? Surely it is not the intention of the proposers, over time, to see all local and provincial committees, structurally and in their entirety, manned by Presidents from outside? And so next to 1. an appointed mayor, 2. more and more outside aldermen without electoral mandate and 3. did non-elected committee members/non-Council members also appoint 4. to introduce an army of committee chairmen without electoral mandate, whether or not from consultancy agencies, into the municipal administration? Mr. Chairman. If we have later grown here at this complex, there will undoubtedly be technical means to display pictures. I drew this picture for my group this morning. I'll explain. This is the pyramid of the city council, with the mayor at the top. Of course, that's not well-drawn. That's where the council was supposed to be, but it was a quickie this morning. I made that mayor green because he wasn't elected. Then the aldermen. There has been an increasing lack of choice in recent years. Fortunately, the council members have all been elected. Then the committee members/non-Council members. You have quite a bit of that in several municipalities, also to give people a job. Now we introduce a fourth opportunity to depoliticize local and provincial government. I would appreciate it if the Minister of the Interior or the person acting for it would also reflect on this next week. For with Mr Koole I say: is this proposal, according to her/him, only next week we will know that we will be making a contribution to the proposal by her/her colleague, Mr Ollongren, I am speaking now to Mr Ollongren, who wishes to strengthen local government, bearing in mind this little triangle? Or is it a movement towards depoliticisation of local government? Finally, at the request of my colleague Mr Atsma, is the Minister aware of the development of dualisation in the waterboard of Friesland? I'm just saying it in Dutch, so I can't say it wrong. If so, does the Minister expect the initiative proposal to have an effect in the long term on possible further dualisation in the waterboards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u79	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van den Bosch and Mr Van der Molen on their initiative. I'm glad you got this far. I would also like to thank Mrs Broekers-Knol for being here on behalf of the cabinet. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. It's a sympathetic proposal. A practical problem is solved. Who can, in a manner of speaking, be against that and why have a debate on this at all? I'm from industry, and I've always solved practical problems. The preliminary report asked the necessary questions. These questions have been carefully answered by the initiators and the Minister, for which I am grateful. Our group understands the argument: more room for council members to work for society. However, our group, and also its administrative supporters, is not yet convinced that the legislative proposal before us is the solution to the problem. Our questions are not about possible disadvantages or derailments that have been mentioned earlier in the debate, but are of a more fundamental nature, if I may put it that way. I'll start with a story. In 2003 I started working as a division manager at the psychiatric hospital Vijverdal in Maastricht. That hospital was famous and notorious. Famous for her innovations in healthcare, notorious for having been in financial crisis every seven years. A little year after my arrival, Vijverdal did indeed end up in a new financial crisis. The board of directors resigned and I was asked to take over his duties. I noticed that that did something to me as a person, because suddenly I was full of wind and I was responsible for everything that happened. I couldn't hide behind a broad back, just to put it plastically. I was in the wind, but also with all the sleepless nights of that, because without help our hospital would go bankrupt and we didn't know what bankruptcy would mean for the patients. That was during the period when the hashtag "market forces in care" went viral in politics in The Hague. Mr. Chairman. Why am I telling this story? I think there's more to it than just solving a practical problem. It is also about commitment and responsibility, about political culture and democratic legitimacy. All these questions really come together in that question: what is a technical chairman? I think the adjective, "technical," already indicates what it's about. It's about the technique of chairing. It's about neutrality and expertise. Our group's question is: is it really about this technique? Isn't it much more about commitment and responsibility? I refer to my story about Vijverdal. I am convinced that technical presidents can be found who technically do better than the average council member. I am convinced that external presidents will be found who are involved and who will feel responsible. My group is, however, concerned with the question: what is the Presidency doing with the Council Member, with the Member of the State or with the Island Council itself? It can only be that the answer is: extra involvement and a strong sense of responsibility. Colleague Van der Burg has just filled out how he steers in a way. If I put it that way, I have given a wonderful interpretation of your words, I think! We need that extra feeling and that responsibility. I'd like a response from the initiators and the minister. Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the Remkes report one more time. That report places a great deal of emphasis on the political culture in our country. I also had the opportunity to discuss this with Secretary of State Knops at the time. That report speaks about the feelings of orphanage among citizens. I quote from page 99 of the report: "The administrative tendency towards pragmatic or even technocratic action cannot remove that orphanage. Another political system is not the solution. What is needed is another democratic culture." In any case, our conclusion is that a committee chairman is more than just a technical chairman. She or he is the bearer of a political culture. In recent years, it has become increasingly clear that the link between citizens and government is under pressure; I am simply referring to the various affairs. From a pragmatic point of view, I understand that the initiators are opting for a solution. From a broader perspective, my group has questions about this. During the debate in this Chamber on the proposal to waive the residence requirement for aldermen and delegates, Mrs Huijbregts of the VVD said the following words: "Administrations are expected to live and live close to and among those they run." My question is: wouldn't that also apply to committee chairmen? I'd like a response from the initiators and the minister. Finally, democratic legitimacy. Whoever sits on Twitter learns a lot when his or her tweet ends up in other bubbles. This weekend, I tweeted that I have the OMT high, but that I was unhappy with the fact that individual OMT members already indicated in interviews what the OMT should decide in their vision. I was incredibly critical, because all those tweets said that the OMT was not democratically legitimized and would take all the political decisions. Every reaction I gave turned out to be oil on the fire. What does this teach? This shows that our democracy has become vulnerable. My question to the Minister and the initiators is: should this democratic legitimacy not therefore also be a decisive point? Mr President, I shall conclude. In the Second Chamber debate on this subject, Mr Terpstra of the CDA told a wonderful story about the monk Valentijn. Mr Rombouts also mentioned this. The moral of this wonderful story is that you have to be big in little things. The fraction of the Christian Union was impressed by this story. That monk shows that when you are big in small things, that can lead to the flowering of the garden, to the flowering of the village and to the flowering of society. Wouldn't that also be important for our democratic rule of law, those little things that should lead to bloom? That is why our group looks forward to the reaction of the initiators and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u80	I thank Mr Verkerk for his words on the importance of the presidency's involvement. My question to Mr Verkerk is: what exactly does that mean for democratic legitimacy? Is he saying that if a committee presidency is to be democratically legitimized, then it can only be held by people directly elected as a council member? Or does he say that democratic legitimacy is also present when elected council members appoint the President externally? Is there democratic legitimacy in both cases or only in the first case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u81	Thank you very much for this question. It is fair to say that at the moment when a legislative council in the country decides democratically that an external chairman may be attracted, that in that sense, in the view of our group, is democratically legitimised. That's the first answer. The second answer is that my point was that democracy is becoming more vulnerable. From this vulnerability, my question is to the initiators and the minister: can it not be a reason to pay a great deal of attention to the more direct democratic legitimacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u82	I fully agree with the latter, but I understand from Mr Verkerk's first answer that the criterion of democratic legitimacy, which he so stresses and I very much agree with, cannot in itself be a basis for rejecting or adopting this bill. You can both say that only elected council members can be president, but you can also reason that if the elected council members appoint the chairman, it is also democratically legitimized, as you do. So the criterion of democratic legitimacy cannot be a reason to reject this law. Do I understand Mr Verkerk that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u83	Yeah, when you put it that way, you're absolutely right. We regularly see outside committees in our democracy that are not directly democratically legitimized but democratically legitimised through democracy. I see that parallel, so in that sense I endorse the conclusion you just drew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u84	Mr Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u85	Finally, I would like to quote Mr Rombouts. He noted that there were instantly many unelected officials: the mayor, the alderman on the outside, the unelected committee members, who are already there, and perhaps soon also a non-elected chairman. Doesn't that large amount of unelected people put pressure on democratic legitimacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u86	That's the point of my story. Thank you for bringing that forward. The opinion of our group is that we should be careful about the increase in unelected people. In the end, the issue of democratic legitimacy comes back in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u87	Thank you. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u88	Mr. Chairman. It's been a coming and going from colleagues across the street lately. Yesterday we had another initiative bill in the headline. One of the initiators said to me afterwards: gosh, it's nice here with you guys. I hope that today's two initiators will be as well. He also meant: how exciting it is here. I think that's what the initiators are doing. Of course, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security knows that it is perfectly normal that you have fun and exciting debates here. So I understand that when there was a staff problem, the Secretary of State immediately said, "Do me." If you get to choose between another day sitting somewhere else or once here with us, it doesn't seem hard to me to say. Thank you for coming back, Madam President. That's what I always say. Some titles remain. I will continue to say it to this chairman long after he has been given a different position. I like those titles. I don't like the bill. That's no surprise for both initiators. My party, the SP, is a consistent opponent of "depoliticizing," as Mr Rombouts said well, of local and provincial government. That's how we see it. I'm not going to use very big words for that, because it's not a disaster. But in my party's opinion, it's just not good to do that unless there's a problem that you can't solve other than this way. That was also my question to Mr Rombouts: have we ever seen the problem in practice? I don't think it exists. There are a lot of problems in the area of local and provincial representation. It is very good that this Chamber has decided that we are going to have an in-depth discussion on decentralisation and dualisation. Those two things you have to take together, I'd say. It is very good that the government intends to come forward with a coherent proposal on this issue. It is very important that we look at what we have done to local politics as a national policy by throwing more and more tasks and things over the fence. Often municipalities liked that, but when we didn't give them the resources, they liked it a lot less. That is all very important, but the question is whether this bill, which has been drawn from another bill that has been adopted here, is the right answer to a problem at the moment. The opinion of my group is that that is very doubtful. I have heard the debate say that many groups have doubts as to whether this proposal is the best solution at the moment. My first question to the initiators would therefore be: would they mind voting on this bill only after we have received a broader proposal from the government? Maybe that's personal for them a little annoying. We would then vote after having had the opportunity to debate decentralisation and dualisation here in this Chamber. At least it's not a jumping problem. I have not heard of any congregation: if this is not resolved within now and a few weeks, then we have great malheur here. In any case, I would like to ask the initiators this question, and I would also like to pass it on to the government. Wouldn't it be better for the government, considering, to turn the order around? Mr Van der Burg pointed that out, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u89	I have a question for Mr Kox. I have just heard a number of other senators talking about putting solutions in a broader perspective for these local authorities. In the recent past, we have seen a report from a committee of inquiry on our entire parliamentary system with many solutions. The cabinet started working on this by doing this piece but not doing that part. That became very political. So I would also like to ask whether that makes any sense. We have seen in the recent past, in the binding referendum and so on, that this will never be a total solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u90	We've just had an election. Then you also think: does it all make sense to participate in elections? You ask that question mostly if you haven't done so well; otherwise you think: well, that was very wise. The experience of the Remkes Committee's results has been mixed. I share Mr Van der Linden's conclusion that sometimes the government does work very quickly with certain parts and that other things remain. But I think that is no reason to say that we should not have a big discussion about and no plan for local democracy. It is very important to me, and I would rather see that we do so in the right order than we adopt or coordinate this proposal now and then have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u91	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u92	Mr. Chairman. I was just saying to Mr van der Linden that I attach great importance to local democracy. I spent years in that. Many of us have spent years in local democracy. With respect for what we are doing here: I think that's the best and most interesting level of democracy, because that's where you're actually being addressed on the street with "How could you vote for it? Couldn't you have seen what it looks like?" Or "Why didn't you come and see me before you made a decision?" None of that's gonna bother you around here. I think it is a very high level of democracy, and I see that is waning. When I was very young, which was a long time ago, a man with a long raincoat sometimes walked by us in front of the window. Then my father said, "That's a councilman." They were all from the KVP, so it didn't matter which party. But he said that with respect. Then my mom said, "My dad was a councilman, too." She said that with even greater pride. It's not so common these days that we say that. That is a problem that we really need to address, because there is a very heavy burden on local and provincial representatives. I don't think we're gonna solve that with these technical ways. I think that, on balance, this leads to what Mr Rombouts called 'depoliticisation' of local government and local parliament. That's death in the jar for local government, I think. How does it all have to be? I do not have the wisdom in rent, but that is what we should talk about as a parliament and, of course, with the local authorities. This proposal is not the solution, however pleased I am that the two colleagues across the street are here today. But in return they have at least had a nice and exciting debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u93	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-23-eerstekamer-15.u94	The debate will then continue at a time to be specified. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments in anticipation of the initiators Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Van Toorenburg and the Minister for Justice and Security.
