ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u1	It is a joyful day, because the debate on the citizens' initiative first aid in education is at stake, Parliamentary document 35565. On 18 June 2019, the Red Cross offered this citizens' initiative to the Chamber. In 2020, the Committee for OCW discussed the initiative. She reported it for plenary in September. So it took some time, but today is the day. This is the sixteenth citizens' initiative that has been discussed by the House of Representatives in plenary since the introduction of this instrument in 2006 and it is the first citizens' initiative of the Chamber in its current composition. The initiators of this citizens' initiative are present here in the Chamber. These are Marieke van Schaik, Bernard Leenstra and Marije Breedveld. A very warm welcome. Of course, a warm welcome to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media and, of course, to all those who are following this debate, not least to all my colleagues here today. Mrs Van Schaik will explain the citizens' initiative from the outset. I'd like to ask the Keeper of Chambers to escort her to the office. Dear Mrs Van Schaik, before I give you the floor, I note that the agreement is that you should not interrupt during your speech. So that's very quiet. No questions should therefore be asked or comments made by Members of Parliament. It's actually a kind of maiden speech, of which we have three today. You have five minutes for your explanations. I now give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an honor to speak here today. Thank you all for coming. Also for some of you today is a special moment because of your maiden speech. Congratulations! My name is Marieke van Schaik and I am general director of the Dutch Red Cross. Today I make a plea for the introduction of first aid training for all students in secondary education. This is a citizens' initiative of aid workers, Red Cross people, doctors and emergency services, such as co-initiators Bernard Leenstra and Rob van Someren, people who work for our well-being and know the fragile difference between life and death. After an accident, every minute counts. Everyone wants to be helped quickly in case of emergency, but not everyone knows how to help someone else. Dare action requires knowledge of first aid and confidence to apply it, as the 14-year-old Ruben from Nijkerk has shown. At the end of last year, he and his father Ron are sitting on the couch together when his father suddenly goes into cardiac arrest and collapses. Ruben doesn't hesitate for a moment and starts CPR. Thanks to a CPR course at his school, he immediately knows what to do. If more young people know what to do in an emergency, lives will be saved, perhaps your life or mine. A first aid training is one of the basic equipment of our young people, as is knowledge about health, well-being and citizenship. Unfortunately, it is not self-evident that young people in the Netherlands know what to do in a life-threatening situation. Just like Ruben, only one in six knows how to resuscitate or how to use an aed, while this equipment is available in more and more streets and neighborhoods. We know that in the Netherlands about 40 CPRs per day are performed outside the hospital and that more than 500 people per day benefit from good on-site assistance. Every minute that help stays out of cardiac arrest, the chance of survival drops by 10%. There is also that awareness in the neighbouring countries. In Norway, nine out of ten young people know what to do since first aid lessons are compulsory at school. In Denmark, the number of successful CPRs has tripled after first aid became a permanent part of secondary school. Our proposal focuses on life-saving skills, such as resuscitating and dealing with asphyxiation and severe bleeding. Here bystanders with a simple act make the difference between life and death. Young people also learn, for example, how to deal with epilepsy, stroke or firewalls. Direct intervention can also make an important difference for the victim. The right first aid also has positive effects on the overall health care system. According to the UMC's medical research, it contributes to a huge reduction in the cost of care. This while approximately EUR 5 million is needed for the introduction of first aid training. Our citizens' initiative has broad social support. This is demonstrated by the amount of positive reactions and signatures. Young people themselves are also in favour of it. Nine political youth organisations support our call in a manifesto, and there is support from the National Action Committee on Schools. That's not surprising either, because over 90% of high school students want to learn this very much. But aren't civil society already doing a lot to promote first aid knowledge? Yeah, we've been doing that for years. Unfortunately, not all schools have the financial resources to make training available. A guest lesson to provide training can also relieve teachers. But sometimes change doesn't happen by itself and then a little help is needed, and commitment from all of us. What I find special about Ruben's story is that he not only knew what to do, but also really did it. Providing first aid during an emergency requires more than just having the right knowledge and skills. Self-confidence is an essential condition, and you only develop it if you know what to do. Ruben had that courage, and with it he probably saved his father's life. Young people can save lives if they have the right basic equipment. Politics now has the chance to prevent young people from finding themselves in a situation where they do not know what to do. If we now invest in first aid training in secondary education, we will have a society in a few years' time in which everyone knows what to do in an emergency, and is able to help someone else. Not only do young people benefit from this for the rest of their lives, but the whole of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you so much for your inspiring story. The Chamber will now discuss your citizens' initiative. Thanks again. I would first like to give the floor to Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD for her first-term contribution. It's also her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the citizens' initiative, I will take the unique opportunity to speak a little longer than usual and also to dedicate a little more than I am used to; you will notice that. I love being a spokesperson in education. I really have half a meter of paper to read through, but I started reading about Haya van Someren, a figurehead within the VVD. Haya van Someren hammered her entire life on education. She was a feminist avant la lettre, battleable and passionate. She died too soon. I was 4. It was the year I started my high school career at a primary school in Arnhem. After elementary school, I went to a school community with a sounding Cito score, just like everyone else did. Thinking back, I realized that I was only in vwo with one other girl from my sixth grade elementary school. Now I say as a spokesman: that is actually a rather low score. My parents were very proud that I was on vwo, because then I could go to the heao, around the corner in Arnhem. There's never been any mention of college at our home or at school. That word simply did not appear in the vocabulary. So I went to the heao, but I went to Utrecht. And as a result of some kind of personal experiment, I also started a law study in year two. That was a golden grip. I switched over to law after a year. I was the first in my family to go to higher education, and that's something. I was moved by the article in the magazine of Het Financieele Dagblad a few weeks ago in which there were three profiles of young people, entitled "First of your family to a university." Because I recognized that feeling of being a kind of Alice in Wonderland, and also the idea that one day a teacher will ask you: what are you doing here? But I sat there and I stayed there, and with enough self-confidence and hard work............................................................................................................. I've enjoyed student life to the fullest. So, without a premeditated plan, I have made a very good use of the opportunities offered by education. That has given me freedom, and that is the most important thing for me. An education contributes to more choices in your work, which of course also gives you your own money, and thus more freedom. With my academic title I could start a trainee program. Of course, that was a very nice and comfortable start to my career. Mr. Chairman. But I don't think a university degree is a blessing. My parents are entrepreneurs. In the years of their lives they were supposed to be in school, they were at work. Because that was the norm. They built their own business together. Did they have bad luck because they didn't have a chance at training? With today's look, I say yes, sure. That's opportunity inequality avant la lettre. But are they pathetic? No, not at all. Life isn't fixable. It's the art of getting the maximum out for yourself, in freedom. My parents did. Because of them I also like entrepreneurs: entrepreneurs with their free spirit, their selfishness and their endless commitment and responsibility. They always figure out how to make nothing out of anything. I am very grateful for what they have given me. It taught me just those things I couldn't have gotten out of the books in any way. Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here with a lot of pride. Entrepreneurship is in my DNA and I'm a lawyer; that's not awkward in this business either. I'll take that as a Member of Parliament. Today we are discussing the First Aid Civic Initiative in secondary education. A citizens' initiative is a fine example of entrepreneurship. I commend the efforts of the Red Cross, but also those of Mr Leenstra and Mr Van Someren. My group wholeheartedly supports the initiative. We don't call it for nothing in our election program either. But I would like to say to the Minister: understand me well, the focus of education is of course on basic skills, namely language, reading, arithmetic and writing. It is precisely the level of basic skills that is under increasing pressure. The quality of education needs to be improved. Fortunately that sound also sounds from left to right in this Chamber; that is a very good start. But the direction of resolution is different. What level of quality are we pursuing now? What does public accountability of education look like? We've come to talk about this in detail. I look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. But school is more than the basics. It is also about socialisation, sports and exercise and citizenship. As far as the VVD is concerned, training in life-saving skills can be part of that. Because in the event of a serious medical emergency, you said so already, acting bystanders in the first few minutes is crucial. The more people know what to do, the better. I would like to hear the Minister's response to the initiative. In particular, I would like to ask him how he looks at the desire of initiators to give this a place in the curriculum. The discussion on the curriculum review is ongoing. The field of action is now on. My group would like to keep it that way. But how does the Minister view this? Is it conceivable for the Minister that first aid should be part of the citizenship profession, which has already been discussed a great deal in this Chamber? Mr. Chairman. Even without the obligation in the curriculum, my group believes that it should be possible to encourage first aid in secondary education. Students want it and for society it is pure profit. How does the Minister see this? Is the Minister prepared to explore how this initiative can be supported by the Ministry? I would also like to ask the Minister who he thinks should give such training. Of course, that doesn't have to be the teacher. I understood that there are, for example, medical students who can obtain credits for this type of training. The Red Cross has also offered its cooperation. But what is the Minister's position on this? Mr President, I will conclude. Thanks again to the initiators. For me, this is a good example of a concrete solution to a specific problem, which is also called for by those who are young people. That is also a great compliment to the young people who want to take responsibility for this. To speak in entrepreneurial terms: a closing business case. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you very much! Congratulations on your maiden speech. I'm suspending for a few moments, so we can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u6	We're moving on. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Michon on this maiden speech. I remember when it was a special moment for me. I was allowed to talk about education, of course, but I think it's very special to be standing here and talking about education, about your own career and your own family, and to be able to bring your own situation as a first-generation student into your maiden speech. I think that's beautiful. We've been listening with interest. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the initiators of this citizens' initiative. It does not happen so often that we are discussing a citizens' initiative here. I think it's even the first time for me, when I've been a Member of Parliament for over four years now. That shows how special it is. I would like to thank Marieke van Schaik for her clear explanation. It's very handsome that in a few minutes you can make us very clear why it's so badly needed. I would also like to apologize immediately for having to leave, unfortunately, after this input. Unfortunately, sometimes there are more things at the same time. When your fraction gets smaller, you have to be in several places at once, for example during a briefing on corona. So it's not a disinterest, but unfortunately you can't be in two places at once. Mr. Chairman. When I was preparing for this debate, I was wondering which one of us can resuscitate and know how to use an aed. At least I don't know that. I see Mr Peters with his finger, and Mrs Michon; fortunately, there are a number of people here. I was wondering why I can't do it myself. That's because it never came my way. Actually, that's a shame. I listened carefully to the introduction and looked at the figures provided by the Red Cross. Then we read that the Netherlands is lagging behind the rest of Europe and that other countries are doing much better. Only 17% of Dutch people aged 14 and over have a valid and recognized first aid diploma or certificate, while this knowledge can literally save lives. That became very clear from the introduction. Mr. Chairman. Last year, when the initiators came to us, I was immediately enthusiastic. I have spoken with Mr Leenstra, who is sitting there for a while. I was wondering how something that can save lives and that's so important isn't arranged. I just happened to talk to my dad about it last week. He used to do the mts. He said, "It was just in training with me." He even graduated. He's a welder in engineering now. He said, "I've just benefited my whole life from helping people if, for example, there's an accident on the work floor. It is therefore of course nice that there is someone nearby who knows how to act immediately and that you do not have to wait until the company aid provider or someone with even more medical knowledge arrives. I am therefore curious whether the Minister knows how it is now possible that this has apparently disappeared from the curriculum or at least disappeared from some of the people. What's that got to do with? Has there been a clear balance and what makes it that this is no longer in the curriculum? What makes this different from, for example, the road test in education? We find it very logical that young people learn how to ride their bikes safely on the streets. Does the Minister also know how many schools offer first aid training? Is it, in fact, the financial barriers that not all schools do? What does the Minister think of the proposal that is being made here? It's not about weekly training, it's about a couple of hours in education. Does he see with the initiators that this may also relieve teachers because someone can provide guest training? How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Like I said, I'm excited. I also hope that the Minister will respond with enthusiasm. The Red Cross would like to do so, but as many as 60,000 people have signed this proposal. The LAKS, pupil organisations and nine political youth organisations, including our own DWARS, have also said that they support this. What is also very important, of course, is that students in secondary education indicate that they want this very much. I don't think anything helps so well in teaching when people are motivated to be able to do it. I therefore find it very nice that the students are enthusiastic. I am very curious to see what the Minister will do with these signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, and good luck with all the other activities today. I give the floor to Mr Beertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Michon. It was a beautiful maiden speech; I enjoyed it. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the authors of this citizens' initiative. A citizens' initiative is the most direct way for every electorate to influence politics and government, but there are quite a few conditions such an initiative must meet. And the biggest obstacle, of course, is those at least 40,000 supporting signatures. It's turned 60,000. It is not for nothing that from 2006 to 2020 only eight citizens' initiatives were finally dealt with in plenary in the House of Representatives. The fact that this initiative is on the agenda today is therefore worth a big compliment, and I would like to congratulate the initiators here. It is important that young people have knowledge of how to act when an accident has occurred. We believe that this is important not only for young people, it is even more important for the victims, of course, but also for society as a whole that is not an unnecessary luxury. The only question is whether education should be responsible for this. Education has been seen for some time as a hub for all social problems and any social inconvenience that cannot be easily parked. Education as a panacea against all social ailments. Whether it's more exercise, healthier eating, drug prevention, the fight against smoking and alcohol, safer traffic, combating global warming or banning Black Piet, education knows what to do. At least that is what the citizens, the lobbyists and the activists think, especially these movements that all present their own theme as the most important of all. And they are also important themes, each with their own values, apart from the last two, as you will understand from our perspective. And they all know for sure that they're going to save lives, save the world, even if education does its utmost to create space in the curriculum. But, Mr. Chairman, education doesn't know what to do. We really do not mean this cynical and we also see the added value of giving first aid lessons to young people, but not in secondary education. Our objection to such initiatives is mainly based on the inconsolable urge to continue to fill our education with all kinds of things that have little or no connection with the primary task of education. This primary task is to emancipate and elevate, transfer knowledge and skills, and at the root of this is education in the core subjects. Those core subjects are reading, writing and math. As long as we accept that almost a quarter of the 15-year-olds go to secondary education as a semi-alphabet, as functional illiterate as it is called, and that 53% of primary school pupils go to secondary education without reaching the statutory target levels of calculation and would actually have fallen, because that is how we should see it again, if there were a final examination in primary education, we would have other, more urgent problems. The citizens' initiative states that many people do not know what to do when an accident has occurred and that almost all young people between 12 and 18 years of age think that first aid courses should be provided in secondary education. Research carried out by the University Medical Centre in Utrecht also shows that first aid education in secondary schools improves public health and even reduces the cost of care. We find such statements questionable, but we find them particularly typical of the way in which our education is looked at when it comes to what our education actually needs to take care of. It is not the task of foundational education to improve public health or reduce costs in healthcare. This misconception is already going wrong. We find it very doubtful that the subsidy costs: EUR 5 million from first aid education could lead to savings of around EUR 280 million. It seems to us to be a bit out of the blue, and this kind of expectation is somewhat detrimental to the relevance of the initiative. Finally, Mr President. The Red Cross has traditionally always had a function in the neighbourhoods. That's where first aid classes are given, even in my street. There I always see enthusiastic people coming in and out. That's where people are qualified to provide first aid. We would like to see this role taken up again. There, in that place, but also in private business and in the public and semi-public sector, this belongs more to us than to overcrowded and overtired education. That's how it says the PVV fraction. In any case, I wish the initiators every success in their mission to bring first aid to the attention of the citizens in this way. So far, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Beertema, thank you very much. Then we will continue with Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. The core of good education is intensive contact between learner and teacher, so excellent lessons. I am, in principle, sceptical about anything that distracts or could distract from it. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a citizens' initiative today, and that is not just happening. It takes energy and effort to get an initiative discussed in the Lower House. For the initiative, the passion and the content, I have nothing but a great deal of respect. Faced with passion, man is inclined to move along, to think along in the vein and in the mindset of the author, me too. Perhaps one is not directly inclined to say 'let's take over the proposal one-on-one', but still to try to find out if and how something could be adapted. That sounds wise, because who's against investigation? Who's against first aid? No one at all, and besides, we don't commit to anything. But the CDA still wants to be clear. We do not want compulsory first aid classes at school and we do not want to create false hopes by having something investigated. I'll explain why. Mr. Chairman. A school is, if it's okay, a community of values, a place where you, as a student, naturally gain knowledge. This mainly, but also a place of inspiration, of dialogue, of encouragement and of meeting. So it's a place where you can grow as a human being. This is not least true for teachers. As far as the CDA is concerned, people and communities of people need peace, purity, regularity and rituals to grow. Rest, solidity and focus, and as far as we are concerned it is lacking in many schools. In my education career, as interim director in several schools, I learned that in most weak schools there is no lack of goodwill, no lack of hard-working teachers and no lack of a multitude of initiatives and good intentions. It lacked solidity, rest, focus. Mr. Chairman. As an educational community, it is not easy to keep that determination, that rest and that focus, to do everything possible as a team so that the lessons, where the meeting between the student and the teacher takes place, remain in the first, second and third place. Because there is so much important and we are so easily enthusiastic, and how big can the tax be on that one project, that other foreign trip, the next educational profiling possibility or yet yet yet another outside teaching activity? That tax isn't so bad, is it? Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a citizens' initiative: first aid, life-saving skills, as an integral part of the secondary school curriculum. No one has to convince me of the importance of learning those skills, no one at all. It's not that I don't think saving lives is important or that it's not important for people to have anything left for each other, but the CDA is very reluctant when it comes to imposing new teaching programmes or parts of them in the curriculum. Let's help schools focus on what needs to be done. There's still a lot of profit to be made. I wonder how the Minister sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u12	I understand all this. Of course we have to be very careful. I can also agree with much of Mr Beertema's story when it comes to the concerns about the overload, the deviation from basic skills and so on. My colleague from the CDA has a very nice story here that the CDA absolutely doesn't want any things to come into education, but I should like to remind Mr Peters that in the previous programme of the CDA we all had to learn the Wilhelmus out of our heads. I wonder how he's gonna look back on that when he uses those big words here. What was his position on that at the time? Did he lose that fight?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think this is beautiful. I had really seen all kinds of things coming from Mr Van Meenen...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u14	Well, I've got a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u15	But that we're going to turn the Wilhelmus against the curriculum? No, of course that was something else. That was about emphasising... Just what we say: if it is right, we as a school, but also as a community, like the Netherlands, are a community of values. It is important to stress that what we share with each other, I hope that we share some things with each other once in a while. In that context, Mr. Van Meenen, you should see it, but you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u16	I understand that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u17	It's true, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u18	I might have given it to you myself if I didn't know how to do it anymore. Let me get this straight. We are flooded with requests for for example a course of pictures, a course of love, a course of happiness, mindfulness, you name it all. You can find anything you want. D66 wouldn't say about that either: boys, throw it all in. But this is about a value, namely the value of life itself. That's at stake here. This is about life-saving actions, not about pots or creative with cork.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u19	Macrameans, clays; no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u20	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u21	Do you make a distinction from your values between one or the other, between what you add to the curriculum or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u22	It's actually very simple. Mr Bertema said it too. It's very important to teach children not to use drugs. It saves lives. It's very important to teach mental health. It is very important to give lessons about healthy pregnancy or not becoming pregnant healthy. We can do all that. Then it stops; then we cannot put that focus on education. The chaos that it is common left and right will not be any less but more and I just don't want that. We also get emails and ask that the mental health of children is not going well and that we should include lessons in the curriculum. We simply cannot do all that, and I think I am quite clear that I do not want to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u23	Locking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u24	Yeah, just one more attempt at getting it a little cleaner. If you look closely at the initiative, there is really no question of education here at all. It is an offer of education to be provided by other than teachers. Does that matter to Mr Peters or does he prefer to create the image that all this is thrown on the teacher's plate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u25	Well, I'm just trying to prevent a lot of extra stuff from being thrown on the teacher's plate at all. I have also heard very clearly that these are extracurricular activities that can be given by people from outside. You can even earn credits from it. That's all fine. If a school thinks they should, then they should, but that's another thing than saying from The Hague that I think it should? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u26	Of course, I totally agree with the speaker who says: it is about language, arithmetic, reading. No one will disagree with that, but have you also seen in the initiative what the load in hours is for this training, which can indeed save human lives? Do you know the tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u27	Yeah, I've seen it. In fact, just before we entered this debate, I had a cup of coffee and it was said: we are giving those lessons ourselves, so we need time in the roster and a space. That is not so bad, as it is with all the other outdoor activities that we do and which we consider important. Those too hardly cost time and energy. And that's the problem: we're doing way too many.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u28	I think it is important to stress that it is three hours in a period of at least four years in high school, if it isn't five or six years: three hours and once another three hours. When it comes to extracurricular activities, when it comes to matters other than mathematics, language and reading, I don't know how you said it, then that would also mean that things like a getaway here or there in a high school should all come out. Do you agree with me that a school is so much more than sec reading, math, writing and language? It is precisely these three hours of tax that can save lives that we should support as Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u29	It is a fine line of reasoning, but I will explain to you why it does not apply as far as I am concerned. Look, those schools themselves choose all kinds of activities with which they see the case in my eyes... you can choose, because school is much more than just those lessons. The school is a value community. It is about dialogue and meeting, it is about growth as a human being. But it takes focus on what a school wants to do. If a school can choose to do all kinds of activities outside the school, then it can choose not to do them for a while and instead give this first aid training, this saving way of working? Then one of these schools should do it. It is not up to me and certainly not from The Hague to choose how to do that. From my own education career or my own view of schools, I see schools doing everything. They don't choose. And I'm not gonna force them to choose anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u30	Mrs. Michon, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u31	Yeah, closing. Then I am sorry that my colleague here is not sending the signal that in the choice that a school can make, The Hague says: as far as we are concerned, this three-hour training that can save your lives should be at the top of your priority list. We can send that signal today. And that is not what your group is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u32	No, that's right, because I don't think we should choose schools from The Hague at all. I can say that if I were a school director, I'd choose a life-saving work course rather than a pitrites course or what was it. I would certainly do that, without any doubt. But then I am director of a school and not a MP in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u33	I am very curious how my colleague from the CDA has heard here a few times that this training doesn't put any pressure on the curriculum, it rhymes an offer from the outside for a few hours with the words "emancipation" and "lifting" he used. What is not emancipating, what is not part of upliftment, in learning life-saving actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u34	I didn't talk about emancipating or elevating. That was Mr Beertema, but it doesn't matter, because I could have said it. There's nothing emancipating or uplifting about learning life-saving skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u35	Does my colleague agree with me that anyone who is able to help someone else when it really matters can literally be of vital importance to all of us? If anything happens to you later, we happen to have three guests in the house today, and I'm sure they can help. It would be nice if there were such people here at other times. I can reassure you: I am one of them, I could help you. What can you say that we ensure that all the adults of the future are the young people of today taking the same skills for the rest of their lives? They can help friends, family, colleagues, parents, everyone around them when they need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u36	I couldn't argue with that at all. In fact, that would be very nice. The question is whether I want to organise it through education or, more importantly, that I want to make it compulsory from The Hague to organise it through education. I don't make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mrs Simons, closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u38	Sorry, just a minute. I don't make that choice. I want to help schools to say that I have a focus and it should not be on all kinds of outdoor activities, however important. 'Cause they're doing so much already that it's going on at many schools before... it's going too far to call it chaos, but it's just too much. So I don't want to add any more because I think it's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u39	Very briefly, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u40	We know we're not putting pressure on the curriculum, the teachers and the schools. This is not something they should be doing. This is a service that could be provided for a few hours. Unfortunately, that argument does not stand up for me. But here's the thing. We teach road safety lessons in this country, because we think it is important for children to be able to travel safely. We teach swimming because we think it's important for children to be able to save themselves in the water. Why can't we teach kids how to put on a bandage properly, how to stick the right patch and how to put someone in the stable side position when it really matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u41	That could be a good idea, I say to Mrs Simons. When schools say "I want to do that, that fits and I don't do all kinds of outdoor activities, I don't go on school trips abroad every year, I don't give a computer course here, lessons about smoking there, an insmeer sister and a mental health lesson like that," whatever happens, they can make that choice of mine. I am just saying that I do not choose to say from The Hague that we are going to organise this in this way. Schools have to do that themselves, if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u42	There is another question from Mrs Gündoğan of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u43	I find it striking that there is a bias as if it could not fit at all, rather than looking at how we come out of the culture of six and helping the schools to process this, to offer it. Norway and other countries show that excellent education and first aid can go together. Instead of your reasoning "it doesn't fit, it can't, it doesn't belong, I'm not going to dictate schools from The Hague," we could look at how we can make this fit. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u44	I do not agree that I would have said that it cannot and that it does not fit. I say: I am not going to impose a school from The Hague to do so, because they are already doing so much. It could fit very well. It could even be a good idea for a lot of schools. Why not? It might even be a very good idea. Only, I want to help schools choose. I don't want to impose things from The Hague, no matter how important they are. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Of course, I can say, "Yes, why a C-culture? We're gonna teach mental health classes for kids. It makes them less depressed. That saves lives." I think that's gonna work, too. Only, I cannot say from The Hague 'you will do that too', even if someone from the GGZ comes to give that course, just to give an example. We just have to say that education is already incredibly busy with itself. Anything that distracts from that core I am really talking about excellent lessons, which, as far as I am concerned, are on one, two and three... We just have to be very careful to say here from The Hague: you will do a little more. It always has influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yes, but when we talk about the differences in education, we know that education is very much linked to zip code areas. Children in certain zip code areas, in particular those with low socio-economic backgrounds, do not come into education at all. We can also determine that with each other. The education that is offered there must therefore take on additional things in any case compared to a zip code area where it is all good. So instead of thinking from The Hague how we can put in place measures to enable every child to develop, move forward and be free, up to the top of his potential, we are simply stuck in the freedom of education. Who is more important here: the child or the education, which is simply filled out by parents and directors of schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u46	You're making it very broad. There are neighbourhoods where indeed incredibly many children come from school who have to live as functional illiterate, who cannot be tutored by rich parents, who we declare dyslexic and who do not learn to read and write properly by a desk, well, learn to read and write moderately. Especially for those children and those schools, I would say very specifically: the focus should be on reading, language, mathematics and citizenship skills. Right there. When we go to those schools and say, "We think it's so important that you become excellent," when a quarter can't read... I think that's the wrong way to go. That's where the focus should be on the base.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mrs Gündoğan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u48	Then I find from my European perspective... Look at Finland, which does offer excellent education and which, according to the OECD year in, is from the top in Europe. There is just sport, game and culture offered every day. You are now pretending that classical, cognitive subjects are at odds with further development. That does not have to be the case and Finland shows that. I therefore challenge you to look beyond the borders with me and to take up education in the Netherlands next level as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u49	I happen to have been to Finland as well, and I really didn't say that the fact that they are more athletic is why they offer excellent education there. There are many other reasons for that. I am not saying that education is going to be bad if we go to a school in a disadvantaged area with a lot of gymnastics. It just isn't. I really want to think with you about how we can draw education next level, but if the basis is not in order in a lot of places, if it is not 6, I'm not going to say here that I'm going to invest in making it a 9. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u50	Thank you. I call Mr De Hoop of the PvdA. For you, too, today is your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mr. Chairman. When I was four weeks old, my biological mother laid me in a cafe in Addis Ababa. Two police officers took me to the nearest orphanage in that city. A few months later, I was adopted by my Frisian heist and mem. Whoever has put me on this world is unknown to me, but who has given me the loving upbringing that allows me to stand in this place today, there is no doubt whatsoever. My hell grew up in Wommels. From a young age he helped my pack Daan on the farm, and at the age of 23 he took on the company's grand responsibility. Now, 40 years later, he still lives with his great love on the Súdhoeke. My mother Tineke also grew up on a farm, but then in Elst. When she was 20, she became a lab technician at Koopmans flour factory in Leeuwarden. When she lost her job a few years ago, she popped up her sleeves and went back into the school banks to be one of the driving forces for rehabilitation in Leeuwarden, and that in corona time. Mr. Chairman. I know as their son that getting and taking opportunities is not part of your DNA. It's about what and the ones you have around you. That's what equal opportunities is about. Equality of opportunity is about much more than happiness. It's about what you get and what you can learn, at school and around you, from experiences or from the club's soccer coach in your village. Opportunity equality doesn't just come out of nowhere. As a society and as a policy, we have a responsibility to organise it for every child. To gain experience, to learn new things and thereby to further strengthen equality of opportunity, that fits with cheerful, fine and safe education. That's why I'm so excited about the first aid citizens' initiative in education. We inspire the doctors and nurses of the future at a young age. I would like to thank the initiators for this initiative. More than 60,000 people support the Red Cross' appeal to politics to teach first aid skills. Being able to resuscitate is vital. It makes people more able to dare to intervene when someone around them has a heart attack or an epileptic seizure. It is important for the Labour Party that teachers should not be burdened with this further. After all, an overcharged education programme does not improve a child. If such a proposal is not at the expense of regular education programmes, the PvdA is positive about this. I therefore have a number of questions for the Minister. How does he look at the initiators' argument that the large-scale provision of first-aid courses in education has no effect on the already too high workload, as the lessons are offered by third parties? Does he share this view of the plans? Does the Minister see opportunities to stimulate first-aid courses because of the social added value and the potential health benefits that can be gained from them? Is he also willing to consult with the US Secretary of State? Does the Minister see added value in providing lessons in assistance to create understanding and affinity for the role of aid workers? That has not been appointed today. Does he see this as an opportunity to reduce violence against aid workers in the future, or does he expect that to be unrelated? Mr. Chairman. It is an honor and it remains an honor to be here for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u52	Thank you for your very personal and also inspiring story. Congratulations. This was your maiden speech. I'm going to suspend to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u53	This promises a lot of good. All the maiden speeches we've heard so far are all inspiring and appealing to the imagination. We are now going to listen to the third maiden speech: that of Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u55	You can put the microphone down a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u56	Yeah, I'm not that tall. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u57	Better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr. Chairman. I want to start with a conversation from the beautiful book The Flyer of Khaled Hosseini that has always been with me as a reader. In this conversation with his son, who calls his father Baba, the father says: "Listen. Whatever the mullah may say, there is only one sin, no more than one. And that's stealing. Every other sin is a variation on theft. Do you understand? (...) When you kill someone, you steal a life, said Baba. You steal his wife's right to a husband and rob his children of a father. If you tell a lie, you steal someone's right to the truth. If you cheat on someone, you steal their right to a just treatment. Can you follow that?" Amir could do that. The question that now needs to be asked to this Chamber is: can the Chamber follow that? Let me give just a few examples. With the inhumane policy, the Moria refugee camp contributes to the theft of human dignity. The supplementing affair is for affected families theft of their most beautiful years. The neglect of the climate is theft of a clean environment for future generations. Today we are here to debate first aid in education. For Volt, this is a subject that we wholeheartedly support. At the same time, in some schools in 2021, children cannot even be shown how to put a condom around a penis. According to these schools, this would be contrary to the religious view, which is considered more important than adequate sexual education. We see schools where boys and girls aren't allowed to work out together. A school that's struggling with Darwin's theory of evolution. Schools where transgenders are painfully placed as boys who want to look like girls or vice versa. And I haven't even mentioned schools where children are pushed out of the closet unsolicited. Volt believes that this can not only be different, but that this should also be different. Mr. Chairman. It is this kind of education that we in the Netherlands not only accept, but also finance. We thus finance the theft of knowledge and optimal development of the child. And as if that's not bad enough, that funding contributes to segregation. Because in those schools children of a different religion or without religion are not welcome, just like children who are lhbti-plus or, as those schools say themselves: children who do lhbti-plus. On an individual level, children are rejected. The children who are welcome at such schools are being segregated and raised in a parallel world. Segregation, a word where we think of a lost past or of unfair societies elsewhere, far away. It takes place daily in our education. Instead of offering space to Bildung, we give children a stump in which they have to grow up. But this is not the only thing in education that is structurally and fundamentally distorted. Education was once the place where you could climb the ladder of social mobility as a child. I got to do it. But now opportunity inequality is loud and clear, although that should not surprise us. The OECD reports have been showing this trend for a long time, along with figures from schools where a quarter of children go to school without breakfast and do not wear dense shoes in winter. So you don't have to be a pediatrician or pedagogue to know that it's bad learning under such circumstances. We steal a carefree childhood because of this. But we steal more: we steal from our labour market the future knowledge workers and we steal from our democracy its own citizens who have fiduciary in their country and in their government. It is precisely the government that has to vouch for the provision of social security. Because as American President Franklin Delano Roosevelt said so beautifully: True individual freedom can not exist without economic security and independence. People who are hungry and out of a job are the stuff of which dictatorships are made. FDR was a great statesman and is still a personal source of inspiration to me. What made him so special is that he made choices that went against his own interests. He himself came from a very privileged family, but he had an eye for the ordinary American. That is what a statesman does: not stealing, but giving to his people, not choosing for his own good, but for the common good, not breaking down, but precisely building the generations to come. Mr. Chairman. We are on the verge of forming the future of new generations, a generation of children for whom it is not allowed to decide whether their mother is a radiologist or their father's conductor, a generation whose last name, skin colour or belief should not put them at the forefront or disadvantage, a generation who is able to learn and play with a stuffed stomach and warm, clean clothes, a generation who, in order to speak in the words of Baba, must be able to count on fair treatment. A generation that will soon have the opportunity to develop into the state people of this country. But then we must let education give real Bildung and give room to our children, because their chances and futures are intertwined with our choices in the Chamber. That's what I'm going to be committed to over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u59	Thank you very much for your passionate story, with a personal note. Very nice that you referred to the book De Vliegeraar, for many people a very nice book. Thank you and congratulations on your maiden speech. I'm suspending for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u60	It is not his maiden speech, but Mr Van Meenen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr President, I am going to be very happy today. Really! That is not only because I see you again, but also because we are discussing such a beautiful initiative today. But it's because of the three maiden speeches I've heard. It makes me so happy. It's really a pleasure to hear a little more from people's lives and to see how strong people's lives and the fact that they end up here have to do with education and offering opportunities to everyone. I say this as a first-generation student, like Mrs Michon, as a father-in-law of a princess who had her origins in Eritrea and as someone who also has an educational vision, like Volt. There was a lot of recognizability in that. It was good to hear, and it makes me happy. I hope that we can continue to find that heart for education in the Chamber and that we can help the education to get better. That is what this initiative is about, of course. It is really an initiative that is different from many other initiatives. First of all, because it reaches this Chamber. Mr. Beertema has already explained how special that really is. In the years in which I sit in the Chamber, which has been for eight and a half years, this is the second time that we, as an education committee, have seen an educational initiative. We also discussed the initiative on small classes. That was nice, too, but this is of a different order. We get a lot of questions, in the sense of: do this and that in the curriculum. It is right that education should be seen as an opportunity to make people's lives better, but we should be very reluctant about that. That has been sufficiently explained by those who seem to be opposed to this initiative. We still have very serious concerns about other basic skills, such as mathematics and language. There are great concerns about that. They are mainly in primary education, by the way. It is really crazy for words that children are coming out of school who do not have enough language skills. In fact, you have the right to learn how to read, to count and to write. I have said that in a motion. That's gotta be the focus of everything. But that doesn't mean that other things can't be important. We have made our own proposals, and I hope that we will be able to work on them in the near future. They're about a rich school day for every kid. A school day that is more than just the part where you learn the basic skills, but where you also get to know sports and culture, for example, and get a warm lunch. That's what Volt was referring to. There are kids in school with an empty stomach. You may want them to learn math and language, but if your stomach isn't filled, you can't. So we want a rich school day for every child. This could very well be part of that. We must, of course, warn about this. It is right that this has happened, but we do not have to be afraid of it in this case, because there is an offer of organisations, such as the Red Cross. But others will undoubtedly also be needed, such as the first aid associations and all those volunteers who are already working in this country. I see it as an offer to education, where it is our role to see how we can support it. That is why I will be a co-signator of a motion which Mrs Michon will be tabling shortly. I don't have any questions for the Minister. I hope he looks at this the same way, but we're gonna see that. Let's see what's possible, with all the conditions I've attached to it. But let's give it a chance. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u62	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Simons from BET1 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u63	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to express my warm congratulations to all the colleagues who made their maiden speech today. It was really beautiful. It was a good time to catch up, it's a nice subject and they were beautiful stories. I would like to thank colleagues for that. What a beautiful and important subject we are discussing today. However, I must begin my speech by apologizing to one of the authors of this citizens' initiative. I started calling you "Doctor Bernard" lovingly. The people of my generation know the association. Dr. Bernard, I've been a little rude to you, and you're one of the doctors behind this initiative. I was a guest at a Clubhouse last Friday. Very briefly for those who don't know what that is: it's an app that allows you to make endless phone calls with infinitely many people. That's very useful for politicians to get in touch with the public. I was a guest in one of those Clubhouse rooms. That was very exciting for the young Amin, who hosted it for the first time. For me it was the first time to visit him. After a nice conversation, the guests in the room were also allowed to ask questions. Then suddenly there was Dr. Bernard. That was the moment I had to apologize for, because when he began to tell me about this initiative, I actually fell into his head after two sentences. I said, "Yes, no, I'm gonna make myself tough." That could have sounded like "well, go on," but that was absolutely not the way it was supposed to be, Dr. Leenstra. At least it was meant to be. Mr. Chairman. I just didn't need much time to realize that the care these doctors put here is one that, as far as I'm concerned, needs to be addressed as soon as possible, even immediately. In a country where we realize that we need to teach children road safety, to educate them sexually and to understand the importance of swimming lessons, we have not yet considered giving them another life-saving skill: to provide first aid. In order to prepare a good plea, as I promised Dr. Leenstra at Clubhouse, I tried to imagine what objections I would have to overcome here and how I would have to convince my colleagues to agree to this. I have heard a number of attempts to do so, but not really any argument not to do so. Who can be against us taking the responsibility as a politician to teach people at a young age how to help others and themselves in situations where a stable lateral position can make a great deal of difference, or to roll the right link can prevent a lot of bloody? Who can be against investing in life-saving skills and that we are going to see it as an investment in public health? Most accidents happen at home. How nice would it be if a child like Ruben, from the example we have heard today, could help his parent? In this case, so did he. Mr De Hoop mentioned that it could be an investment in getting respect towards our aid workers. Giving first aid lessons can also be a nice way to build solidarity, humanity and responsibility. Why should that knowledge depend on the neighborhood you grow up in, on your parents' income and therefore on how high your school's voluntary parental contribution is? Mr. Chairman. I'll never forget how proud and confident I was when I got my first E.R. degree in primary school. That's what I've been carrying for years. Since then, I haven't kept up with it enough, though; I have to say that honestly. I like that. I do this not only for myself, for my children or for my grandchild, but I also like that even with my probably somewhat too limited knowledge of first aid I can help anyone who needs help. I'd like to give it to everyone, including young people. I can't imagine the Minister thinking differently. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u64	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u65	This is actually all about things I can't be against. The list of things I can't stand, I can make infinitely long. Who could be against preventing skin diseases by putting sunscreen on children at school? Who could be against drug prevention? Who could be against world peace, or anything? But does Mrs Simons agree with me that if we make this list infinitely long, then from The Hague we must impose infinitely on schools that they will also arrange it? Or is it just for this? Well, then I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u66	Immediately after the introduction, one of the initiators made it clear: this is not about putting extra pressure on schools. This is not about obliging schools to put even more into the curriculum, spending even more time on things that my colleague does not think are at the core. This is about three hours in a school period of four, five, six years investing in young people who will be able to make a valuable contribution to society from that moment on, because they have life-saving skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u67	I understood that very well. That was in the initiative. That's what Mrs. Van Schaik just said. I'm more concerned with the list of things we can't all oppose. It's almost infinite. We all get offers here by email: gosh, the ggz can teach about mental health in schools, dermatologists can teach about skin diseases, the rescue brigade can teach about rescue swimming. We cannot oppose all of that, and yet we are not going to impose it on all of us from The Hague. The difference isn't that I don't think this could be useful. That could be very good. I don't think this one thing at a school makes the difference between a teacher who gets upset or not. The question is whether the infinitely long list of things that we cannot oppose contains things that we can all ask the Minister about: Minister, just write that down in the curriculum and then we'll sort it out. So how long is that list of Mrs. Simons?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u68	Nor am I opposed to the examples mentioned here. Frankly, I do not see why it would by definition be a problem at the front if education were given more access or at least access to experience experts and expertise, and helped to make the tasks entrusted to them by The Hague easier to carry out. Your question may be justified, but my answer is: no, there is nothing against it. Nor do I have any difficulty in thinking that we should bring in more expertise from outside the school than that brings our society forward, as in this case where it really is about life-saving skills, which can be of service not only to the person himself but also to the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr. Peters, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u70	Very briefly, then, Mr. Chairman. I think I can agree with Mrs Simons when she says that access to this knowledge must be available for those schools. I agree. If I was a school director, I might as well think this is a good idea. But the key question is whether we should write and oblige all of this, this very infinite list, through the minister in the curriculum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u71	I still think that is a fair question. Of course, you can discuss obligations or facilitations. I think that we can at least begin to facilitate an equivalent offer. Let me come back to what the colleague from Volt said earlier. The situation we now have is that one school, which has a rich budget, for example because hundreds of euros are charged in voluntary parental contributions, is able to offer these kinds of lessons, and not the other school, whereas often those students, however harsh, can end up in situations where this is vital. So you can say 'I object to the obligation', but I hope you have no objection to facilitating in such a way that all schools at least have access and have the opportunity to offer it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u72	Thank you. Then we can go straight to the Minister's answer. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the pleasure of being invited here at a time when such beautiful maiden speeches are being held. I got that lucky yesterday, and I got that lucky again today. Indeed, it is striking that there are a lot of personal backgrounds in the inspiration to do this work. I think that's the most beautiful drive you can have. There is also a very clear vision of what one wants to bring in, even when it comes to education. It is, of course, important that this can be reflected in the debates. So my heartfelt congratulations to the three people who made their maiden speech today. Madam President. Through you, I would also like to express my appreciation for Mrs Van Schaik, who was here on behalf of the Red Cross Netherlands. You were actually having some kind of maiden speech. You spoke for the first time in the Chamber on behalf of your organisation. I'm standing here on behalf of the cabinet. Know that our appreciation for the Red Cross is incredibly great. The Red Cross was founded in the Netherlands in 1867 and has such a deeply rooted place in our society; that is really something very beautiful. The same goes for the first aid. There are local departments in all kinds of places in the Netherlands. Those have become a bit less in recent years. This has to do with the fact that people are less committed to organisations and want to do less structural work. On the other hand, we also know from the Red Cross that there are still a lot of volunteers offering their services to society at all times. In this corona time they are asked a little less, but we see them at the festivals, the evening four days and you name it. I think each of us also knows a lot of people who have been active in it or are still active in it. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, this initiative is an initiative in which we need to discuss with each other what we can and cannot do with it. A number of Members of Parliament have rightly pointed the finger, I think, at the fact that a great deal is already being asked of our education, and that there are also a lot of things on the wish list that one would very much like to put back in education. I once asked my ministry: is there a list of them? I can tell you that there are more than 100 subjects which are said to be: could that not be given a place in education? For a large part, therefore, there are all kinds of social questions, looking at education and saying: could that not be resolved there? Sometimes that thought is behind it. Of course, this also happens from the knowledge that all those children's feet go to the schools and you can reach all the youth of the Netherlands with that. Of course, that's true. But that also gives a bit of a double feeling. First of all, we can see that education in this corona age already has its hands full, in any case in order to allow it to continue. Fortunately, it now takes place for a large part physically, but there is also a lot of distance education. We also know that these corona times have caused delays that go right through all sectors. Education will also have its hands full in the coming years to overcome these delays. In addition, there are some of you who have pointed this out: the quality of our education, the basic skills. That goes beyond primary education alone. I give it to Mr Van Meenen: we often look at primary education for a sec. But it also applies to secondary education. In the State of Education, which was again presented last week, there are nice developments, but also great concerns. The aim has always been to try to relieve the burden of education and to put a little more focus on the goals we set for education over the past period. After all, we are truly convinced of the disadvantages of this overload and sometimes the lack of focus. There is, of course, a great deal of difference between schools; that too is something that is possible in our country within the framework of freedom of establishment. But that focus is just really very important and is also a common thread in the discussions we have had with each other about the curriculum: more focus and try to reduce overload. Then I'm looking at this proposal. Some of you said that this really does not require anything extra from education. The moment you add something to the curriculum, that requires a little more of the education, because then that is an integral part of the assignments you give to the education. Then it is also the responsibility of education, also because there will have to be qualified teachers who give the lessons in it. So that is an additional burden on education. Is it bad to talk about that? Of course not. I haven't heard from you about that, but at the moment it's already a mission for education in VMBO. In the VMBO there is a professional elective, called "Prevention of Accidents and First Aid." At the moment, therefore, this subject is already being addressed in education. That couldn't be given in three hours. That's what 100 hours stands for. I can advise you, if you haven't done so yet, to take a look at the final terms. This includes everything that the Red Cross rightly calls for attention to be given to skills: resuscitating, applying an aned, assessing, for example, or dealing with distress or already dealing with it. In short, all the skills are in there. It is at 100 hours and it is given by qualified teachers. This is offered at all levels in basic vocational education, vocational training and mixed learning. In addition to the elective entrepreneurship, this is one of the most popular subjects. It is true that there is a great interest among young people in this type of subject, as Mrs Van Schaik has pointed out. That also makes sense, because this is getting very close. She mentioned the example of Ruben. I don't know how he learned those skills. He might have been on the VMBO. Given the age, I don't think it's possible that he chose this course, but of course there are many who have acquired these skills and are inspired by them. Mr De Hoop rightly pointed out that there could be a spark if you are already confronted with this in your education and get it. That can indeed be the nurses and doctors of the future, but even if they are not, these are just very nice skills you can apply, not only if you are a volunteer of the Red Cross but also if you walk on a shopping street and if someone gets unwell there. If you have those skills, you can just help someone. Mr. Chairman. To be very clear in the direction of the Chamber: the cabinet does not feel like including this in the curriculum. We do not see room for this, not even in the context of the discussions we have had on the curriculum, but not in the context of the tasks that education is facing. The cabinet sees room and also wants to give room for the next, and I can say that there have been some discussions with the Red Cross on this. Schools could choose to do this within the framework of the offer they can make through an elective or could make it part of what Mr Van Meenen has his "rich school day" category for. But you also have the Healthy School program, of which RIVM is ultimately the programme holder but in which VWS is also involved and in which a number of activities can also take place in the school to further promote that healthy school. If the Chamber so wishes, the Cabinet is prepared to carry out further research into this in order to see how we could actually facilitate schools. I think that's a good word. That is also the definition used by the only two political parties that have it in their programme. That's what I was given, because I didn't go through them all. The VVD also talks about "getting opportunities." So there's no obligation in that either. The SP, which is not taking part in this debate, talks about "facilitating." This also fits in with the offer I would like to make on behalf of the cabinet to see how we could support schools, without compromising the main mission, the basic mission they have and the enormous tasks that education stands for, not only today but also tomorrow. Once again, the cabinet is very willing to continue to do so, provided that your Chamber so wishes, of course, because you know that we are like laundry in your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u74	I would very much like to talk a little more about facilitating the word. Facilitation could mean letting all schools know that they are welcome to take advantage of the offer made by the initiators of this citizens' initiative. But I am actually very curious how the Minister himself interprets the word facilitation in this context. Spacious, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u75	In the way in which Mrs Simons has formulated it, we can do it now. The first aid can, so to speak, already report to a school and say: we have an offer for you; do you want to use it? This can be done in the form of guest lessons and possibly outside school time. In short, that possibility is already there. As a cabinet, we don't have to do anything about that. It goes exactly as Mr Peters said. There is then a school leader who, together with his team, will see whether it fits or not and can make a choice. What the cabinet would be able to facilitate, is the following. Firstly, we can see whether we can bring this issue to the fore in education. I just indicated it's a wanted elective in vmbo. Mrs Westerveld asked how much is being used. We know that already over 8,000 students choose such an elective at all these different levels. So they're making use of this. There might still be a world to be won if you brought it to your attention a little more. Then maybe it could be a bigger group. We are also willing to discuss with the SLO whether we can no longer work at the level of teachers, for example by making more targeted hand-outs, to include the possibilities that a school may see in a didactically responsible way in the curriculum. That is, once again, a choice that must be made by a school. I hope that the teachers and the students will also be actively involved. Further consideration could also be given to how, if interested, we could strengthen teachers' skills in this area a little further. That's about three possibilities. Don't think about it too easily, like you're just doing this. It doesn't really have a very natural place in education at the moment, apart from this elective. So you're really gonna have to do something for teachers in there. Again, if one wants it, you could offer it. Those are a few thoughts I can share with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mrs Simons, before I give you the floor, I would like to ask Members to do their interruptions in two. I ask that because of the time, because we still have an hour and there is also a second term to come. I would therefore ask you to be brief and concise and preferably in two. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u77	It's been noted. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to mention my concern about schools which may have just too much to worry about. Those schools will say: oh, that's a nice offer and that it's being facilitated, but we have so much concern that we don't get it. Those are exactly the schools that have been mentioned before today, which are already feeling pressure in all kinds of other ways. It would be a pity to say that we are going to facilitate all schools, but we are still running the risk of those schools being left behind again. Moreover, I am very pleased with your offer and with these ideas which, I presume, pass by top of mind. But could we also ensure that those schools don't keep dangling at the bottom again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u78	Eventually, the school balance has to be made. The school knows what his assignment is. Schools also know what huge challenges they face at the moment, including the concerns we have about basic quality, about what we consider to be the core of education and about the commitment that needs to be made to it. Besides, we're coming out of a corona time right now. That is really the main task of education. But if one sees space and possibilities and is interested, even among students, in doing something with them, then it is very nice that one has something in one's hands, so that it can also be applied quickly. You mentioned swimming lessons as an example, but I would point out that they are voluntary. Swimming lessons aren't everywhere. Traffic classes are required by law, swimming lessons are not. There is also a personal responsibility for parents and educators if they consider something very important. They have the opportunity to get their children acquainted and also to give training in these skills. We must therefore be careful that we now put all the spotlight on education and expect everything from it. On the one hand, it is a great compliment for education, but on the other hand it cannot be achieved in that way either. So let's keep looking at that width very carefully, which I also know the Red Cross does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u79	There aren't many citizens' initiatives that make it to the Chamber. This is one of them. It didn't happen overnight. This had a lead time. As far as I am concerned, it could have been investigated earlier, especially where 91% of pupils are in favour of it, how it can be applied, from when and under what circumstances. Yet here I hear from the minister towards society that has managed to get all these signatures and get all that support, now the signal: we are not going to do it. That is also why, I think, there is a great deal of distrust between The Hague and the country. When a citizens' initiative reaches the Chamber, it would be better to consider how to deal with it in greater depth in advance. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u80	I have the impression that Mrs Gündoğan has not listened very carefully to what I said. There has indeed been a conversation in the past period. It's been going on for a few months. So there are good contacts from the Ministry with the Red Cross, but it is a citizens' initiative addressed to the Chamber and then it is also important to hear from your Chamber and get your weight. Now's the time. You waited as a chamber to put it on the agenda. There will have been reasons for that. It has been on the agenda a few times before that it would come to it, but this is only when it is being dealt with. So we have also waited nicely for that to eventually respect the primacy that the Chamber has. I would also like to say that I am not removing this initiative. I also think it is important that we look at what is possible here. I've already indicated that it's even got a place in the vmbo. I don't know if you knew that, but that's the reality. After your Chamber has given its opinion on this matter, we want to look very seriously at how we can proceed with what the initiative is intended for in order to broaden that knowledge. I have only been very clear about where we stand: not as a hard obligation in the curriculum but in a different way if schools want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u81	Not as a hard obligation, but if Ruben hadn't been able to do what he learned, his father would have been dead by now. I'm gonna put a personal shit in the bag right now. My son doesn't have a father, although for other reasons. These kinds of stories can be prevented. Children can be prevented from missing a parent. Children can be prevented from missing an uncle or a boyfriend. This can be prevented! We are not talking about frivolous things here. We're talking about saving lives here. This is something very important. This should and should be given more attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u82	If people are going through that, it's horrible. If as a child you experience that your parent falls away at some point, for whatever reason I have also experienced it in my own life, that is terrible. But we need to be careful here. In this case, if certain skills were to be taken into account in first aid but there are more to be mentioned than would be taught in education and not as a hard obligation to be included in the curriculum, it could not be so, and that is actually what you indirectly say that the education, where the politics is the client, would then be the culprit of. That does not seem to me to be a fair or fruitful way of talking about this issue. Because if so, all swimming lessons must be required immediately. And if you want to do self-defense, you should, so to speak, include that in education, because then everyone, young and old, can use it and it can be applied if they come into a situation where it can be applied. So then you can make a whole list, but I don't think this is the way we should talk about this issue. Let us look at these talks with each other in a good way. How can we also ensure that more young people are confronted with this, including in education? But it's a broader responsibility than education alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mrs Gündoğan, I'm going to say no. I just said to Mrs Simons in half, too, so I'm sorry. Mr. De Hoop. I saw Mr Peters for a moment, but he sat down again; cap on, cap off. I would also ask the Minister to be a little more concise in his reply. Mr. Hope, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u84	I think the Minister also realizes that the whole Chamber recognises that there is a huge amount on the board of education. But we also realize, as Mrs Gündoğan just said, that this has been very widely behaved. We all know that it really costs a lot to get such a citizens' initiative here. We also know how difficult aid workers are at the moment. I also mentioned in my term the violence that is being used against aid workers; that is really horrible. That is why I also said that it might be good to go into consultation with the VWS Minister to talk about this as well. Let's also see what it can mean for that. So, despite the fact that the whole Chamber shares the concern that there is a huge amount on the board of education, I really call on the Minister to look at what we can do to the maximum, especially at the preventive significance of aid workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u85	I just promised we'd explore that further. Then there are also connections with VWS, which goes without saying, but also with RIVM when it comes to the Healthy School. So at that point, if your Chamber so wishes, we will also take further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u86	Just keep your hat on. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u87	Yeah, but hat on, and also to get a little clarity. In my opinion, the Minister is quite clear: as far as I am concerned, we are not going to include it in the curriculum; first aid is important, but it is up to the schools to do it. As a maximum handout to the Chamber which considers this to be very important, you are actually saying that you can do three things about it. One is that you can call the schools and say it's very important. Two is that you can order the SLO to take teaching material; that's right. Three is that you could give training for teachers if they all ask for it. I think that is a very nice way to make everyone go home happy, but to say 'we're really not doing it'. I'd be in favour of that, but I'm still asking for clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u88	No, I really think that's an incorrect summary of what I said here. I'm quite clear about what we're not doing. At least that's not what the Cabinet wants. Your Chamber also has a move, there is a second term, the Chamber can give its rulings. We don't want to include this in the curriculum. I have put forward arguments for this. What we do want to do is to look further at how we can bring this more to the attention of schools if they want to have something in their hands that is useful to them. Then, among other things, SLO can help in this, not directly with teaching material but more with whatever the concrete points are, whatever goals you have to think about in education and what we expect from teachers. And I said that this could also be part of the Healthy School; I missed that in your list. This is not just a piece of cake, it is a very important addition, also for schools, and it can also be a nice way of helping this initiative not through the curriculum but in a different way and also to serve the important goals that come with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u89	Mr. Peters, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u90	I did not mention the Healthy School in my summary. The Minister did mention it, so I apologize; there were indeed three instead of two and a half. In any case, it is very clear to me when the Minister says that if schools want it, we can support them, but we are not going to include it in the curriculum. That's a clear message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u91	Are you almost at a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u92	I believe that I have answered the questions, so I do not think your concern that it was so extensive has been entirely necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u93	Okay. We shall then proceed to the second term of office, with Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Nice to just stand here after my maiden speech like it's the most normal thing in the world. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his contribution. I also like that he's so clear about that. So: compliments to the Red Cross, as I said myself, but at the same time clear not to add it to the curriculum. I can follow him in that, too. We all have the struggle here that the basic quality needs to go up and whether or not this is the time. At the same time, you are willing, which I find very hopeful, to facilitate this initiative. You mention a number of examples in which this can be done. It is also right that Mr Simons, in the event of interruption, asked how non-binding that would be. I have a motion to fill that out and to help the Minister a little bit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that first aid knowledge and skills help young people to intervene quickly in emergency situations and that this can save lives;]] [[noting that first aid knowledge and skills are lagging behind in the Netherlands and that there is now no natural time to acquire these skills;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out a review in cooperation with the Red Cross and various educational parties, such as the VO Council and teacher groups, to consider how best to transfer first aid knowledge and skills in the short term within secondary education, and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Westerveld, Mr De Hoop and Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35565-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we all recognized again today how much there is on the sign of education. This also means that we need to think in the coming years and understand that we need to invest much more in education, structuralally, so that there can also be room for this kind of citizens' initiatives and also for children to come into contact with sport and culture. That is indeed important if you do not get it from home. I believe that Mrs Michon's motion of the VVD, which we have co-signed, is a constructive way to see how we can handle this citizens' initiative properly. I hear the Minister's words and I also understand very well that he says that there is a huge amount on the plate of education. Let's all see what we can do to do this right, because that's important to all of us. Unfortunately, we can all get something very annoying. First aid in education can help us all, so let's take it constructively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u96	Thank you. Mrs. Gündoğan, Volt? Mr. Van Meenen? Mrs. Simons? No. Then we came to the end of the second term of office. There's been one motion filed. I see the Minister is already standing up, so I'm giving the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u97	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its clear contribution in the second term. I repeat my appreciation of the Red Cross for everything they do. Again, let there be no misunderstanding about that. Even if you do not fully agree with the route towards the curriculum, this does not diminish a gram of the rating or the commitment to see what else is possible. This brings me directly to the motion, by which the Chamber asks for further exploration to be carried out with the Red Cross and other educational parties, some of which are mentioned and of which, fortunately, the teachers are also part. If this motion is passed, I am prepared to do so. Then we can also build on the first work we have done, taking into account that this would be possible. We'll do our best to finish that before the summer. I'm assuming that the quality of the room is the most important thing. If it's not quite ready to present before the summer, I'll let your room know. But again, the commitment will be to see if we can achieve that before the summer. Then I can give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u98	The minister's buying some time before it's summertime. I would like to emphasise that we really need to keep this going. We are explicitly asking for this to be made possible in the short term, but if it were to be September, it would be a problem for my group g.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u99	I would like to thank Mrs Michon for this addition. I say it very consciously, because at the moment all the efforts are focused on the National Education Programme and its effects. There's really a lot of work to do. Again, if we can, we will not fail and you will have it. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Hoop pointed out an aspect that is linked to this: the financial situation. Even though he is just a Member of Parliament, Mr De Hoop will not have escaped the fact that the cabinet that is now outgoing has invested heavily in education in recent years, especially in comparison to the cabinet that was before it. It goes without saying that, at the moment of financial consequences, we will have to face each other. There will always have to be acceptable cover that will not be at the expense of any other commitment we have to education. That too will have to be an aspect of the considerations that will have to be made in the coming period. Mr President, I can conclude with this second deadline as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the debate on this citizens' initiative. It's inspired me again. I got a first-aid degree a long, long time ago on a blue Monday, but I'm gonna go see if I can get an update on that. I see inviting hands from the lodge, so that's gonna be fine. In this way, I would once again like to thank the initiators for having this subject on the agenda of the Chamber. Thank you to the Minister and my colleagues, also for the three beautiful maiden speeches.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-22-tweedekamer-5.u101	We will vote on the motion tabled on Tuesday 11 May, after which I will be happy to inform the initiators of the outcome.
