ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on chromium-6. I welcome the Secretary of State for Defence, the MPs, the viewers at home and the people in the public gallery. We have eight speakers. I shall first give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP. I would like to agree with Members that we can ask each other four questions in the first term, and then also four questions or comments to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. "We're done with DOD, and that's too bad, because we've worked there our whole lives." That is what a number of participants said last week at a hearing on the subject we are discussing this afternoon, namely working with chromium-6 paints. A life-threatening substance, carcinogen, that thousands of defense personnel have been working with over the past few decades. The Secretary of State has had extensive research on this by RIVM. The SP has also investigated it twice: I myself as a former spokesperson and now again as a spokesperson and my predecessor, Mrs Karabulut. Two publications are also available on the SP website. That hearing last week was very impressive, as was the meeting we just had. The Secretary of State was kind enough to be there as well. I appreciate that very much. There are currently about 20 former defence officers sitting at the Square in a room watching this debate. They are very involved and have the Secretary of State put the fire to the wind. I couldn't do better myself and ask her to please make a proper arrangement. If you go into this subject, you won't get away from the comparison with the supplement scandal. People have also been crushed by the government. The D.O.D. knew chrome-6 paints were dangerous, but they didn't say that. There are countless examples of leaders in the Defense Department who allowed their people, who are now on the Square, to work with this substance and did not say that this was dangerous. A painful example: then there were Americans who were American depots where they worked and they wore the best suits and had the best materials. Then the Dutch employees asked: why can't I get a suit like that? Then the supervisor said, "You can keep your mouth shut, and if you open your mouth again, you can leave. There's the door. You should be glad you got a job. Go get a mouth cap at the hardware store." That cost 2.5 guilders at the time. It's really too scandalous for words, and it makes you quiet. One of the employees made a very sharp comparison and said: suppose you buy a car at the garage, which is said to be in good condition. You're gonna find out the brakes are broken and you're gonna hit a tree. Then we'll be furious at that garage owner and we'll sue him. My question to the Secretary of State is: why don't we do that to the Defense Department, if there were leaders who knowingly put their people in danger? What's the difference? What struck me, also in the meeting just now, is that people say: it is very good that chromium-6 has been looked at, but there are many more substances dangerous. There are even 5,000 dangerous substances that DOD used to work with, such as benzene. You have seen the examples. These people quite rightly want that to be looked at as well. I'm asking the Secretary of State if there's any way to investigate that. There are two problems with the present compensation scheme created by the Secretary of State. Firstly, the burden of proof. It's still very painful that you, as a former employee, have to prove that you've worked with these substances for years and that the DOD still has the room to say, "Yes, but we don't think that's convincing. Your illness isn't on the list, so you won't get compensation." I find that very painful, and I think that the DOD should be generous with the compensation. The second point is the height. The fee is called a tip by many people. It's about a few thousand euros. They say, "That comes down to 50 cents a day." Can't it go up? Make a generous damages fund, because these people are fucked up like crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks. There's gonna be a little cleaning first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also speak for the PvdA. It was already known that Defense personnel had been exposed to the danger of chromium-6. Research carried out by RIVM now shows that there may have been exposure to chromium-6 at all Defence sites, and not to a limited number, as was previously reported. People who worked at the Department of Defense between 1975 and 2015 are 850,000 people who have to fear for their health if they have had to work without protective equipment. RIVM says that's roughly half of it. That fear affects a human being. The list of conditions that you may experience due to exposure to chromium-6 is spicy. Diseases like cancer can turn up years later. It must live with that fear alone is in itself a form of injustice that has been done to these people. GroenLinks and the PvdA have therefore long been critical of the benefit scheme for former defence workers exposed to chromium-6. Unlike the regulations drawn up by the municipality of Tilburg and the NS for municipal workers who are also exposed to chromium-6, the Ministry of Defence does not pay a penny until someone has actually become ill. In doing so, the DOD denies that the health concerns of this group of people are already suffering in themselves. Why is the Secretary of State not prepared to pay €7,000 net to anyone who has had to work with chromium-6 without adequate protection? In addition, we are critical of the compensation for material damage if a disease is caused by working with chromium-6. Defense then pays €3,750, regardless of the actual costs and lost income that apply to this victim. If victims have more damage, they should go to court, it's defense's attitude. As far as GroenLinks and the PvdA are concerned, that attitude is not acceptable. Defense has fully consciously exposed employees to infectious agents. An employer with good decency should then bear all disease-related costs and should not get rid of them with a reference to the court. Then why does the Secretary of State choose this? Some former employees of the Defense Department have now died of the consequences of working with chromium-6. For them, the benefit scheme is too late. GroenLinks and the PvdA have difficulty with how the next of kin are treated. They cannot claim most of the compensation, i.e. for intangible damage. They only receive €3,750 in material compensation plus compensation for the funeral. With this, the Defense Department seems to ignore the intangible suffering of the next of kin. In a previous letter, the State Secretary states that opening up the benefit for intangible damage to survivors would lead to far-reaching precedents. I would ask the Secretary of State to go into that again. Why is creating a precedent so undesirable? What is wrong with the precedent to compensate survivors of employees who have died as a result of the government for intangible damage? Finally. The civilisation of a government can be read out in the way it deals with people she has suffered. The supplementing affair "the SP' referred to there as well as "the SP' is a great test of competence, but chromium-6 doesn't do much for it. It is only when the government shows its willingness to pay generously for suffering that we can give people the confidence that there can be no repetition in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. No regulation and no amount of money can remove the suffering of the chromium-6 victims or their next of kin. The VVD therefore considers it right that they now have a system that is easily accessible and that does not impose unnecessary procedures on the victims with regard to the taking of evidence. Whoever has worked with chromium-6 and has a disease that is causally related to it is eligible. It is valuable that, together with former employees, lawyers, trade unions and independent scientific researchers of the RIVM, DOD has worked hard on a quick, joint solution for former employees, based on the Dutch injury compensation law. The VVD attaches great importance to the fact that some of the RIVM's assumptions have worked in favour of a quick handling for employees. The victims have already suffered too much, and in the previous mode of action, the Defense seemed to have the military employability prevail over health. That's a way of doing things that, looking back, didn't fit the defense. The safety of the staff must be paramount. This is not only a question of good weapons, good practice and good equipment, but also a question of good protection, of security awareness in the way of working. I'll get back to you on that. And it's also a question of education, for example via e-learning that you can easily consult, rather than large, thick, illegible manuals. Unfortunately, I have heard stories about such manuals. A similar pragmatic approach and collective regulation could also be followed for other major occupational diseases. In doing so, of course, everyone remains free to make additional claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u7	I mentioned that last point myself. This afternoon I also noticed that the Defence staff said: chromium-6 is one, but there are so many other substances that we have worked with, such as benzene and countless others. Isn't it at least our duty to see how these people can be helped? Otherwise there will also be a little arbitrariness and we will get a bit of a selective arrangement. For the consequences of chromium-6, we're going to do something, but for people affected by all those other substances, we're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u8	I think we should be careful with great qualifications such as "random." Especially in the case of chromium-6 there was a very impregnant and intrusive problem. That problem has been on the table for a long time. For example, compare it with problems with asbestos. For chromium-6, the problem has now been picked up. For chromium-6 there has now been a low-threshold regulation which means that you no longer have to allow people to go through a time-consuming, individual legal procedure. So that's the quick, low-threshold scheme. I really think that the coming of this is a gain, and I also think it is good that this has been worked hard, carefully and as jointly as possible. That's about chromium-6. But Mr Van Dijk is right to point out that there may indeed be concerns about other substances and other occupational diseases that may be related to them. The cabinet sent a letter about that. It says that there has been a "explorer"; there is all beautiful jargon in that letter. It also says that there is now another 15 minute maker, and that there will be an institute. There, too, we are simply going to look very carefully at a system that is easily accessible, if it is appropriate for a particular occupational disease. And, I'm sorry to say that when people talk about "dangerous substances," they're always about dangerous doses, a dangerous exposure to such a substance. It is only with such a dangerous exposure that a substance becomes dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u9	Clear. I think the Secretary of State also knows Anita's story. She's a widow. Her husband died of colon cancer. He worked for a long time in Defense, and he could do whatever he wanted, but he didn't qualify for damages. I find that unbelievably painful. So all these men said this afternoon: we have worked with so many other substances. Can I conclude from Mr Van Wijngaarden's reply that he says: yes, we should indeed look at that through the new regulation that has been put in place? I think that's from Social Affairs. Because these people are crying out for help, and I think we have a duty to help them. Do you really want to think about a solution for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u10	I think that this cabinet, which is now outgoing, has set out a way to see how we can avoid unnecessary legal proceedings in the Netherlands. You don't want to do "I'm sorry" in English "I'm sorry" in addition to "injury." People who have suffered, you don't want to go through a procedure like this again. That is why I welcome the fact that Social Affairs has now stated: 'Hey, we are working on an institution which also looks at occupational diseases to see if there is a suitable and necessary system, and where there is scientific evidence and so on, there can also be an easily accessible regime for those people.'
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u11	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u12	In this sense, I hope that chromium-6 can serve as an example for the approach taken by the Secretary of State. I really want to compliment her for that. I don't think it's news that we at the VVD are in favour of learning mistakes. I also think it is important that we look at other countries in this regard. Several armed forces sometimes face the same problems. I challenge the cabinet not to solve questions of a universal nature soloistically if another military force may have already come up with another solution. Whether that was the case with chromium-6, I cannot entirely judge. I hear fluctuating sounds about that. We have received sounds that, in general, an American soldier can apply smoothly for protective equipment. How does the Secretary of State view this? Let me take an example. What if I work at the Department of Defense? I ask my superior for a guard and my superior says, "Oh, don't complain, I don't think it's necessary." If I keep whining, you'll get that proverbial coat rack at the end of the hall, because then you can just go. After all, you're a pain in the ass. That's how it happened at the time with chromium-6. Who's to tell us this can't happen again? I want the Secretary of State to reflect on that security culture and whether it really is enough. Then I come to my own risk for recognized chromium-6 victims. The VVD believes that it should be compensated if care costs are linked to an approved chromium-6 disease. Like, for example, the nebuliser for someone with airway problems. How, according to the Secretary of State, are these costs covered in the scheme designed? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. What has happened, however desirable, cannot be reversed. It is therefore up to us now to ensure that this does not happen again. I would like to express my appreciation for the numerous measures taken by the Defence Department to reduce risks and introduce more protective measures. But discussions with staff and a recent report by the Inspector-General of the Armed Forces and the Verbeet Committee show that there are still steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Fritsma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u14	Does the fraction of the VVD agree with me that, if there is some scientific evidence that exposure to chromium-6 has led to a particular disease, there should be proper compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u15	I find that question, in general, a little too simple to say yes or no. I imagine Mr Fritsma would like to hear that here. We've had a briefing in which scientists from the RIVM, not the least, were present. What they have made clear there is that even in doubt about causality, so the link between the disease and working with chromium-6, the benefit of the doubt has always been given to the victims. I think that was the right basic attitude. That method has been followed, and I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u16	That is not the case. I have here a letter from the cabinet of June 23rd. There the symptoms are divided into four categories. Only the diseases mentioned in the first two categories
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u17	I don't think we should caricature the work RIVM has done here. If there is sufficient evidence that there is a causal link between one and the other, then the right to compensation arises. But there's got to be enough evidence. If a single clue, according to the scientists, they have studied for it, we have not; I am not really too skinny as evidence, then I accept it. I'm not gonna sit in their seats. I never try to do that, and I'm not gonna do that here today. Sorry if that disappoints Mr Fritsma. On point O: I think it is very good that this list is not static but dynamic. This is very common in science, because new evidence can always emerge. I remember when my GP used to sit with a cigar when I was a kid at the office. Then you were received there in no time. That's what we thought was perfectly normal at the time. And it wasn't that long ago. Scientific insights about things also change. That is why the same applies to that list. I don't think that's so crazy at all. That's a good thing. This means that if there is sufficient evidence that there is a link between one and the other, it will be added to the list and there will be a right to compensation for the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u18	I'm gonna have to ask you one more question. That could take years! That's the problem. You are right to say that this list is not static; there may be scientific evidence that other diseases are caused by chromium-6. Now there are a lot of people who have a disease that happens not to be on that list, and then your answer to those victims is: the list is not static; maybe your disease will come on in ten years' time and you will get compensation. We can't solve this problem like this, can we? You yourself say that we must ensure that this does not drag on for years. But this approach is responsible for the fact that it has been dragging on for years. We shouldn't be using that list so rigidly, should we? We must solve this problem once and for all and give these sick people a decent compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u19	I think that Mr Fritsma and I agree. It doesn't have to be rigid. But the system isn't rigid either. Mr Fritsma here pretends that a disease "coincidentally" is not on that list. With this he makes a caricature of the work of RIVM. Yes, Mr Fritsma may laugh, but it was a pity he wasn't at the briefing. That's just the real Chamberwork we're sitting here for as far as I'm concerned. This is the final debate. If he had been in the briefing, he would have heard that RIVM has looked very carefully with scientists from all over the world and with all the literature from specialist journals whether there is a connection or not. If there was insufficient robust evidence for this, and I have already said that the benefit of the doubt has been granted to the victims, and rightly so, you cannot say that something happened or was not on that list. Then you're really busy making a caricature of the work of scientists. I find that a pity, because I do not think it is right to do what we in the Netherlands have the science and institutes like RIVM for. That's what I'm standing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u20	I would like to say to Mr Van Wijngaarden: stop saying 'caricature'. Let me give you one example: the disease of larynx cancer. It's been considered impossible for years because of chromium-6. It wasn't until last year that the disease came on the list. Stop using terms like "caricature." These are very concrete examples. If you had had larynx cancer five years ago and you suspected that was due to chromium-6, you were told: sorry but unfortunately, not enough evidence. It wasn't until last year that the disease came on the list. Why don't you quit qualifying as a caricature? This is a very concrete example, which can also apply to a lot of other diseases. We must, of course, prevent people who may have another disease that may be on the list in ten years' time from having to wait so long, and now give them a decent compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u21	Finally, Mr. Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u22	I think we agree that every day that victims have to wait unnecessarily long, one day is too late. But Mr Fritsma himself, in his example, is also very well aware of the fact that it is simply a case of adding a disease to the list, which gives rise to precisely that right to compensation. I will conclude, Mr President, with one final question. It's about risk inventories. They are not yet being implemented. For example, the use of earplugs in infantry platons shooting exercises is still very limited, as we hear, whereas these shooting exercises can cause hearing damage. Can the Secretary of State undertake unannounced formal or informal inspections on this matter? How are managers going to monitor this and how are they themselves judged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In October 2014, D66 requested a letter from the Minister on the state of the investigation of toxic substances in the Defense Department. It was a start of a long search for what went wrong with chromium-6. In recent years, the Chamber has consistently paid a great deal of attention to the subject. A further extension of the chromium 6-damage scheme was repeatedly requested. Despite the scientific basis and the proper design of the compensation scheme, the Court felt that the scheme did not do justice to the many victims who could not obtain compensation. Unfortunately, we were right about that. In spite of this broad attention, my group regrets that it has taken so long for the chromium-6 victims to receive the attention, recognition and compensation they deserve. The Secretary of State's letter states: "The investigation of all Defence sites also shows that employees were not always sufficiently protected against exposure to chromium-6 and could have become ill." Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State acknowledges that Defence has not always taken sufficient care of a safe workplace. I quote: 'Defension has failed and has failed to fulfil its duty of care as an employer. For this I would like to apologize to all employees and the relatives." Apologies have been made: excuses for the suffering and the scandalous way in which their own staff has been exposed day in, day out, has become ill and has died. The D66 Group thinks that apology is a good gesture, and at the same time it is only right. In what way did the Secretary of State apologize to the employees and former employees of Defense and the next of kin? Have there been any reactions to this? Mr. Chairman. It's a pity RIVM can't carry out an epidemiological study. The idea was that such research provides a broader and firmer scientific basis for knowledge about the impact of hazardous substances on Dutch society. Can the Secretary of State explain what the decisive factor in failing to carry out this investigation is? A more positive message is the fact that the benefit scheme, which has been in force since June 2018 for POMS employees and their relatives, has now also been opened up to the employees of all Defence Locations. How many employees have checked in so far? How does it respond internally to the new findings on chromium-6? Do you notice that it has an impact on the staff and the safety of their working environment? Then there's a question of conscience. How does the Secretary of State guarantee that the other hazardous substances that Defence is working with will not pose health risks in the future, as has happened with chromium-6? Finally, I would like to say that it is of course a good thing that we are having this debate today. As far as we are concerned, however, there is still a crucial part missing, namely the implementation of the amended motion by Mr Belhaj cum suis, on which the Secretary of State set up a committee chaired by Professor Heerma van Voss to answer a number of questions relating to the benefit scheme and to advise the Secretary of State on this matter. This final opinion will be ready by 1 November. My group hopes that the recommendations of this committee will provide a way out of this impasse. I am referring to the impasse in which a lack of evidence of disease, or legal obstacles hinder compensation for the victims. In addition, the research may be a stepping stone for a new risk assessment of dangerous substances, such as chromium-6, which can apply to both the defence and the government as well as to industry. My group awaits the results of this research by Heerma van Voss with interest. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr President, before the order of business, was it four interruptions in two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u27	A total of four questions or comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u28	Four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u30	Okay, you're relentless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u31	This is your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u32	The third, yes. I would like to ask D66 what it thinks of the level and scope of the compensation scheme as it stands. I have heard that you also have a motion and are waiting for it to be implemented. That's fine, but there are people who are already saying that they really think the amount that is being given to them is a slap. Look at other schemes, such as the Asbestos Fund or the scheme in Tilburg for the NS employees. So there are very good comparable examples. You're saying we're gonna stick with this? Or do you say, no, I'm quite willing to look at a more generous arrangement that doesn't really bankrupt the DOD and is really affordable, so that people get more justice? Are you willing to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u33	I can very well imagine Mr Van Dijk's question. It's been a really long time. That is also what I have indicated in my contribution. We've talked about this in the Chamber on a regular basis. I can also imagine Mr Van Dijk now saying: make some speed and are you prepared to look at it? I also believe that we should wait, given the motion tabled by my colleague Mr Belhaj last year, which is currently being carried out, so that we will have the impact analysis before 1 November. Because I think that this will include recommendations that we could work with as a Chamber. So am I willing to look at it? Yes, but I think it is important to include the impact analysis requested in my colleague's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Fritsma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Many defence workers have in the past come into contact with chromium-6, a rust-resistant substance that was added to certain types of paint. The health damage caused by the toxic chromium-6 by many defense workers is really enormous and ranges from stomach cancer to asthma. Although this problem has been going on for decades, chromium-6 victims are still in the process of getting recognition and compensation. They really need to be dragged out from behind the hellhole doors. There is now a research report from the RIVM showing that personnel across the Defence Organisation have been at risk of exposure to chromium-6, while previously only five sites have been targeted. Another crucial finding is that health problems can occur in more function groups than was thought. Think, for example, of drivers and cleaners who were also at risk. This simply means that there are more chrome-6 victims than the ones that have been done justice to so far. So many of those victims or their next of kin who felt like they were in the reeds were just right. Mr. Chairman. It is really high time that all the mistakes made were corrected now. Although the cabinet adjusts the benefit scheme, it is still not doing enough. This is partly due to the fact that people are walking around with symptoms that are not directly associated with chromium-6. I have just said it in an interrupting debate: Defence works with a pre-cooked list of RIVM, which only contains diseases where a causal link to exposure to chromium-6 has already been scientifically demonstrated. This is a very unfair point, because there are, of course, symptoms that are not on that list, but which certainly cannot be ruled out as being caused by chromium-6. I have just mentioned the example of the serious disease of larynx cancer. Until recently, it has never been recognised that this disease may be caused by chromium-6, but it is now clear that there is a link. This shows that the pre-cooked list of RIVM is not satisfactory and is a bad starting point. After all, scientific insight only comes with the years. By the way, we know that RIVM does not always have the wisdom. Mr. Chairman. All in all, it is simply unacceptable that the cabinet should leave sick people exposed to chromium-6 in the cold. They have to hope that their condition will be on that RIVM list one day. Probably in many cases it's too late and they're dead. Until then, until that disease is on the RIVM list, there will simply be no satisfaction. Well, after all these years, that cynical cannot be dealt with with by the chrome-6 victims or their next of kin. It goes without saying that there must be a reverse burden of proof here. I really think everyone should agree on that. If someone is exposed to chromium-6 and has had health problems, it must be proven that those complaints were not caused by chromium-6. If this is not the case, it must be assumed that chromium-6 has caused the complaints and, of course, a proper compensation must be paid in order to do so. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question about height. The pain money varies, I say it out of my head and lies between €5,000 and, up to, €40,000. What's that based on? I also think that on the low side, although I understand that health damage or even death can of course never be linked to an amount. But why was this scope chosen? The PVV thinks that's low. Mr President, concluding. The injustice of chromium-6 must now be resolved once and for all. It is a very expensive duty of the cabinet to ensure that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr. Chairman. After the first signals about the relationship between disease and chromium-6 in 2014, much has happened. Research has been done. This showed that people of Defense could be exposed to chromium-6 at the so-called POMS locations and could become ill if the protective equipment was insufficient. The Secretary of State has apologized for that. For shortcomings in other locations of the Defense Department, she now also apologizes. The SGP finds this commendable. It is an important piece of recognition of the suffering of victims and survivors. RIVM research has taken a long time, but care is very important here. Finally, the conclusions are in, and they are clear. In many places employees could come into contact with chromium-6. Such contact may have contributed to a range of diseases, although of course this does not have to be the case. And it is also clear that employees were not always sufficiently protected. This led to a number of important recommendations from the Joint Commission: extend the existing benefit scheme so that former employees of all Defence sites and their survivors can claim it, pay great attention to the proper implementation of this scheme and give great priority to the safe handling of all kinds of dangerous substances in the future. The SGP is pleased to say that the Secretary of State has been proactively working on this, that the benefit scheme is open to employees from other locations, that the website information pointchrome6.nl has been set up and that people can request a personal consultation. In addition, the further inventory of dangerous substances will be continued in terms of prevention and the Court will be regularly informed. Those are significant steps, but I still have a few questions for the Secretary of State. Can it guarantee that there really is customisation in practice, including for people whose position is outside the formal job list? Are we looking at the work that has taken place in practice? What are the rights and obligations? And how sturdy is such an employee? Will the DOD also provide for the possibility to declare recurring costs, such as its own risk or medication? And does the Secretary of State make sure that the online and telephone portals are really accessible? In other words: if there is a phone call and the phone rings, then there is a real answer. Because we notice: that seems very logical, but for people in trouble we have also seen that in other files........................................................................................................................................................ And I want to have that as a guarantee, as well as that, if that goes wrong for once, a bypass can be arranged. The question of whether or not defence personnel will always and at any time in the future from now on, and that of course should always have been the case, but that was not always the case; we know that we have the protective equipment necessary to prevent exposure to harmful substances directly or indirectly. And I just found the PVV's question about the amount of the fee a good question, which I am also looking at with interest: why this choice of between €5,000 and €40,000, and indeed does it do justice to the situations that are going on? Finally, Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her efforts, and I would like to thank her for the RIVM and all the Defence staff who participated in this investigation. And from now on, let's make real work of justice and satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I shall then give the floor to Mr Boswijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr. Chairman. The suffering that chrome-6 has caused for defense personnel is terrible. And it is also right that the Secretary of State has apologized on behalf of the Defense Department. It's also nice that the RIVM research has finally been completed. Unfortunately, some of the victims have already died. It is too late for them, and that is indigestible. The CDA supports the cabinet response on the basis of the Committee's recommendations. At the same time, we also realise that no regulation will do anything right. However, we still have a number of questions and comments. The round table showed that RIVM had no contact with other countries where chromium-6 is also used. Does the DOD have any contact with other countries? I can well imagine that these countries also have the same problems, and it would therefore be wise, but also a moral obligation to foreign defence personnel, to proactively share our knowledge and experience in this area. What is the state secretary's position in this, and how do other countries deal with this at the moment? It is also good that the list of diseases is dynamic. We are again making an additional plea to stay on top of this, because time for many victims with a disease not yet on the list, for example, is their enemy. And let us, in doubt, say again, I think that this task lies with science as a political coulant with the addition of new diseases. Finally. My colleague Van Dijk has already asked the question: what about other substances? This was also a subject that came on the table several times, especially at the round table. Is this being dealt with proactively, or are we waiting for a new 'professional disease'? Finally, thanks to the Secretary of State, and let us avoid having to deal with this situation more often in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u40	You've come to the end of your speech? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u42	My final question, Mr President. It is right that Mr Boswijk raises this point of the other substances, which may be equally dangerous. The Secretary of State went into that as well, this afternoon, so I can tell him. She said: that's not actually possible; RIVM has looked at that, we don't have these disease histories in the picture, we can't really figure out exactly what has been done and what has happened. That is very unfortunate for those people, because they say: I have also worked with these fabrics; I do not get a refund for chromium-6, but I am sick. Shouldn't we make an extreme effort to see how we can help these people? Shouldn't we be investigating this? Because we can do it with chrome-6, and we've come up with chrome-6 an end, so can't we also see if we can find a solution for other diseases?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u43	Well, of course we had that round table last week. And what I did find striking... Look, there was no debate, of course, but somewhere the Defense staff had some kind of need to debate with the RIVM. And they also asked a number of questions that I thought were: if I had known, I would have already asked RIVM. One of the points was that they said, "We just have those ingredients, or we know they are, so let the RIVM start looking right away using those ingredients." I was sorry that I couldn't ask that question to RIVM the last time, because that was only the round after that. But I'm going to pass it on to the Secretary of State, because I'm genuinely curious about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u44	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that she needs about 15 minutes to prepare, so I'm suspending the meeting until 4.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u45	The sitting will be resumed. I would ask Members to take their place again. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u46	Who's settling in, Mr. Chairman, if you'll give me a moment. Mr President, thank you. And thank you also to Mr Van Dijk as the applicant for this debate. Some of you have already referred to it: this file has a long history. I have received the booklet, which is not yours, but from your colleague, Mrs Karabulut, I also see the policy officer sitting behind it at a meeting in Kerkrade. It was a warm Friday afternoon. I know there's someone in the stands, Mr. Van Es. I'm gonna call that one anyway. Mr Van Dijk has invited a number of people who unfortunately cannot sit in the room, but who are now sitting in a warm room somewhere on the Square watching. I would like to mention one of them, Mr Terwee. Mr Terwee was one of those who expressed himself, because of the fear which arose at a reunion that a number of colleagues had already left them at an early age, but also that several colleagues had illnesses. That was weird. Then they started to ring the bell and asked, "How is this possible? I think it's because of those people... Mr. Van Es might be here because of his navy suit, because that's how he got in. But I think that especially Mr Terwee... then I do a lot of people short, because there are a lot of people behind it. I think we should also thank them. I am thinking also of D66, but also of Mr Van Dijk and then Mrs Karabulut, who have always raised this issue. In that sense, I think, more than you may have realized, it has also had an impact on what has been done. The same goes for all the people involved. In fact, all the speakers have started their contribution with the question: what can we do for the people who have become ill because of the work of chromium-6 in the Defense Department? I was just at the meeting with Mr Van Dijk. That wasn't the first time, by the way. I already referred to a meeting in Kerkrade, organised by the SP. Over the past period, I have been allowed to speak with several people within the Defense Department, with people who have left the Defense Department but also with relatives. It is those personal conversations for which you are doing it, for which you want to work as a ruler and you also want to show that you are taking steps forward. I realize very well that no amount of money or any arrangement will ever compensate for the suffering if you've become ill or if you've lost someone. I am not going to take that away in this debate either. That makes this such a difficult file, because that's actually what you want. Preferably you want to go back in that time and do it all over again. Mr Van Dijk asked me to address the executives. You would prefer to do so retroactively now, because it is simply unacceptable that the readiness, the commitment stood for the health of our employees. It just shouldn't have happened. This has also become very clear from the RIVM report, namely that it did not go well first with the POMS locations, then with all Defence sites. Unfortunately, Corona doesn't allow us to organize physical meetings right now, so we're doing it through webinars. That doesn't stay good, because you can't look anyone in the eye. We have tried to enter into the conversations to answer the questions that are possible, but also to address the feelings that exist and questions such as: how did this happen, why didn't it intervene and what does this mean to me? I hope that this debate will at least help some of those people, in the sense that they feel supported by the Chamber when it comes to the issue. I would also like to tell the House that this subject is not over, because chromium-6 has been used throughout the Netherlands and is still on numerous bridges, rails and so on. So it's a subject that needs our continued attention. I think that that, too, might be that it sounds weird, but the added value of this research has been with the Defense Department, namely the focus on working with dangerous substances. I know that Mrs Huijbregts had a debate last week with Demissionary Minister Koolmees about, among other things, working with dangerous substances. On average, 3,000 people die every year by working with dangerous substances, each of which is too many. This means that this attention to dangerous substances and working with them must be there. That's chromium-6 now, but it's actually much wider. This research within the Defense Department has led me to believe that this attention has also been paid to it and that it has also been taken up more widely in the cabinet, not only in terms of working with dangerous substances, but also in terms of the regulations that exist for that purpose. It is just as well that Mr Van Dijk has requested this debate, because this subject has such a long history. With the publication of the last part-examination in respect of all Defence sites, a period of questions is also closed, including by the Chamber. Have all the questions of all employees been answered? No. Are they all going to be answered in the future? I don't think so either. I hope, however, that this debate will at least give the staff, the former staff and the next of kin the feeling that they are supported not only by the Chamber but also by myself, by what we are doing or what we are going to do. That is what I am standing here for, in order to bring that satisfaction and recognition further. I would like to address a number of specific issues. Among other things, I look back on the RIVM investigation and deal with the questions that have been asked about it. Then a lot of questions were asked about the scheme, i.e. the evidence, the cost of care and the risk involved. That's the next theme. I shall now turn to the regulation on the other dangerous substances, which I have just mentioned, which is being carried out under the direction of Social Affairs. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about personal protective equipment and how it is now regulated. Then I come to the subject of varia, that is just a few questions that have been asked mainly on the basis of 'against'. In general, I would like to say... I have just said that in the direction of Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. I just said her name wrong, excuse me. She asked how they reacted. The POMS sites were the cause, I say also in response to Mr Fritsma. He said it was a limited investigation, first in five locations. No, that was a conscious choice. The signal came from the POMS staff who said after a reunion that they were worried. That's what I just said. Because the signal came from there, because most of the questions were about it and there was actually the most information available, we started there first. We did take a wide look at it first. "We" is in this case the RIVM led by a joint committee, in which under the leadership of Mr. Vreeman both trade unions were represented as well as Defence and employer. We have organised several meetings for employees, former employees and next of kin. For the investigation, more than 2,600 questions have been put on the table, and more than 2,000 documents have been given to the RIVM to look at. This has finally been addressed to a number of research topics in the field of occupational medicine, medicine and legal matters. In order to give clarity, as far as possible and as far as possible, to those POMS employees who have raised this issue first, it has been said that we are starting to conduct the research at the POMS locations. After we finished that in June 2018, we looked further. The reason for this investigation was the signal that it was mostly chromium-6. That's what we're worried about. Mr Van Dijk was then a spokesperson and he recognizes that debate. There was also another substance, CARC HDI. That investigation was completed in 2019 and offered to your Room. That was also related to the POMS locations. Then it was said: now we can go to all other locations to look at non-best POMS locations. I looked at the round table or the hearing, I don't know what it's called now, with Mr Van Dijk's question, which he didn't put in the debate, in my mind: how many people have actually signed up at the Chrome-6 Information Point? That's over 4,000. If you're going to peel off how many employees have worked at the POMS locations, it's estimated that there are between 2,000 and 3,000. From that group more than 1,000 people registered at the Information Point Chrome-6. I don't think so myself. In the past period we have tried to reach those former POMS employees through regional newspapers and through the trade unions and to say: at least register, because then you will get the latest information and you can always see if you can use the coulance scheme. Former Minister Hennis set up the coulance scheme directly at the start of the investigation, precisely to ensure that, pending a long period of the investigation, people could already rely on a benefit scheme called coulance. That was my call. I still don't think it's much. Currently, the number of registrations of non-most POMS employees at the Information Point Chrome-6 is about 3,000. I have already said that in the period between 1970 and 2015, we estimate that around 850,000 employees worked at the Department of Defence. If you look at how many people have registered, I still don't think that much. On the occasion of the publication of the research, we do see that more registrations are added. We also try through road shows, with a nice Dutch word, through the unions and through all kinds of other possible ways to call people to register. It is precisely because of what Mrs Bromet said that you may not be sick yet, but if you get sick, at least you have registered and will be informed if there are new developments. Mrs Van Beuker asked how the internal response had been. We've organized the webinars by military unit. In the Navy about 150 people participated, in the army between 200 and 250 people and in the other parts about 200. You see, it's a limited part that actually participates in the webinars, but they're also online, so people can look at it later. You also asked how I dealt with... In the past period, even before COVID-19, we organised a number of walk-in meetings following the publication on the POMS locations. First of all, two national meetings to explain the report and then we organized low-threshold walk-in meetings in the east and south of the country. Then COVID-19 broke out, so we couldn't organize those meetings anymore. I have indicated that if there is a need, we want to organise it again as soon as we can, because it is often also about people being able to go somewhere with their question, which can be medical, legal or otherwise. We'll try to support that. Then there is Mr Van Dijk's question: why do we not take the executives of that time to court? You have been able to see from both POMS research and from the latest investigation into all Defense sites that it was actually everywhere. In that sense, it was not a leading sec that was involved. You can actually see that people say that it wasn't in order at every Defense site, whether it was about personal protective equipment or the fact that the hall was closed to prevent air vapours coming forward. I have also been asked how it could have come to this. I think it was a kind of culture, in which we accepted it with each other that the readiness and the ability to continue stood first, rather than the concern for the safety of the employees. Eventually, the decision to prosecute is always up to the prosecution, but when I look at the three investigations that are out there, I don't see how I can pinpoint it on a number of executives. I see an organization that has failed to fulfil its duty of care, and that is actually across all locations. As a result, I think it's more the way it was thought, directed and taken responsibility, namely not, than that it can be related to one person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you. Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u48	The Secretary of State just almost put the finger on the sore spot when she said there was "some kind of culture." How would she, looking back, qualify that kind of culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u49	I just can't imagine it. Let me speak on my own. I can't imagine your employees saying, "We're worried, we're doing air measurements, and it turns out it's not right, and you're ignoring it. But it did. How do I qualify? Yeah, I did that because of the apology I made in the letter, but I can't. It's unacceptable. You have an employer to deal with, and that just didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u50	That's looking back. What does the Secretary of State think today? She's been in the Ministry for a while, and she knows the military very well. Are we there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u51	No. That is what I said in the debate on security. I see that considerable progress has been made, including in the context of culture. We have three major workshops at the Department of Defense. The army in Leusden I will give you as an example. I know that three years ago, the commander at the time shut down the place. He was very excited at the time, because that hadn't happened before. But that's the culture we want. We just lifted that commander on the shield to say that's what we expect. If you, as commander of a workshop, have any doubts about safety at any time, then you make that decision, because at that time you are responsible as commander of that unit or of that workshop; that is what we ask of you. I really see a change in that. That's what the Visitation Commission says. It says: when it comes to the security culture among the employees in the Defense Department, we are very positive, because we see that the awareness of commanders, but also of people in the workplace, is there. When it comes to cross-compliance, we're not there yet. We are talking, for example, about buildings and many other things, because I am not just talking about dangerous substances, but about them in a broad sense. No, we're not there yet. Culture can also be improved many times, even when we are talking about social security. That's never finished. I once had that discussion with Mrs Karabulut. When is it ever finished? Well, never! It also changes every time you get new people in. Am I satisfied? No. Should we get better? Yes. This also applies to working with dangerous substances. When I see what catch-up has been achieved in the past period, I am very positive about that. But I'm not happy, because we're definitely not there yet. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to continue the RIVM investigation. Mrs Van Beuker asked what was the occasion. I think that is a good point when it comes to the research itself and to the discussion I had in the room with staff who rightly said: yes, nice that chromium-6, but it turns out that my illness is not on that list, while I have worked with other dangerous substances; what are you going to do with it, Mr Secretary of State? It is perhaps good to mention, also in this Chamber, that we looked at an epidemiological investigation at the request of Mrs Bruins Slot, then CDA spokesperson. It's a very difficult word, that I'm going to shorten it to epi-research. That makes it easier to speak. In addition, you do not look at the dangerous substance itself and reason not from that dangerous substance, but from disease images. If you have these signs of disease, compare the group concerned with a similar group in the Netherlands. Then you can see if there are more diseases among former POMS employees in relation to similar groups within the Netherlands. Then you've got a better picture. Then you don't look at the fabric. Unfortunately, that was not possible. This is due to several aspects. There wasn't one decisive effect, but it was a combination. First of all, there were insufficient data on the function itself, the disease and the way of life. Because life-style also plays a role when it comes to this kind of epidemiological research, or epi-research, inside but also outside of Defense. You want to have a reference group to compare it with. Also missing information on exposure inside and outside the Defense Department. This was not feasible within a reasonable period of time. The RIVM indicated that there was no useful information to be able to do so. I have said several times myself that I would have liked nothing more. That's what I just said to the employees. I think you could have addressed some of the concerns, or rather, some of the questions about diseases. I have also said that as soon as it is possible, the DOD will do so. Currently, RIVM indicates that this is not possible due to the lack of data within the Defense Department, but also outside the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u52	Are you done with the RIVM headline? Maybe it'll be useful to finish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u53	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'll take a look. I think I've already answered some of the questions. Mrs Van Beuker asked how many employees have reported. I have the exact figures in front of me. 4,300 people registered at the Chrome-6 Information Point. Of these, 347 POMS have applied within the benefit scheme, of which 201 have been awarded. The current scheme, which has also been opened to non-POMS employees, has so far involved 400 employees. So that's 400 employees from all defense locations. That was him, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u54	First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the position of the Secretary of State. I am pleased that she has been to the hall and that she has been to Kerkrade before. She's showing herself and she's not running away from the victims. That deserves a compliment. But now the policy, because there are still a few questions to ask. That certainly applies to the latter. The figures show that only a few hundred people actually received compensation. I read somewhere that this is 4.2 million euros. That's not a lard. That's a clear amount if you look at the total defense budget. Then I think that the Secretary of State can do a little more work to better guide people who are just outside the scheme. That is my firm conviction. Mr Fritsma gave good examples of people who do have phenomena, but from whom the RIVM or the counter says: no, you are excluded. I ask the Secretary of State if there is room for her to look at the people who said to you this afternoon: we do not fit exactly in the street of RIVM, but we are sick. Can you do more for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u55	This is actually part of another subject, namely the regulation itself. I'll try to answer you as best I can. There are a number of aspects to this. I'm going to describe a bit of history after all. I think that's good. I also think Mr Van Dijk knows this. The fact that we started with this was, of course, unique, in the sense that, for the first time, a large-scale investigation has actually been carried out with an employer, together with the trade unions, to see if people could have become ill with that employer by working with one particular dangerous substance. In this case, they were chromium-6 and CARC HDI. That was a search, because it was the first time. As I pointed out, we started with a great trickery, by asking people themselves what the questions are and what the documents are. Then we've got a court-martial. This was the content that RIVM did. What kind of work did you do? What could you have been exposed to? What diseases could have been caused by this? That has become the so-called list of diseases. RIVM then did so on the basis of internationally recognised standards, which it always uses. By the way, RIVM also had an internal sounding board group, with opponents and other scientists, to test and validate the scientific research that has been done: go against it, go against it. In the end, a list has been drawn up, in which they have made a classification of diseases. The diseases in the first category may have been caused by working with chromium-6. The diseases in the second category are suspected. There's no hard evidence, but they could be suspected of it. In the third category it is not sufficiently clear. There's no evidence or insufficient evidence there. In the fourth category there are no convincing clues. These are the four categories. Together with the trade unions, we checked whether there were regulations in the Netherlands that we could rely on. For example, we have looked at the asbestos regime and the silicone regime. Those two arrangements were there at the time. We have looked at this in particular. Secondly, we have said that it must fit within the Dutch law on compensation. We have asked the University of Maastricht what it means and what framework conditions should be fulfilled. Another aspect, which was most important, was the recognition of the suffering caused. Finally, we said that if we did it, we should also have objective criteria. So that's what became the RIVM disease list. I believe it was Mr Van Wijngaarden who said that you did not want to discuss it in the end. I can't determine it either. You just want science based on the classification to determine what does and what doesn't fall under it. Normally, you would only bring that first category under an arrangement. Together with the trade unions, we have deliberately chosen to bring that second category, with diseases that may be suspected, under the scheme. Then I asked RIVM to update the list periodically. Mr Fritsma indicated that the list was established for the POMS in 2018. Last year, an actualization hit was made. You mentioned it in a year, but the list was changed after two years. After the summer there will be another update list. I don't know if there's gonna be any diseases. That is precisely why I have asked RIVM to do research every year in fact. That is what Mr Fritsma is actually asking to see as soon as possible whether there is scientific research that says that a disease of category 3, for example, 'insufficient clear', can go to category 2 or category 1. That is the basis on which the scheme is based. I know there's been a lot of discussion. I may now also give a long answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. On the basis of what Mrs Van Beuker has just said, and also in connection with the debate in the Chamber, we have said the following. The frameworks we use together with the trade unions are based on causality. That means you've been exposed to that dangerous substance and you've got a disease. That is the Dutch right to compensation. You must have been exposed and you must have got sick. It's called a beautiful word causality. If you let that go, what frameworks do you use? That doesn't just apply to the Defense Department. It is Dutch law that we have established in this Chamber together. If you wanted something else, what do you have to think about? I am going to use the term 'random', as Mr Van Dijk pointed out to Mr Van Wijngaarden. That's the kind of arbitrariness you want to avoid. You want to be clear on the front and you don't want to be random. So what are these frameworks going to be? That's what Mrs. Van Beuker asked for. Mr. Heerma Voss is doing research right now. In the autumn he comes forward with a proposal. He will indicate the options and their impact. Then the Chamber has an idea of what the options are and what impact they would have if you didn't do all this and set it up quite differently. If the Chamber decides to do something completely different with the Dutch law on compensation, then the same goes for Defence. But I've made this assessment with the unions, based on all the information we had. We had that from the University of Maastricht, but we also asked injury lawyers, professors, how we could decorate this. This was a long answer with a bit of a run-in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u56	I should like to refer to Mr Fried Terwee's question this afternoon. He pointed to the banner hanging there. There were all substances on it: benzene, uranium and so on. Then they all said: how is it possible that a regulation can be made for chromium-6, but not for benzene, uranium and all the other substances? There's even 5,000 of them. I would like to ask whether we can see to what extent it is possible to regulate these other substances as well. I know it's complicated, but I don't think we should abandon people. Would you like to see if that's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u57	Then I'm gonna take a step to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u58	It's a mix of block two and block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u59	I was just about to say that it is anticipating the answer. But it's actually what I started the answer to the interruption. I said that this was much more widely taken up by the outgoing cabinet. I know that I had this discussion with Secretary of State for Social Affairs at the time and now outgoing Minister Van Ark and the trade unions. I think that the trade unions really deserve a compliment in this respect, because they have said that this should not only apply to the defence sector and that this should actually apply to all employers in the Netherlands. The gauntlet was picked up by setting up the Heerts Committee and saying to it: how do we ensure that all those people who worked with dangerous substances, who are exposed to dangerous substances and who have become ill, can rely on compensation? The Heerts Committee gave a ruling on this. I'll get back to you on that, Mr. Chairman, because there's a relationship with the Defense Department. I say it by heart, but I believe that an arrangement will also be consulted by SZW this autumn. This does not apply only to chromium-6, because it is a comprehensive compensation scheme for all employers in the Netherlands. How could you set up that arrangement? I have always said that I commit myself to the results and the consequences for the defence of the Heerts Committee, but also to all its successors. The question asked in the session with Mr Van Dijk concerned epidemiological research, the epi-research. I told him that I asked RIVM to do that and that RIVM says that it is not feasible at the moment. I personally consider the question of how we can avoid such a discussion in the future. On the contrary, I want to ensure that, in the future, we collect data in this way and monitor our people's health in such a way that we don't need to have this discussion when there are questions about other dangerous substances or whatever. Of course, we do so with all the possible privacy safeguards that exist, and I can tell you that that is quite a difficult one in this file. That discussion was still going on this afternoon when it was said: you have certain information, don't you? In the future, therefore, I would like to say that we have kept track of it and we have detected it prematurely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u60	The standard RIVM list of diseases simply does not satisfy. The Secretary of State has just identified two categories that fall within the list. I'd like to mention a category that means you're out of the boat. I quote: "It is not yet sufficiently clear whether chromium-6 can cause this disease in humans. There are some scientific indications that exposure to chromium-6 may cause this disease. However, there is insufficient evidence." That quote is from the letter from the cabinet itself. Of course, it is quite possible that in ten years' time science about someone who has such a category 3 disease and who is now out of the boat, says: now there is enough evidence, so we move to category 2. Then the Secretary of State takes for granted that these sick people will simply never have been satisfied. If there's enough evidence in ten, the Secretary of State will leave those people in the cold. In other words, we really can't work with that RIVM list of standard diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u61	The RIVM list is the RIVM list. It is about the link that is being made with the scheme. In reply to Mr Van Dijk, I have just indicated how the balancing was done, namely on the basis of the Dutch system of compensation. That system is based on causality. "Exclusion" is a very difficult word, but you must have been exposed to that substance and you must have got sick as well. That is the basis for the benefit scheme. That's why I said I want RIVM to keep monitoring this. I want this to be done periodically and not in ten years' time. It should be updated every year. The fact that larynx cancer has been added also shows that RIVM actually adds things. Fortunately, more data on working with dangerous substances, in this case chromium-6, and on what these substances do, will be available worldwide. I want to take a step, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bromet always used the term given by the judge, but people can always invoke an individual claim. This research is based on a group study. We haven't looked at individuals, because you can't; you can't look at 850,000 individuals. From the point of view of speed and clarity, we have therefore designed an arrangement, together with the trade unions. We've looked into it so that a disease could have been caused by working with chromium-6. Category 1 and 2: it could be suspected of it. Mr Van Dijk gave an example this afternoon of a number of workers who said they had become ill, but that their illness was not on the list. They had also worked with benzene, depleted uranium, PX-10; some of these examples were mentioned. In such cases, you can always rely on the individual claim. Because then your individual situation will be looked at. I can't do that in the wider investigation. RIVM can't do that individual investigation either. This is precisely why Mr Fritsma's statement is not correct, because we will look at your case individually. Then it looks at your exposure history, what work you've done, what disease you've got. Then it can be caused by working with several dangerous substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u62	I am, of course, talking about the benefit scheme that is at the heart of this debate. The Secretary of State himself says: RIVM updates that list every year. But that's exactly the big problem I'm trying to point out. 'Cause then you're gonna choose to make it a dragging case. If people are ill and hope that their condition will be on that updated list one day, those people will remain in uncertainty. That's exactly what we're supposed to prevent, isn't it? Surely we must now make an arrangement which, once and for all, does justice to those victims? Well, that's not happening right now. We will still receive letters from chrome-6 victims in three years' time: I am ill, but yes, I am not on the RIVM list, so I can whistle for compensation. That list is updated every year, but for how long? For ten years? So we're gonna be sitting here talking about this problem for another ten years. Or 20 years? Five years? No matter how many years, it's too long. Brief question: what the hell is wrong with that reverse burden of proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u63	We want to make sure that these people... you say: this debate is only about the benefit scheme. No, this debate is also about the individual claims that can be made. Both roads are open. Mr Van Dijk already indicated that we have now been able to do the research on chromium-6. I would have liked to have epidemiological studies done as well. It can't be. But people who are now sick and who have worked at the Department of Defense, whether they are POMS employees, employees who are still working at the Department of Defense or former employees who read RIVM research and say "I did this work" can rely on the benefit scheme when it comes to the diseases that occur. But if they say "I'm just sick and I'm convinced that that's because of working with dangerous substances in the Defense Department," they can also file that individual claim. It will then be looked at, precisely in order to prevent us from talking for years about a benefit scheme. Because then I do not look at the individual situation of an individual. Then I don't look at the work situation, then I don't look at all those dangerous substances. I don't do that until I make the individual claim. That road is always open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u64	One more time, though. Then exactly what the Secretary of State says in her letter is intended to avoid, namely lengthy, lengthy procedures. Now you are actually saying: that benefit scheme does not contain this point, go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u65	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u66	Yes, you do. "Go to court, everyone is free to initiate individual damages proceedings." That's exactly what you wanted to prevent. We are talking here about the benefit scheme that should solve this problem in the first place. Not all these individual court cases; we want to avoid them. Again, what is wrong with the reverse burden of proof? People are sick. What is wrong with the communication: we assume that if you have worked with chromium-6 and you have health complaints, these are caused by chromium-6, unless proven otherwise? Then people don't have to wait for years until they finally end up on an RIVM list. It's just taking too long. For a lot of people, it might be too late. Your list doesn't match.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u68	An individual claim is not a lawsuit. I want to avoid that misunderstanding, because Mrs Bromet said it too. Lots of defense claims... I believe I can now count on one hand how many cases there are in a court of law. So the fact that you file an individual claim doesn't mean you're going to court. That means it's only when you disagree with the DOD, and if it turns out you don't get out with the DOD about the claim you filed that you're appealing to the damage you've suffered. Those are the intangible damage and the material damage. So a claim is something other than a hallway to court. I really want to take that image away from Mr Fritsma. A claim is intended precisely to look at your individual situation, to assess what work has been done and what you may be exposed to and to then assess whether you can be compensated for the fact that you have suffered damage, material and intangible. That's not a courtroom hallway. It's an individual assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u69	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u70	It's the art of always turning around the core of the story. Imagine choosing that individual claim. Am I correct in saying that this RIVM list is also used as a basis for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u71	For working with chrome-6, yes. Only, also that arrangement... You always have room for an individual claim. Even if you rely on the benefit scheme and have received money on the basis of the benefit scheme, you can rely on the individual claim. Only Mr Van Dijk indicated this to all the staff I have spoken to today and other staff and former employees indicate: I have also worked with other dangerous substances. That's why you want to look at the individual claim which dangerous substances they are. So it's not just looking at that RIVM list. Your individual situation is being looked at and an assessment is being made. In that sense, there are a lot of assumptions, we understand very well that people do not have all kinds of historical data.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's why there's not a lot of cases going to court. We always try to get out with people on a custom basis, just when they have become ill and have income losses so that they can no longer work, or when they have suffered emotional damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u72	Your last question, Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u73	The last question. It can also be very short, but frankly, this makes me a little despondent. We have now spent 15 minutes on the difference between the benefit scheme and an individual claim. And what does it turn out to be? In both cases, the RIVM list of standard diseases is used. That's impossible, isn't it? Let's take this seriously. The questions started with the point that the RIVM list is not right. This therefore applies to the benefit scheme and to individual claims, which is precisely the basis for this list. I regret that I need five questions to get this off my chest, because this is the problem. That RIVM list is the problem. Then again the question is: what is wrong with the reverse burden of proof? Because whether you're in that benefit scheme or in those individual claims, you're gonna run into that RIVM list. Too bad it has to come to light so late. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u74	It's in all the chambers. So it's not new news, I'd like to report Mr Fritsma. But the point is that we have a system of compensation rights, which is about causality: the exposure and the illness. That is the framework within which we operate. The Chamber asked me: if you let that go, see which frameworks you can apply. What does that mean, not just for the Defense Department, but much wider? That is the investigation that is under way in connection with the Belhaj motion. That individual claim is meant to look at the individual. The point is that it often leads to... Mr Fritsma says that the RIVM list is no good. That RIVM list is good. Only, he doesn't agree with the benefit scheme. We have chosen, together with the trade unions, not only to look at it as usual. The first category is: may have caused it. The second category is limited evidence, suspected of it. That is what we agreed with the trade unions, but also that these other two categories, namely 'no evidence' or 'insufficient evidence', are not in the scheme. But you are talking about the system we are talking about in the Netherlands when it comes to causality. If there is no or insufficient evidence, then science, with objective criteria, has yet found nothing to show that there is a relationship, a causality. You can say "I think so," but there isn't. So that RIVM list is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u75	Thank you. Perhaps now you can go to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u76	I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman. Part of this debate has also been conducted to see... Mr Van Dijk also asked about the reverse burden of proof. I think I've gone into that when it comes to causality. In that causality it is always important to look at one, the function: what function have you fulfilled? Or better: what kind of work? At the POMS locations we have been able to look very closely at the functions, but the extensive research into all Defence sites shows that it is much more difficult. Two is the duration, because it doesn't matter how long you've been exposed for or you might have gotten sick and so for the condition that's there. We said we'd make it as easy as possible. For example, if you no longer have data in your personnel file but a former colleague can say that you have done that work and you rely on that benefit scheme, then we also consider that sufficient evidence, precisely to prevent... In the round table, you had a participant who said my personnel files are gone. We want to make it as easy as possible for these types of cases. I believe that the problem that Defence has caused, namely losing personnel files, is our responsibility. It's with us. That is why we want to be able to do it instantly on the basis of research that we can do ourselves or what colleagues have said about the person in question. As I said, I think that with the investigation of Heerma Voss, but also with the combination with the Heerts Committee and everything that is now being worked out, a large number of the questions that live in the Chamber can't be looked more broadly, can't you also look at more diseases? It will not be answered so much as it will at least lead to discussion in the Chamber. I think that's going to give handles for a discussion: how do you feel that the Dutch compensation law is in place and on what basis are you going to benefit? Mr Van Dijk said: I just want a good arrangement. That was the great appeal, the core of your speech. In my view, I have gone into this by indicating how we have set it up and what frameworks we have used. They also asked how this now relates to other arrangements. We have taken the asbestos regime and, for example, the silicone regime as one of the starting points to see how it relates to each other. The big difference between asbestos and chromium-6, for example, is that asbestos is very clear. It's called monocausal. The disease you have is directly related to working with asbestos. When it comes to chromium-6, there are a number of diseases. For example, with chromium-6-eczema it is quite clear; the name already says it. That's what you can relate to. But lung cancer, for example, can also be caused by other things. It's called multicausal. In this way it has been looked at, when it comes to the bandwidth used in the scheme, between 5,000 and 40,000. In doing so, account has been taken of the multicausal and the monocausal, and other amounts used in other schemes are also taken into account in the Dutch law on compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u77	But at this point there are many complaints. A lot of victims say it's really a dime. It's €0.50 a day, one of the gentlemen said. That's what it comes down to when you get $5,000 in damages. You're sick as hell. Remember that. You've worked with an employer who hasn't told you that you're working with life-threatening substances, even though they did. That's really unforgivable. Then the Secretary of State comes up with this arrangement. These people all say: look at the Asbestos Fund, look at the scheme in Tilburg. There it is $7,500, I thought. The Asbestos Fund is €22,000. Those are considerably higher amounts. I want to see if the Secretary of State is prepared to look at an increase, to do more justice to those who have been wronged. It cannot be in the sums, is my conviction, because you have paid just over EUR 4 million so far. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u78	Yeah, but don't make a misunderstanding about that. It's not about the amount of money or what's on the defence budget, because that's what you said. It is clearly on a separate budget article, so that the Chamber can see what is happening every year. I also inform you once in a while about the appeals made and how many amounts have been paid. However, let me give you the example of the Heerts Committee. In her research, it is based on an amount of €21,000, for any disease. We have looked at monocausality and multicausality. The severity of the condition has also been looked at. If, as you say, people are dead sick and have only received a benefit scheme and €5,000, I assume it is eczema, for example. Then they can rely on that individual claim, because then they have much more damage. Then you will be individually examined what your damage has been and what amount you can look forward to. When it comes to generic, I really propose to wait this autumn for both the Heerma Voss Committee and for the follow-up of the Heerts Committee by Social Affairs. It looks at generic regulation, not just for Defence, but for all employers in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u79	Here I think that the Secretary of State is really lacking and that she is unnecessarily grocery, if I may put it that way. That arrangement is ultimately a choice. We talked about it last week, too. It can go higher. She can go up. We see that only a few hundred people were eventually granted their claim. There are also a lot of rejections. We can also have a discussion about this. The reverse burden of proof does not want the Secretary of State, so you end up with a very small group, a relatively small group, which gets the compensation. I appeal to the Secretary of State to look at a substantial increase in that amount, because otherwise you will be left with a group of people who are incredibly unhappy with the regulation offered, and I do not think you want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u80	No. I'll give you the numbers, though. There were 347 applications, 203 of which were granted. That's almost 60%. I want to take away the image that no one has received a sum or compensation. I also find it a little uncomfortable to discuss heights, also because, as I said, any amount in my opinion... I think if I said to the people we just spoke to, "€10,000" would still feel like "I'm sick, it's because of my employer and I'm not adequately compensated." I think if you're sick, any amount of money is too little. Look at Tilburg, for example. That's what took over the scheme. When it comes to sums of money and diseases, the same principle applies. Only Tilburg has chosen to give everyone generic, regardless of whether you have become ill or not, an amount. That is exactly the point of the Belhaj motion. With this you release the Dutch right to compensation, because you no longer have the causality. It is no longer about the fact that you have been exposed and become ill, which is really at the heart of our Dutch claim for damages. The fact that you are asking me about Tilburg also indicates that if one of the employers in the Netherlands does this directly leads to questions. That is why I think it is my responsibility if we decide here in this house to do it differently, to indicate what the impact is and what other possibilities you have when it comes to Dutch compensation law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u81	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u82	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. I do taste space here, because we have a case. We've told Tilburg that we're doing it generously, and we've got the Defense Department saying "we're not being generous," while you're apologizing and recognizing in every possible way, very well, that Defense was wrong. Tilburg also acknowledges that it was wrong and says: "We just do it. €7,500 standard, sick or not sick." Why are you stricter than Tilburg? Why do you give the impression that you're still grocery shopping? Why not more generous?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u83	Because this is at the heart of the Dutch compensation law, as I said. That sounds very legal. I'm repeating it now. I hear myself saying it, too. I don't want to be legal, but this is the point. When you say you're stepping away from causality, so from exposure and being sick, you have a completely different principle. Then the question comes to my mind within the Defense Department: doesn't that apply to chromium-6 only, but does that apply to everything? Because then we have 5,000 dangerous substances that we work with. Then we have more than 600 carcinogens and mutagens, probably I'm saying it wrong again, which we're working with. So on what basis are you going to make a sum of money? You have to have frameworks for that, otherwise it's gonna be really random. Then anyone can say: I may be afraid of it or I don't know. That's exactly what I'm trying to prevent. I want this discussion to be conducted in a good way and to clarify what new frameworks you could use, precisely to avoid this discussion. If you decide to switch... I said: I stick to the Heerts committee and I await the results of Heerma Voss, but at this moment I hold on to this. That is what I said to the people at the meeting in Kerkrade. I don't want random. That is why I am sticking to the Dutch law on compensation, together with the trade unions. That is precisely what I am doing to prevent... If I would say here 'we are doing it for this dangerous substance', people are asking: why not also for another dangerous substance? You need to get close and practice what that means. That's why Heerma Voss was asked to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to respond a little more compactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u85	Yes. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u86	It is an important subject and it is also a good thing that the Secretary of State gives a comprehensive answer on the regulation, but I would ask Members not to repeat things. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u87	We're certainly not gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. But all of a sudden Tilburg came along. I imagine a lot of people are following this debate and wondering: what the hell is that? That was a very specific case, in which welfare recipients were forced by the municipality to work without any form of protection. There was also a judicial conviction at the end. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she recognizes that this is also an important difference from the situation in the defence sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u88	I find it difficult to consider a different level of administration. But it is true what Mr Van Wijngaarden says: it is a different file. In the end, another consideration was made by derogating from the Dutch law on compensation. It was indeed a different file. In one hall people did work with protection and in the other hall people did not work with protection, to indicate the distinction. It was different with the DOD. But I don't want to make a comparison right now, because I'm not the representative of Tilburg. That responsibility has already taken place in the city council of Tilburg and that is where it belongs. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about his own risk. I believe that a number of other Members have asked for this, including Mr Stoffer, whom I do not see in the Chamber today. Part of the benefit scheme already looks at that. That €3,850 is intended precisely for this type of cost, its own risk. Just the people who are worried and who haven't gotten sick yet... That was one of the points of discussion following a meeting that I had organised with staff. They said: I'm not sick yet, but I'm worried; dear Secretary of State, will you run a total body scan for me? I asked the Joint Committee and the Health Council whether that would have added value for people. They indicated: you shouldn't do that, because that gives false certainty. As a result, we did offer a periodic health consultation at the VUmc in Amsterdam. You can go there and talk about what you're worried about. If it turns out there's something medical going on, you'll be referred to a specialist. Then you appeal to your own risk. You haven't used the benefit scheme because you don't have a disease yet. But if you're worried, if you report and you're referred, you'll be compensated for your own risk. In this way, we try to reduce the threshold for people as low as possible, even if they have not become ill, so that recourse to one's own risk is not part of the consideration. In the direction of Mr Wijngaarden, I say that we are trying to lower the threshold in this way. I think I have just gone into Tilburg, which Mrs Bromet also asked about. Then there is the point about the judge, about which I mentioned a moment ago in the direction of Mr Fritsma. I really want to take that away. It's not the judge, it's a claim-holder with the Defense Department itself, with the Department of Legal Claims. We're not trying to go to court. Then you take far too long, while trying to clarify as quickly as possible. In this context, we have also asked, for example, the Latvian Damage Council over the past period, how can we ensure that we are doing even faster the settlement of legal claims. Sometimes that can take a long time because you have to do that individual assessment. Can we make a number of assumptions in certain cases which will allow you to decide much faster in favour of the employees? I would also like to say this; you have also seen this in the last report of the Joint Committee: all the considerations that we make, we are trying to bring in the advantage, in so far as you can speak, of the benefit of employees. They must suffer as little as possible from long-term investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u89	I've been listening to the Secretary of State's answers for a while. You've had a lot of cases of being careful with public money. Because it's money from all of us, and it has to end up in the places it's meant for. But at the same time it is true that there are a lot of things, not just this one, that if you are too careful, you are also making victims, namely those who are entitled to the money and who are then excluded because the evidence is not irrefutable. How does the Secretary of State view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u90	I don't want to give the same answer as I just gave. That is why I was wondering how I could answer Mrs Bromet's question. I'm just trying to see what I can do. Based on the past period, I'm just trying to see how we can do things faster. I just gave you the example of one's own risk and how to remove thresholds. I am open to suggestions so in the past several suggestions have been made by Mrs. Hanke Bruins Slot, among others, to do things better than Defence in the arrangements and claims. The fact is that Mrs Belhaj's motion is being carried out precisely in order to meet those people who have actually done damage to it, as far as possible. 'Cause that's the intention I'm standing here with. I'm not here to keep a legal story, I'm here to see what we can do for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u91	But is the Secretary of State prepared to take the risk that some people who are not actually entitled to it will still get money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u92	That is not the discussion; this is not the case. We are not saying that there may be fraud. That is precisely why I said: we are trying to keep it as low as possible; a statement by one former colleague is sufficient, ready. We're not gonna check to see if that former colleague's statement is true. You've got all kinds of legal stuff. If you make a legal claim and we already give you a concession, but it turns out you weren't entitled to it, then we're not going to claim those funds back. That's not the question here. It's really about us trying to see what we can do. We have taken the current system as our starting point, and I have heard some of you say that you do not think that is enough. If you don't think that system is enough, then what do you want? That is exactly the research of Heerma Voss: what then? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try to speed up. I think I have already answered a large number of questions. One of these questions was Mrs Bromet's question about next of kin. This also applies in Dutch compensation law a number of principles that we have used and that feel uncomfortable, because you have to do certain things if someone is still alive. But if it isn't anymore... I feel that discomfort, too. That is why we are also giving this information in the context of the research. Mr. Chairman. There has also been a request for customisation. I think I have also gone into this: we are doing this in a way that is easily accessible. I have already answered Mr Stoffer's question about his own risk. Then Mr Fritsma. I believe that we have already discussed the question of the amount of money on which it is based, namely on other schemes that already exist. Then there are the regulations for the other dangerous substances. I think I've actually already dealt with that. I'm just looking at the questions that have been asked to prevent me from not answering a question. Mr Boswijk asked if in doubt we could be cooperative with the additions. That's actually the second category, so there's limited evidence. We deal with that in that sense in a coulant way, because normally you would only do that for the first category. The question by Mrs Van Beuker, but also by Mr Van Dijk, about dangerous substances in the future and the prevention of health risks. A number of things are happening. One of these things is that I probably do not have to tell you, because you had the debate with Mr Koolmees last week that from SZW, and especially from the inspection SZW, there is of course a maintenance on how the work hygiene ladder is applied and whether the further inventory of dangerous substances is carried out. That's what we're doing right now. We started with chromium-6 and the CMR substances. We are actually in the middle of the steps we have to go through for chromium-6. I can also tell you that we will then move on to the other substances and, for example, to diesel engine emissions, which is also a risk category. We have the idea that it will take three to five years before we have implemented all these categories in accordance with the requirements. We also agreed to this with the inspection. We have presented them with a plan of action and also asked whether it is sufficient to adapt it in this way. That's right. In the meantime, the inspection will carry out inspections with us. We also publish them on our website. Soon another report will be published, because they have again carried out re-inspections at the Department of Defense. You can also read this in the annual report of ISZW. There have been reports of violations, including in the Defense Department. So we are on the right track, but ISSW says, for example, that you can take more measures than just offering personal protective equipment; you should actually take a step forward on the technical measures. This is not about chromium-6 but about other dangerous substances. It has also been found, for example, that there were still contaminated overalls of hire employees in certain places. Well, those are just violations. You can check it out on our website later. So we try to be as transparent as possible about what ISZW finds, also to your Chamber. That is why, in reply to Mr Van Wijngaarden's question, I say that it is all right: no, therefore. For the ISZW maintains and finds in us transgressions. We're gonna have to work hard on that. So it is still a while before we have worked out everything about all these dangerous substances. Then I'll go to the questions about personal protective equipment. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked for an easy way to obtain personal protective equipment. He made a comparison with America. I have no idea that it would be better arranged there, so to speak. But of course I can always ask questions. I will certainly do that. In principle, personal protective equipment should not be a problem. We are also purchasing personal protective equipment for the rest of the government. I also had research conducted, in 2018, by the Audit Service Rijk, with the question: is it enough? The answer to that was yes. It was stated that it is sufficiently secure and that every employee can simply make an application, with his supervisor or digital. Your related question was: and if anyone gets to hear from his commanding officer that it's not allowed, if it's difficult? That's not possible in principle. I don't recognize that culture. Nor have I received any signals so far that this is a problem. There are sufficient personal protective equipment. If you have ideas from America, then I'm more than recommended and I'll see what I can do right now. Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts.... I will pronounce your full name; excuse......................................................................................................................................... I believe that Mrs Belhaj also raised this in the hearing and the round table. Actually, that's a demand for predictive ability. We have put the question to the RIVM. It can't be right now. But I like to be recommended to science, for what it indicates is possible. Mr Stoffer asked about access to protective equipment. I think I just answered that. I come to the varia, to the questions that are still open. Mr. Stoffer asked about online, about the availability of the telephone portals. Understandable. I can tell you that I think anyone who calls the counter about chromium-6 knows the name Linda by now. She is the one who answers the phone, who speaks to the people and who has the personal contact, where people also feel familiar. It is also the information point. So we're trying to streamline it correctly and not to leave it with the Defense Department, but with the CAOP, so it's also independent. If the Defence logo were on it, people might feel inhibited, and that's why we invested it externally. My experience is that they always record between 9:00 and 5:00 p.m., even if Linda isn't there. We also test everything for understanding for the target group. It's still a tricky matter. In the spring of 2019 I also had a survey conducted among all the people who were registered, to ask if this was enough and what could be better. On that basis, a number of things have been adapted. The entire website has also been re-adapted. And I intend to conduct the same survey this autumn: can it be better, can it be more understandable and what can we do in it? Because human contact, precisely to ask what is the question behind the question, is the added value of this telephone hotline. Mr Boswijk asked about other countries and contacts. Do we share the information with that? That question was seen both at the RIVM and at the Defense Department. In any case, as early as 2014, when these signals started, a first question was asked by the various countries within our NATO alliance. That came out: use, no complaints known and no investigation. So it was not the case that we could learn from other countries for this research. We also made contact, especially with the POMS sites, with our neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium, also because there were such workshops and people there also worked with American equipment. Nothing was known there either, so we couldn't use it in that sense either. RIVM uses all internationally available scientific information. It's also used for his actualization. RIVM has also shared that, and we will also simply call for it to be done in English in all the forums that exist for science. We are also discussing this with our colleagues. I also know that my colleague Stientje van Veldhoven is constantly bringing this into all kinds of international European fora when it comes to working with dangerous substances and European standards, to see what the standards are and how we can combat their use. That's what we're committed to. My personal experience is that, in the Netherlands, for example, when it comes to chromium-6, we are actually the only ones who have raised this issue so far, because we are the only country in which people have complaints and have come forward with them. I wish I could call on other countries for knowledge and skills, but so far we are the only country with such a great research. We are the only country in which people have come forward with complaints and have said: this is because of working with chromium-6. We are recommended to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you for that answer. I cannot imagine that there are no other countries where people have complaints. I can imagine that this was the case in 2014, because it was also new for us back then. Now that we've been a few years, you'd think they'd have to suffer from it in America, too. Not so much because we get our knowledge from it, but because of a moral obligation to share our knowledge with those countries. Actually, I think that's even more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u94	We are. But what I told you, we are the only ones so far. In our aviation systems we still use chrome-containing paint because of corrosion. There is an obligation to eliminate this use as much as possible. We are also trying to hear from our international partners what they are doing, to learn from it and to take over things, even when it comes to the certification of certain substances. I have to tell you that I was surprised about that, too. I also said: is this really only the case in the Netherlands? I can hardly imagine that if I look at the extent to which chromium-6 has been used in the past and is still used in the aviation sector worldwide. That makes sense because of the anti-corrosion effect. So far, this is really the story. In this sense, I have been surprised that this has so far been the case, as has Mr Boswijk. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked for prevention and cited risk inventories as well as hearing protection. The risk inventories have been and are carried out and should also be updated. That's happening right now. A large part has been carried out or is to be assessed by our internal health service. What is very important for the risk assessment and evaluation is participation. If you run a risk inventory and evaluation, you offer it to a commander. There are 243 commanders, by my mind, decentralised employers who have to carry out such a RI&E. In fact, if you return it to that commander from the internal military service, you must have knowledge of it. The co-determination must also appeal to the commander and ask what he or she is doing with it. That is why we are going to point out once again to participation that it must play that role, because that is the best checks-and-balances. That's the workplace that looks right into it. We will once again draw attention to this participation role, from which the commander should be addressed. We have standard hearing protection, but it doesn't fit in dynamic shooting exercises, because then you want to be able to communicate with each other. In the past period we have invested heavily in additional hearing protection. In principle, there is sufficient hearing protection on each shooting range, both standard hearing protection and additional hearing protection, depending on the exercise you need to do at that time. We also hear signals from people who say, "I don't have it." So this remains a focus, as you rightly said. We'll call the commanders on that, too. As a result of a visitation committee, this has been asked out again, and this has once again been put to the attention of the commander. We've set up a control team before the shooting instruction, and that's gonna monitor Defense Breed on this. Of course, we also have a Social Affairs Inspectorate. I know that it is monitoring this, but in principle it is primarily with us. I think I have answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u95	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of the Secretary of State, but there is another question from Mrs Van Beuker of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u96	In addition to the question put by the CDA, you indicated in the factual answer that you brought the issue of chromium-6 to the attention of the European Defence Agency. We were wondering whether it would be useful to bring this to the attention of NATO as well. That was not clear from your factual questioning, so I wanted to bring that to your attention. Did you bring it to the attention of the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u97	Let me put it this way: if that is the case in the actual question, it will, of course. For the second time, I will check the way in which it has been brought to the attention, including within NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u98	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her answer. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I had such a hunch with Mr Van Dijk. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u99	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. It's good to see she's really involved in this subject. There's nothing wrong with that. As far as I'm concerned, it's not a good policy. I therefore have a motion on two points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the case of chromium-6, the defence has done absolutely nothing to protect personnel;]] [[considers that a generous compensation fund is necessary to do justice to the victims, taking into account the principle of plausibility;]] [[also considers that the financial regulation in the asbestos fund can be taken as a starting point;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of the above principles, to establish a generous compensation fund for staff who have worked with chromium-6,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government has commissioned extensive research into chromium-6;]] [[noting that there are still around 5,000 toxic substances working in the Defense Department;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which a compensation scheme can be set up for the other hazardous substances used or used in the defence sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-109]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Secretary of State. At least she's convinced me that it's heading in the right direction. One thing is bothering us and that is the way in which we deal with next of kin. For them there is a different arrangement than for the people who have not yet died. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that survivors of former defence workers who died due to unprotected work with chromium-6 are currently not entitled to compensation for intangible damage, as this would lead to far-reaching precedent;]] [[Whereas a possible precedent which provides that survivors of public personnel who are killed by his or her employer are not entitled to intangible compensation is not undesirable;]] [[requests the Government to adapt the chromium-6 Defence Scheme in such a way as to enable survivors to claim compensation for intangible damage which would otherwise have been granted to the surviving former defence officer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a substitute for my colleague, Mr Belhaj, I would also like to say that I think it is a very spicy subject. I like how the Secretary of State showed her involvement this afternoon, but also in the last period with the various letters. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the official for all the answers given this afternoon. Much appreciated for that. I have one question left open, a new question for the second term. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she will establish a link between the recommendations that are to come from Voss's Heerma committee towards the national centre of expertise set up by Social Affairs. I'll leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Fritsma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for all the answers he has given. The involvement is indeed there. However, the outcome of this debate for the PVV Group is not very satisfactory. This is mainly due to the fact that we believe that the victims and survivors of the chromium-6 issue should be helped once and for all. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the way the cabinet operates. That's because of the big flaw in the scheme: RIVM's standard disease list. It is updated every year, but the first question is how long it will last. Three years? Five years? Ten years? No disrespect, but the list is, so to speak, updated until everyone is dead. This will ensure that this remains a lingering issue. The Secretary of State mentioned causality. Of course, there must be a causal link between working with chromium-6 and the condition. If the burden of proof is reversed, all other criteria will of course remain. The work carried out will be looked at. Of course, it must be shown that people are exposed to chromium-6. When you get sick, that causality is there. The Secretary of State indicated that this causality must be demonstrated by evidence. Then I would like to come back to a category that falls out of the boat. That is category 3: there are some scientific evidence that exposure to chromium-6 has caused a disease, but that evidence is insufficient. So there are some indications that they got sick because of chromium-6, but that is not enough. This arrangement is no good. Hence one motion, Mr. Chairman. I'll read it to you soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u104	I'm afraid you don't have time for that anymore. That was one minute and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u105	The Chamber, heard the debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr. Fritsma, I'd like to give you a chance to read your motion, but I'd like to ask you to stick to time a little more in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u107	I will certainly take that into account, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u108	I'll give you a chance now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to assume that the health complaints of (former) defence workers exposed to chromium-6 are the result of that toxic substance, unless proven otherwise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. Then I look at Mr Boswijk. He's dropping his second term. I'll see how much time the Secretary of State needs. Five minutes? I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then the Secretary of State gives her appreciation for the motions submitted and answers a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u112	I would ask Members to take their place again. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u113	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd come here real fast, but I think I forgot something. Let's see. Yeah, I found him. Thank you to all the members of the Chamber. I think we all want the same thing in the end, namely, as Mr Fritsma pointed out, rather than long-term issues and giving clarity as quickly as possible. That is also what the RIVM research has been aiming for. I also understand the calls to look for the edges of what is still possible. Let me just put it this way. That's how I'll see the motions. But I don't want to repeat it. In fact, I have already mentioned the essence of my speech in my speech. It's that I'm still reasoning on the basis of the current right to compensation, the causality. That way I will also assess the motions. I hope that I have been able to include the Chamber in the consideration that will still be given in the coming period and in the way in which we look at things. Then I would like to answer a few specific questions. Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts asked about the NATO alliance. That is indeed an omission in a factual question. We do things in the NATO context. In fact, we have only dealt with the European context. Since chromium-6 is now mainly used in the aviation sector, we have regular consultations with our NATO partners. These are the Norwegians, the Americans, the English and the Belgians. I just indicated that we are very much on certification of paint systems. Can we take over certification from other countries? We have the Military Aviation Authority. If you use other paint systems, you have to show that they are airworthy, that there is no corrosion. That takes a while, because it has to be proven in a number of years. We have an agreement that we can take over accreditations as other aviation authorities, so you don't have to do them again. That's why we're discussing this kind of thing. That's what we do to learn, especially when it comes to the same planes. That goes for the F-16 and the helicopters, the Chinook and the Apache. As a result, we have already been able to adapt a number of paint systems. In the Netherlands, however, we make the distinction between chrome-free and chrome-free. I would like to mention that for a moment, because there are three layers and we are one of the few countries that makes that distinction. There has sometimes been a report on which the SP and D66 have asked Parliament questions, suggesting that in some countries no more chrome-containing paint was used at all or chromium in the primer of an aviation weapon system. We're using a different definition. It still is. Let me put it this way. One of the questions in the debate in the Chamber was whether I could also persuade the other countries to do so. Well, we still have that difference in definition. Periodic consultations shall take place. These are mainly done by our Defence Material Organization. That is also the organisation that assesses whether a substitution can take place. Was there something you wanted to say, Mr. Chairman? Sorry, I was distracted by a noise behind you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u114	Someone coughed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u115	That's why. Well, then, cheers to those. D66 asked about the investigation of Mr Heerma van Voss. I've always said "Herma Voss." I'll call him later and tell him I've consistently said his name wrong. I know he's watching. The question was whether I could link the recommendations to the national centre of expertise. Those are two very different things. Mr Heerma van Voss is very much relying on the arrangement. Of course, the national centre of expertise is mainly about the design of the knowledge infrastructure, i.e. the point of contact. There must be one point of contact in the Netherlands where employees can report, whether they still have an employer who can or cannot hold them liable or whether it is a question of acquiring knowledge. On the other hand, this compensation scheme will obviously have to be drawn up on the basis of objective criteria, as Heerts also points out. So we will at least offer our RIVM research to the national expertise centre. In fact, RIVM has already taken a very clear scientific approach and is already on the table. We will also offer that to be included in the elaboration by SZW. Those contacts are there, too. So both are discussed, but of course the arrangement we now have is a legal arrangement with the unions. Well, at least that's how we handled it in the DOD. This kind of thing always needs to be coordinated with the unions first. So also things that come from Heerts or Social Affairs, we will first have to discuss with the trade unions if it leads to an adjustment of our arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u116	Here you are avenged that you really know more about the Heerts Committee and the Heerma Committee of Voss. When I was talking about the national centre of expertise, I did mean the Heerts Committee. I apologize for throwing you on the wrong foot a little bit. I welcome the answer and I expect you to take that link with me later. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr Fritsma said something about the endless updating of the list. Yes, we will, because it is scientific research, not only from us but also internationally. Mr Boswijk actually asked for that too. We are indeed a country that has done and will continue to do thorough international scientific research. I think that is a real complement for countries when it occurs there. Of course, we will also transfer it when we have the national centre of expertise, because you actually want one information node and one knowledge node where everything comes together. When will that be? Well, we're not gonna let things fall out of our hands. The same goes for the Information Point Chrome-6, because I do not want people suddenly falling between shore and ship, because there will be a national centre of expertise. That is why we will continue to do so until then. Until it's transferred, we'll keep asking these questions. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. I have already said something about my assessment of the motions in my introduction. The first motion is Mr Van Dijk's motion on item No. 109. I think I have already dealt with the principles we have set out so far. And also the point about the fund... I don't know if... It's not about the instrument! It does not matter whether it is a fund or a budget article in our budget. I don't think that's the discussion either. It is very much about the principles that Mr Van Dijk is calling into question. I have just gone into that in the debate and I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u118	The motion in part No. 109 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u119	The motion in part No. I will also advise against Mr Van Dijk's 110. I will tell Mr Van Dijk that this is actually what we are asking the Social Affairs Commission to do. Actually, this call is already being picked up. Right now, I'd like to say keep it on. The motion is then a stick behind the door to be able to return to the DOD once again if it has not yet been carried out. But if he doesn't, I'm gonna have to dissuade him. That's my verdict, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bromet's motion and Mrs Piri's motion for a resolution 111. I see that the policy officer is listening in at least. The same is true of this, and I would therefore ask that this motion be retained. I understand the feeling when it comes to the empty seat that exists, but I also explained in the debate that it is currently regulated in this way in the Dutch law on compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u120	If the motion is not held, you will advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u121	Yeah, exactly. Then the motion to part No. 112 by Mr Fritsma. That's actually the same thing. My argument for this is therefore the same as in the previous motions. Dissuade!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-7.u123	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way, including those who are following this debate in a separate room in The Hague. So thank you for watching. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
