ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u1	At present the issue is the examination of the legislative proposal 35932, the reduction in the rate of landlord's tax and the monthly change in the amounts of tax reductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The landlord levy was introduced in 2013 as a crisis measure. The levy has indeed been used by the public purse, with over EUR 12.5 billion so far. The social consequences were disastrous. Thanks to the landlord tax, we are now in a housing crisis. After all, the 12.5 billion paid by the social landlords to the state treasury have not been invested in affordable housing. All experts and almost all political parties see the negative effects of the levy and now feel that it should be abolished. Then why are we discussing a proposal to reduce the levy and not a proposal to abolish it? I only found one answer in the Lower House papers. In view of the major budgetary implications, it is up to the next cabinet to take a decision on this matter. In other words, this cabinet does not dare to slaughter the dairy cow and thus accepts the continuation of the housing crisis. However, the next cabinet is almost there. We know from the media that investments will be made within the housing file. Can the rulers lift a hint of the veil and indicate whether this financial injection is part of the abolition or further reduction of the landlord's levy, which, as has been said, is considered necessary by almost everyone? Mr. Chairman. If the only reason for maintaining the landlord's tax is not to create budgetary gaps for the next cabinet, it seems to me that it is important to ensure that the social landlords do not pay more than what has been estimated. Does the Minister agree with me? And does she agree with me that the danger that this will happen is enormous at a time when the increase in the WPA value on which the levy is calculated could well be higher than estimated, which would completely or partially nullify the reduction in the levy? If the sole goal is not to break a budgetary gap, the Minister should be able to promise that everything that comes in more of a landlord's tax in 2022 will then be returned to the people's home, for example by pouring the surplus into a housing fund? Mr. Chairman. The landlord's tax is not the only tax that disproportionately affects housing corporations. For example, housing corporations, although non-profit-making, also pay corporate tax on their SGEI activities. The corporations are also affected by a tightening up of that 2019 tax, which was aimed at combating tax avoidance by international organisations, known as ATAD 1. Does the Minister agree with me that it would be better to exempt housing companies from paying corporate tax on their SGEI activities and to exempt them from ATAD? What steps will be taken to achieve this? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the fact that our tax system imposes a heavy burden on housing corporations, which has an impact on the availability of affordable housing, it also benefits the owner of the property compared to the tenant: with the mortgage interest deduction, with the jubelton, with the barely taxing of rental income. Does the Minister agree with my group that all these, I would say, perverse tax rules only increase inequality between buyers and tenants and maintain the housing crisis? Again: can a tip of the veil be lifted? Is the new cabinet gonna do something about this? My group is voting in favour of any reduction in the landlord levy as a step towards the ultimate goal of abolishing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. I also speak today on behalf of the Party for Animals. The housing crisis affects large groups of people. Hardly affected by the housing crisis and the growing shortage of affordable and good housing are certainly those income groups that are now dependent on social rent. These are people who are now also hit hardest by the rapid rise in inflation, including, first and foremost, the explosive increase in energy prices. Especially those people who live in poorly isolated homes. Inflation, which is already causing a huge loss of purchasing power, is now threatening to increase rents. With that, these groups pay triple the bill. The political groups of the SP and the Animal Party ask the Minister why this cabinet is not doing anything about this. Why is the government not prepared to freeze the rents again for a long time? We shall come back to this in the discussion of the Minister's budget, but we would now like to hear her reflection. Do we really leave these people in the cold this winter? The housing crisis has several causes, but when it comes to housing and the lack of affordable housing, it is clear that the tax on the construction of social housing plays a major role. We are talking about the so-called crisis measure, which then became permanent. It did not combat the previous crisis, but rather led to a crisis, namely the housing crisis. Now almost all parties, including those in favour of it at the time, have been wanting to get rid of it for a long time. Almost all parties, because Dutch politics has been held hostage by one party for many years now: the VVD. That party has always defended the landlord's tax: it had to go up rather than down. More than 12.5 billion has already been collected with the landlord levy. Also next year, if it is up to the outgoing cabinet, there will be at least 1.5 billion. Then we're at over 14 billion. 14 billion in social housing taxes. Probably the amount will be much higher again. Last year more than 400 million euros of landlord tax were collected than budgeted in advance. The Hermans motion in the House of Representatives raised 500 million, but it turns out that this discount will evaporate completely in the coming years due to the increase in the WWF value, to which the landlord levy is linked. Mr De Boer van GroenLinks referred to this earlier. So 500 million doesn't seem to be 500 million at all. There'll be nothing left in the end. Then what good is it? I'm asking the Minister. Another attempt has been made in the House of Representatives to fix this, at least for the coming year, pending a hopefully more far-reaching decision on this antisocial tax by the new government. We're gonna see. The coalition and the minister didn't want it. My question is why? Why not freeze the influence of the WOZ value on the rental charge at least for next year? I am considering a motion on this point. What must, of course, be done in the end is that we will finally abolish this landlord's tax immediately. According to Aedes, the association of housing corporations, only a complete abolition of the landlord's tax can enable them to realise the Housing Agenda. What is the Minister's response to that? I'm closing up. The housing crisis hits so many people so hard that we cannot wait for a new cabinet to take action. Nevertheless, measures remain out of the question. So we come back to the budgetary debate and look forward to the Minister's answers to the questions we have asked. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Van Strien on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the landlord levy introduced by the Rutte II cabinet with the PvdA at the time, which we have opposed since its introduction, has been reduced by EUR 831 million. However, the Minister of the Interior himself has already indicated in the Lower House that the proceeds of the landlord's tax due to the WOZ increase in 8 years are already at the current level. The total reduction of 831 million in the capital of the corporation sector has therefore evaporated. We therefore continue to advocate a complete abolition of the landlord's tax. We also indicate the coverage: stop mass immigration, which now costs some 13 billion a year. That works both ways. Building becomes a clear issue and no mopping with the crane open, or rather: mopping with the boundaries open. The increase in population will then be extremely limited. This is good for nature, agriculture and the quality of life in this country. Mr. Chairman. The aim of the reduction of the landlord's tax is, of course, to improve the investment capacity of housing corporations. However, the total housing shortage and the absurd price increases on the purchase market are still affected by two other forms of government policy. Firstly, this is the climate madness and the related measures of making homes so-called energy neutral. There is no doubt that existing houses need to be properly maintained, double-glazed and, as far as possible, insulated and, if necessary, modernised. Older houses, although constructively still in perfect condition, often contain many cold bridges. You may be able to isolate heavily, but the danger is that you will have to deal with fluid problems. But taking older houses off the gas and equipped with a heat pump is usually really insanely expensive and in no way leads to improved living comfort. That money would be much better spent on new construction. A second measure, which is already old and which is seriously affecting the housing market, is the tax advantage of expats. A nice illustration I read a few weeks ago in an interview with the broker and the contractor who buy the program without looking. I quote: "Another additional problem, in a difficult search for a home, are all those expats, with huge fees from their employers. They're throwing money. A starter can't compete with that." I am talking here about the 30% regime, a tax measure which does not really belong to this minister, but also plays a disruptive role here. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is, of course, still outgoing, but only if it is convenient: 6.8 billion in climate hysteria and over 13 billion per year for mass immigration, but not a complete abolition of landlord tax. It's just what you think is important and what you think is social. In any case, these are not the choices of the PVV. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Mr Van Rooijen has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr President, for once I put my glasses on because of the small letters this morning on the computer. When thousands of construction workers and installers were waiting for work, the Rutte II cabinet cut off social housing. Now that there really is no more professional or woman to get, the billions for investment funds are flying to our ears. What timing. Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of people are on a waiting list for a social rental house, sometimes 15 years. For a starter's home, a property for sale, you already have to earn more than twice the amount of money and the asylum shelter gets stuck. It just doesn't work anymore. I hope the Rutte cabinet realizes that cleaning up this mess and resolving the housing crisis will cost the treasury far more than the proceeds of the landlord's tax. You intend to fill the gap created by this tax with an investment fund, but you are not catching up with it for ten years. At least 100,000 homes are not built. This has lost a lot of potential prosperity and well-being. Mr. Chairman. The Rutte IV cabinet is going to be called the recovery cabinet. I think it should do most of all repair work on Rutte I, II and III. But let's start with a housing shortage minister, with a construction helmet, who, like KVP Minister Bogaers at the time, built over 100,000 homes. He had to build 100,000, but it became a lot more. In order to give that minister a good chance, the landlord levy must be removed immediately. 50PLUS was, is and remains against the landlord's tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Essers has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr President. The CDA Group was already opposed to the introduction of the landlord levy in 2013 because it found it absurd that such a levy was introduced at the height of the then financial crisis, which hit the housing market hard. Anno 2021, now that we have an even bigger housing crisis than at the time, the CDA Group is still opposed to this tax. Apart from budgetary motives, which were dominant at the time, the then cabinet also played a role in countering skews, in order to promote the flow of over-income tenants. We ask the Minister, with his knowledge of the present situation, to look back on the landlord's tax and to take stock of what he has achieved. How many social housing units have the Minister estimated not to have been built by the landlord levy, which has cost housing corporations around 13 billion so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u12	You're almost at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u13	I'm at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u14	You're at the end? Thank you. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u15	It is good that Mr Essers reminds us of the past. This was introduced for budgetary reasons. For five years, the House of Representatives has been asking for it to be abolished, but the CDA accepts that it has not been abolished for budgetary reasons. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u16	"Budgetair" is, of course, always a very broad concept. A cabinet must be able to rely on a return. You cannot simply abolish an ongoing scheme and then miss 2 billion or 3 billion revenues. But the fact that the landlord levy is very bad as such is an argument that we have kept continuously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u17	But I think there is something inconsistent in Mr Essers' reasoning. It has been introduced for budgetary reasons, but it must not be abolished because there are budgetary reasons. That's kind of the pot and the kettle. The PvdA has been asking for five years to simply abolish it and that is neatly covered in counter-budgets. There are no budgetary reasons not to do so. It's a political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr Crone, like me, knows that this is an iron reality. Once you have introduced a scheme, it is not so easy to get rid of it, because the models are indeed based on the yield. If it had been up to us, I might say that the landlord levy was already abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u19	Then I am very curious what we will read tomorrow in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u20	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u21	I was very pleased with Mr Essers' speech from the CDA Group. The CDA agrees with my party that this landlord tax is an antisocial tax, which should never have been introduced for investments in social housing in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u22	You've already made that point. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u23	My question is this. I don't know what's in the coalition agreement. Perhaps Mr Essers knows more about that. I assume that the CDA does not want to see this landlord tax continue for years to come. At least next year will be there, even if there is a new coalition tomorrow. In my first term, I asked for attention to be paid to the rising WPA value, which could possibly lead to a further increase in the landlord's tax next year. How does the CDA Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u24	I'd be happy to return that question to the Minister, if you don't mind. I understand that there is a kind of balance to be struck and that there is a desire to ensure that the rising value of the World Health Organization does not result in another attack on housing corporations for the landlord levy. I would like to ask the Minister's attention and confirm that this balance is being made. I agree with you that this is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u25	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u26	Then we're in agreement. In what I have heard from the House of Representatives about what the Minister has argued there, I have not seen that balance. I am very curious to hear the Minister's reply. Maybe we'll be pleasantly surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u27	I refer to the answers to our questions, from which I have derived this trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u28	Can I conclude from what Mr Essers said that for years the coalition interest has gone beyond the social interest of the CDA? The importance of continuing to govern goes beyond the social interest. In my view, that is the conclusion I can draw from Mr Essers' words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u29	That is a rhetorical question which must, of course, be answered with no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you. Mr Crone, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to have the Minister here. I actually had the hope that the Secretary of State would also be there, because many aspects of taxation themselves also play a role. That has actually been the core of my story yesterday: there has been great inequality, not only in terms of income, but also in terms of wealth. I commend the Minister, because she had to stick patches because the fundamentals of the market were distorted, precisely because of taxation. So the Minister had to stick plasters, such as rent regulation, even freezing, we helped her a little bit, but also regulating the buying-in protection, all because the market fundamentals were disturbed. The best program of the Netherlands, Even to this point, had a screenshot ten days ago that showed up. I had given you my text in advance, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, that we are the only country in the world to live in social life. It is quite bizarre that we in a country like the Netherlands should raise something that is necessary. It was a crisis measure. That is why I am proud that we have always tried to abolish it. I also commend the Minister for not having done so because she always wanted to reduce it. But why not take that last step now? A reduction in the landlord's tax would be a huge help, because the Minister has already indicated that the 8 billion reduction that has taken place so far will result in an additional 45,000 to 50,000 homes. So if we also abolish that last 15 billion, there will be another 90,000 to 100,000 homes. It's that simple sometimes. Those are the calculations of the building capacity. So I would like to ask the Minister: why don't you do this? Of course, you and I are here to tell each other that this is covered by the coalition agreement. In any case, we have submitted a motion to the General Financial Reviews to settle this, in order to be sure. Others have also pointed out that what the cabinet is doing now is partly a cigar out of its own box. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) value also says that the Minister rises neatly in the pieces of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). The reduction in the landlord's levy crosses the increase in the WPA value about in 2030. So then those 45,000 homes, which you predict with this reduction, will no longer be there, won't they? After all, the corporations are also anticipating this. They know they're gonna get some, but they know it's gonna come out on the other side. So that's a cardigan pocket. That is why I do not think it is right for the Minister to say that the reduction will bring 40,000 to 50,000 homes. I therefore support the spokesmen, for example Mrs De Boer, who said that you should compensate for the WPA levy, but that it is even better to compensate, as we do for citizens and businesses, for the increase in the WPA value by a lower rate. Every municipality does that, and the political parties are on top of that. If there is a small increase between them, then the VVD calls that it should not be, and so should the democratic process. By the way, this does not suggest that the VVD-line should always be followed, because this is happening too often here. Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out a few structural errors in the tax regulation as a whole. Tenants who now rent a house with a rent of €600 and a value of 2 tonnes, now pay €1,400 in tax through the housing corporations. But someone who owns a house of 2 tons only pays $120 tax. What is this unequal treatment, where the people with the weakest should bear the greatest burden? I believe that the Minister should also be able to correct that. It has to increase the rent payments every time to compensate for the market failure here, but also the tax failure. Mr President, I will conclude. These weave errors need to be removed. Last year, and the year before, a housing fund was set up, 450 million. This is not continued, while a lot of projects were rejected because the pot was empty. Is the Minister prepared to restore that housing fund? We will then be able to enthusiastically support the BZK budget, especially to enable municipalities such as The Hague and Utrecht, but also many others, including in the shrinking areas, to build their thousands of homes in a good living and living environment. Is she willing to do that? It seems logical to me that we cannot vote for a budget that is lower than last year's: more crises, less money. That is why I am pleased that I was able to table this motion with such support in the Financial Reviews. Subject to the second deadline, I will ask the President to put that motion to the vote next week in order to support you and to allow your last budget to be adopted. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. D66 has a brief contribution to make to this debate. The Group is deeply concerned about the housing market, and especially about the citizens who are now dissatisfied with their housing situation but are unable to improve it themselves. The consequences can be profound and far-reaching. We are aware that the Minister is doing a lot, and has done it, to encourage the construction of new homes. Yet building more is not the solution to all problems. This is also about prices of both rental and purchase houses, location accessibility, sustainability and quality. We are talking here today about tax measures affecting the housing situation, in particular the reduction of the landlord's tax. The D66 Group understands that a reduction in the landlord's tax is proposed to maintain the cash flow and investment space of housing corporations. Is this going to give housing corporations more space to make them more sustainable and to build extra? Can the Minister explain the question about the use of these funds? Are there any arrangements with the housing corporations about this? Of course, the question remains what the future of the landlord tax is. It has been mentioned many times. The D66 Group is in favour of further lowering and even abolishing the landlord levy. It seems relevant to us to agree on the use of these funds. Can the Minister, despite her outgoing status on behalf of the government, share her thoughts on this matter with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr Van der Voort reassured me in his last sentence. He mentioned that the reduction was necessary to maintain the investment space of the housing corporations. I would say that it should be substantially improved and that there should therefore be an even further reduction or abolition. My question is whether you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u35	Indeed, that last sentence gave the answer to your question. We agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u36	Please continue your speech. Or are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u37	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u38	I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. The introduction of the landlord levy in 2013 had a very specific cause and context. It is good to take note of that. It has already been said that the levy was intended to help the then government with additional resources as a result of a deep financial crisis. That was a crisis that caused enormous economic damage. Banks and insurers had to be maintained with billions of public aid. Unemployment rose to a high level. The stock markets collapsed. Pension funds were in big trouble. All this led to a deep recession. The economy fell by some 22 billion and the government debt increased to many hundreds of billions. House prices fell by 20% in those years, more than a million households were flooded and many companies fell. Tax revenue fell sharply and the State put more than 32 billion into saving the banks. The government needed money, a lot of money. The landlord levy was one of the crisis measures to increase state revenue. The fact that a number of housing corporations had drifted away from their core activities and made decent profits and some corporations were accused of fraud and questionable investments, at the time, I remember well that the introduction of the landlord tax was politically and socially less questionable. Mr. Chairman. The situation now is incomparable. Many economic signals are far from being green again, but the housing market is completely out of control. Affordable homes, including rental houses, are hard to find and housing corporations are eager for financial relief. In short, the landlord levy has lost its right to exist. We also learned from the financial crisis at the time that a firm investment agenda is necessary to get out of a crisis. Such an agenda for boosting the housing market is indispensable. Does the Minister, I ask her, share our view on the obsolete nature of the landlord's upliftment? When will this acceleration make the landlord's elevation a thing of the past? The House of Representatives recently called for a motion to freeze the rents in the social sector. The cabinet took over the motion and compensates the housing corporations through an accelerated tariff reduction of the landlord's uplift, a sum of around 180 million. Did the cabinet consider that is a bit of the key question this morning, Mr President, to remove the landlord's tax as such, my group asks the Minister? And if so, why was this finally abandoned? Mr. Chairman. Finishing the landlord's uplifting offers the corporations financial breathing space to invest substantially in the so necessary new construction. After all, housing scarcity is a social problem of the first order, especially for young people, especially for young families and especially for single people. We must now take everything out of the closet to reverse the tide and the accelerated abolition of the landlord's upliftment fits in with that. The Christian Union Group will therefore support this proposal, although I would like to emphasise that we would have preferred a complete abolition. The formation table must provide a solution here. I am therefore very curious to see what will become known at this point these days. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the question of how the Minister will ensure that the 180 million released will actually be used by the corporations for the construction of affordable new rental homes. That guarantee seems essential to us. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u41	That is an excellent story, but the conclusion that you are waiting for the new coalition agreement is only a little disappointing. After all, we have to decide today what the tax rates will be next year. Today we have to decide whether there will be a housing fund in the BZK budget. In fact, the surplus from the landlord's levy alone, which is not even spent, gives enough money to set up a housing fund next year. That could be covered with this and it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u42	I understand your reasoning. The point is that there is now a legislative proposal on the table and we must say yes or no to it. I indicated that we would have much preferred that this landlord's upliftment as such to go away, but there is no legislative proposal for that now. And in the First Chamber, it's good practice to look at such a bill from some distance. We say that we will vote in favour of everything, but the ultimate objective is to abolish it. That seems like a very clear line to me, Mr. Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u43	I welcome that, too, but you say that we are here to say yes or no. But it looks like you're just saying yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u44	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u45	Do you dare say no? Then together we will make a request for this to be done by means of a novellle. There's only one number to change: 0.3 becomes 0.2 or 0. That novel can be treated as a hammer piece in the House of Representatives this week and here next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u46	I actually have little to add to my own words. Perhaps Mr Crone should argue a little more muffled, because I do not believe that when his party, the Labour Party, was in power, she took great steps to abolish the landlord's upliftment. So some self-reflection seems appropriate to me. But again, we are in favour of abolishing the landlord's upliftment. We'll wait for the formation table. I cannot imagine any comments being made on this. We'll wait for that quietly. The line is: we are voting in favour now, but much rather we are seeing an abolition and we are waiting to see what will happen in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u47	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u48	I find it disappointing that I have to use a biblical term now that you're going to attack me, when we've been wanting to get rid of it for five years. Then I'm talking about the beam and the splinter in the eye. Your argument was stronger than that. You do not go into my argument that we can cover this, the housing fund and the landlord's tax, and we can cover it for a year. Now a hole of a year falls.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u49	I have little to add to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you. Maybe it is good to report: not so much the "renter's levy" as the "renter's charge."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u51	Next: I would rather raise the tenants and raise the landlords a little less, if that's what you want to call it. My question to Mr Ester is this. He is the last to speak of the parties that formed the coalition in the Lower House. The VVD is not participating in this debate, which is very unfortunate. I have heard the representatives of all the coalition parties in this Chamber say very loudly so far that the landlord levy should be abolished. My question is, how come that didn't happen? Could Mr Ester, as the last speaker of this company, perhaps reflect on that? I find that rather absurd, because it is not a new sound. We've been hearing that noise for years and yet we're stuck with that charge. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u52	You are not doing enough for Mr Raven, because he will have the floor in a few minutes. Mr Ester is not the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u53	But I do not think Mr Raven is a member of the coalition. I was talking about the last speaker of the coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u54	You said "the last speaker," but then we understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u55	I can talk about it for a very long time. The Lower House Group is closer to that than the Upper House Group. That is the case with all parties, including ours. Our election programme says that we want to abolish the landlord's upliftment. That's pretty clear. We're the smallest party in the coalition. That will also be the case in the new coalition. That has to do with numerical proportions. But we have always argued in favour, even outside the electoral programme, of abolishing that landlord's upliftment. That is a very clear line, which everyone in my party agrees on. The fact that we didn't make it in the end also has to do with numerical proportions within a coalition. Sometimes it's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u56	That, I think, should not be the case now that three of the four coalition parties say they are in favour of abolition. I have to assume that what we will be hearing tomorrow about the coalition agreement involves abolishing the landlord's tax, otherwise we have to conclude that the VVD is holding the rest hostage. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u57	You may have to ask the VVD that question and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u58	The sad thing is that they are not participating in this debate, but perhaps my colleague will be able to take it up in the whole section.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u59	Of course, I can't help it that the VVD made another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u60	In view of the time, we shall now proceed to Mr Raven as the last speaker on behalf of the Independent Senate Group. Mr Van Apeldoorn has a short question? Just one quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u61	Yeah, a quick question. We're gonna see what's in the coalition agreement. Hopefully we'll be happy about that. It's about next year, 2022. I have also just drawn attention to the rising World War II value and how it translates into the landlord levy next year, if the coalition agreement is probably not implemented yet. How does the Christian Union Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u62	You have put a very clear question to the Minister. I suggest that we wait for the answer to that question. Then we will also determine our position further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u63	Then I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u64	I call Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the landlord's tax. In my contribution I try to raise some constitutional points, perhaps also a tip for the Upper House. Mr. Chairman. The landlord's tax, i.e. where occasional legislation can lead to. The University of Tilburg wrote an essay on impulse legislation a few years ago. We see in recent years that the House of Representatives has dealt with quite a few motions a year; in the last year I believe 5,000. In itself, this is a good thing, an involved parliament, involved by also keeping the finger on the wrist and responding quickly to current issues in society. But it can also lead to what is now before us: occasional legislation. In my opinion, the Netherlands is threatening to destroy occasional legislation and the Upper House should be more critical of it. One example is the Bulgarian incident, which played several years ago. It led to a huge fuss in the Chamber, but it also led to an increase in the tax authorities' controls. There was tunnel vision and it led to the surcharge scandal, with great problems for the extracurricular parents. Even the Council of State had to admit two weeks ago that they had a tunnel vision of that file. In fact, following an incident, legislation was introduced. A second example of impulse legislation is what is before us today. The State had major financial problems in 2013; Mr Ester spoke about it. From 2013 there was a landlord levy. But that was actually also due to an incident. We all remember that there was a large ship in the port of Rotterdam that was suddenly converted into apartments or something like that. That was paid through housing corporations. The discussion started whether they didn't have a lot of reserves. Then that led to a tunnel vision, which now leaves the entire housing market in its hole. So tunnel vision here, too. Nobody really wants to get rid of that until something fundamentally changes. My predecessor Gerben Gerbrandy tabled a motion here in October 2020 to abolish the landlord's tax. That was actually in line with his argument a year earlier, in 2019, when he, as one of the few, raised the theme of the landlord levy, as well as the major problems it caused for housing corporations and the housing market. Mr. Chairman. No one dares to stop, also because of financial aspects. The landlord levy is, of course, a crisis measure and a crisis measure is by definition a temporary measure. There's nothing more structural than temporary. We in the First Chamber should be a little more strict about that. Mr. Chairman. The last example is the non-indexation of pensions from 2008-2009. Big financial trouble. Who's gonna pay the price? Oh, let's put that with the pensioners. Year by year discussions were held on the most important re-introducing indexing, but arguments were always found not to do so, in particular financial arguments. As I said last night, professors have now calculated that it only accounted for 0.25% of the situation in which indexation had continued. That too was a temporary measure, impulse legislation. Where occasional legislation can lead to this, EUR 40 billion has not been paid to pensioners in recent years. I warn the First Chamber to pay attention in future to occasional legislation: take a critical look at it and do not let this type of example go by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes, until 9:55.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u67	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35932, reduction in the rate of landlord's tax and monthly change in the amounts of tax reductions. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u68	President, thank you very much and good morning. It's nice to be back here again, and that's when we deal with the Tax Plan. Especially for me to be here in this Upper Chamber. I also, of course, appreciate that you deal with the landlord tax separately, because I know that you started handling the Tax Plan last night and that you are also spending the rest of this day on the Tax Plan. The reduction in the landlord's tax, which is formally on the agenda through the Tax Plan, is important, because it really makes a substantial contribution to increasing the investment capacity of the housing corporations. The levy will be reduced by 831 million in 2022, as some speakers have just said. There is a concession of 180 million in rent freezing and a general reduction of 500 million linked to performance agreements on housing investment and sustainability as a result of the Hermans motion adopted in the Lower House. Finally, the bill also provides for a reduction of 151 million in compensation for the interest-rate reduction in the same motion. This 500 million tariff reduction translates into approximately 8.6 billion in investment space. That's extra investment space. It reduces the deficit in the corporate sector by over 15 billion to 2035. So that's a big and good step towards solving the deficit. It is a step, but we are not there yet, as the speakers have said this morning. Of course, I know that there are many parties in this Chamber, too, which are often said to be in favour of abolishing that landlord's tax. I have, of course, also informed Parliament about the imbalance between the task and the resources of housing corporations in the longer term. So that desire to do something about it is understandable. In fact, it's necessary. This cabinet has been able to take a number of steps through the tax cuts, through this 500 million reduction, but we have said that it is up to the next cabinet to make choices about further reduction or abolition. By the way, I have great confidence in that when you see what we have already been able to do in social housing. In the knowledge of what needs to be done over the next ten years, the new cabinet has every reason to work hard on it. We are talking about resources, but of course we are also talking about other things: peripheral matters. I am thinking, for example, of the ground positions, the capacity in the construction sector, the role of the municipalities and so on. I believe it was Mrs De Boer who asked if I could give a hint of the veil about the new coalition agreement. I can't. I'm Minister in the Demissionary Cabinet. I am here in this capacity, but I am not a member of the D66 Group either, so I am not part of those negotiations. What I can do is work with what's out there right now. The thing that's going on right now is the discount on the landlord's tax. So I'm talking to Aedes here. I can tell you that these talks are at a final stage in making agreements on the funds released. That is, of course, very important, because the corporations use it very effectively, so that it helps to make the social housing available and also to make the social sector more sustainable. Those conversations with Aedes are very constructive. I informed the House of Representatives about this. I said that I would like to make additional plans with the corporations this year and bring forward existing plans to create more new homes and make them more sustainable than previously foreseen. As part of this, I also want it to be very clear how the housing corporations implement these agreements. The problem is, of course, that housing corporations make performance agreements with their municipalities. That is also good, but we are now looking for a way to make the overall ambition for the whole sector understandable, to actually translate the performance plans into the level of Aedes and the Empire. My ambition is to say, I believe, that those agreements were made before the end of the year. That's an introduction. A lot of questions have been asked and I'm just going to walk by, sort of organized, I hope. In general, it was Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP who established the relationship between inflation and rental policy. In recent times, we have indeed seen reports of rising inflation. For example, monthly inflation in November was very high. But that's not the inflation that's the basis for the rents. That's the average inflation rate over the past year. Then we talk about the period from 1 December to 1 December. It is much lower than the monthly inflation rate of November. We are now seeing an inflation rate of about 2.3%. Moreover, we finally froze the rents, Mr Crone referred to them. They're frozen until June 30th of next year. This means that until then no rent increase should be applied at all. A decision on a future rent rate is obviously up to the new cabinet. Then there were a few questions that were more generally about the housing market, among others from Mrs De Boer. She mentioned a number of other fiscal instruments, which other speakers also spoke about. It mentioned the fact that such schemes may also lead to inequality between buyers and tenants. I think that we have been able to do a lot together over the last few years, fortunately, that is also said this morning in order to improve the affordability of tenants, but also to improve the opportunities for start-ups in the housing market. Of these measures in the rental policy, I mentioned the freezing of rents. I would like to add the one-off rent reduction for low-income people, the temporary rent discount, for starters the housing impulse to ensure that more affordable housing is realized and the possibility for municipalities to give priority to social purchases to start-ups in their municipalities, i.e. those with a middle income. A great deal has therefore been done to make the housing market more accessible to these groups. Well, Mr Crone said it was meant to be a compliment, but it sounded a little different that the Minister is sticking a bit of plaster, because there is a relationship between taxation and housing policy and that is hard to solve with those patches. I fully agree with Mr Crone that these two are intertwined. That seems irrefutable to me. In fact, I think that the low interest rates we have seen over the past period may be the biggest driver behind the rise in house prices. The fact is that consumers could borrow more and pay more for their home. And investors, of course, were looking for returns and found them in the real estate. That's a fact. I also think it is important that tax measures should always be considered on their effects on the housing market. I think that the traditional cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Housing should be good. In the past cabinet period, you have also seen that we have taken steps through the accelerated reduction of mortgage interest rate deductions, the phasing-out of the Wet-Hillen and the differentiation in transfer tax, which means that investors pay much more, 8%, and start-ups 0%. These are measures taken in conjunction with them. Are more or other measures needed? The jubelton is mentioned. Maybe. But that is up to the new cabinet to decide. I'm glad we were able to take steps. I should perhaps also mention the buying-in protection, which we see is going to apply to municipalities, and I am very happy about that. Thanks to the Labour Party in the Lower House, Mr Nijboer, there is the maximation of the rent increase, also in the free sector. That is a fundamental break with the past and with market thinking about the housing market, I shall say. Those steps have been taken and I am as curious as many here to what ambitions the next cabinet will have for the housing market. Then there's the landlord's tax and what it's done. There were questions from Mr Essers and Mr Ester. Mr Ester of the Christian Union paints a very nice picture of the period from 2013 to now. The landlord levy was indeed introduced to generate additional tax revenues. I would like to link to that the way people looked at the forecasts at the time. They were really different than they are now. At the time of introduction, the projections indicated that there were sufficient social housing available in 2013. Then we noticed that we have always adjusted it upwards. The new Housing Act, in 2015, also in the previous cabinet period, focused mainly on managing the existing stock and needed to regulate projects. I think that is understandable, because there were abuses in the sector at the time. We were all outraged at that, too. So that was the context of that time. If you look at now, you can see that from 2013 onwards, the corporations have built less than their own projections then indicated and therefore actually less than what they were financially capable of. All of this has different causes and it is very difficult to determine what was the question that was asked about which part of that lower housing is due to the landlord's tax, certainly a part but I can't tell which part, and which part is due to other causes. We have given up the research and resources. We know from that at least for the future, calculated to 2035, that the corporations have too little resources to carry out these tasks. That is why this cabinet has at least provided the tax rebates to stimulate these investments. So now, in the 2022 budget, the structural tariff reduction of 500 million is added. It was also said, among other things, by Mr Crone, but also by Mrs De Boer and others, that the rise of the World Health Organization would, of course, destroy that reduction of 500 million. This reduction of 500 million will have a structural positive effect on the investment capacity of the sector, because without this reduction we would have a much higher revenue from the levy. That makes sense. So it is not the 500 million but also the 151 million to compensate for the reduction of interest rates and the 180 million to compensate for the freezing of rents. So it's a total of 831 million. So if that WWZ goes up, it will at some point destroy the reduction. I also said that in the written reply. In 2030, the return was recovered from the landlord levy at 2021 level, with the exception of the effect of the tax reduction. If that landlord's tax were just 500 million, it would be sooner. So what those here just said is exactly right for the 500 million. Well, the rise in the landlord's tax due to the WZ increase is indeed a problem for the sector. The cabinet has already acknowledged this, because in the letter on declarations and resources we have already outlined a possible solution for this, which, moreover, assumes that the landlord levy would continue to exist. Then you could make an annual tariff adjustment that would neutralize the effect, which could stabilize the landlord's tax. That was driven by the existence of the landlord's tax. It is, however, a measure with significant budgetary implications. I know that suggestions have also been made in the Lower House. It is said that such a freezing of the landlord's tax costs nothing, but that is not the case, because the budget has already taken into account an increase in the WPA. So the budgetary loss of the WZ value freeze over 2021 rises, from 100 million next year to 600 million in 2026.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u69	Both Mr Crone and Mrs De Boer and I have drawn attention to this problem. I understand what the Minister is saying, that it has budgetary implications. Then she's talking about the years after 2025. I also asked in my first term what it means for the coming year. Can the Minister say anything more about this? Isn't it true that this rising WPA value could lead to a higher return on the landlord's tax for next year than budgeted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u70	No, because that increase is already foreseen. It has already been taken into account in the figures we present. If there is an even faster increase, this could only have an effect in later years, but not already next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u71	So if it is budgetaryly neutral, then there is nothing against freezing the World Health Organisation value for the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u72	The question is whether it would help to freeze the World War II value next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u73	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u74	In my opinion, we have already taken into account the rising WPA value in the estimate. Again, a freeze? I'd be happy to find out exactly how that would work for the second term. What will have a much greater effect next year is, I think, the discount on the landlord's tax granted to housing corporations through the investment impulse, i.e. through the extra building. If that is delayed, it will have an effect. That is a much greater effect than this effect, which seems to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u75	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u76	Of course, that discount's already there. I assume the minister just referred to that. I would appreciate it if the Minister could come back to it in the second term exactly what could be the effect of freezing the World Health Organization value. It is true that the sector is concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u77	I would then like to reduce expectations, because the rise in the World Trade Organisation is following market developments with a delay of 1.5 years. For this reason, the 2022 estimate is already running up. The risk of substantial deviations is particularly low. I do not expect to be able to add much to that in the second term. Again, whether or not to redeem those tax rebates has a much greater effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u78	The Minister said in an interim sense: there were some abuses at the time. She's gonna let that go. I have mentioned in my contribution a miscarriage to which I believe this action has led. What abuses did you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u79	I looked back with you and with some other speakers in this Chamber to the context of 2013. I think we all remember the images, namely that in the sector some housing corporations have explicitly not worked exclusively with the care of social housing. I do not want to highlight one example. Luckily, it's been put to an end, but I just cleaned up the last pieces of Vestia last week. This is one of the examples of a housing corporation that has been in huge trouble due to poor financial management and even poor management of the work they are supposed to do. If you see that you then spend another eight or nine years trying to find a solution to this problem and that the tenants have been affected by it all along, I think that is a good example of what Mr Raven is now referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u80	I think that at the time it also led to acceptance of the landlord levy, partly because the management of the funds was somewhat debatable here and there. You are setting an example yourself. Has it been so clever in retrospect, given all the consequences that the landlord levy has had for the corporations, that we set them up on occasion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u81	I heard in Mr Raven's speech that he was talking about occasional legislation and so on. I do not think it is up to me to give an opinion on something that was introduced in 2013 under very difficult circumstances. Let us not forget that the financial crisis had a huge impact on everyone, but also on state finances. I just wanted to outline the context to explain how this measure could be implemented at that time. Then, of course, you can also discuss the question: if it was a crisis measure, why has it been in the budget for so long? But that's a fact I've had to deal with. I have been able to use it to focus on more new construction in the social sector and more sustainability, because I could start to give those discounts after we decided to do so in a number of budgets. But again, I have always informed the Chamber that it is not sustainable in the long term. Like Mr Raven, I am now awaiting what the new coalition agreement says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u82	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u83	Have you learned anything from this whole process? We're gonna bet something, and we're gonna see what consequences that has for the housing market. They were unintentional, because no one expected these effects. What lessons can we learn from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u84	It is, of course, always extremely important to learn lessons. I have just said that it is very difficult to say which part of the unbuilt social housing is due to the landlord's tax and what is caused by other causes, for example the developments in the housing market and demography, to name but a few. There are a lot of factors that interact with each other. I do agree with Mr Raven that you should try to learn from the past. At the same time, I say that it is not always easy to see all the consequences when such a decision is taken. Then I got some other questions. Mrs De Boer asked about the coherence with other costs incurred by housing corporations. We do have ATAD 1. In its implementation, the government............................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's not possible. We've really looked at that very carefully. There is a state aid problem which does not allow this. I've already briefed the Chamber on that on several occasions. In the course of the examination of the Tax Plan in the Lower House by a number of members, I thought of the Socialist Party, even by amendment, to abolish that corporation tax for housing corporations, for SGEIs, services of general economic interest. That amendment has discouraged the cabinet and it has not been adopted. So I know the problem, both from ATAD and the Vpb, but we have looked at it carefully and see no other options than to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u85	We received a letter from Aedes last week as First Chamber. I don't know if the minister saw that letter, too. It states that an exemption for housing corporations would not apply as State aid, I sum up briefly because it is not an exception to the main rule but an exception to the exception to the main rule. That's my brief summary. I hope I understood that correctly. Perhaps the Minister can respond to that now or in the second term. Is Aedes wrong about this, or is there perhaps a way to separate them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u86	I haven't seen the letter myself, but I'm sure it's in the department now. Of course, we have been discussing this with Aedes and both chambers for a long time. I can assure you that if I had only seen one tiny opportunity to do it, I would have been very happy. But we don't see that possibility. The lawyers of both departments do not see that possibility. Since the introduction of the tax obligation on housing companies in 2008, thus much longer ago, the same rules apply to them as to other taxpayers. We looked at that ATAD very carefully. It is to be commended that Aedes continues to look for opportunities, but we simply did not find them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u87	I'm assuming Aedes isn't just making this up and just writing it to us. So I would very much appreciate it if the Minister or her successor would still respond with a brief note to these Aedes options and why, according to the Minister, they would not be an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u88	Of course. If there's a letter from Aedes, we'll always respond to it anyway. We'll do the same with this letter. I just don't want to raise expectations on that point. Finally, Mr President. Mr Crone spoke in this connection about the Housing Fund. Perhaps I could use the opportunity to express my enthusiasm for the Housing Fund. I am very pleased that the first projects have now been awarded and will soon be launched. It concerns nearly 22,000 homes and their immediate surroundings, especially in the most vulnerable areas in the Netherlands. That is an extremely important step. I would very much like to continue with this, but I have indeed been able to get a once-in-a-lifetime budget for this. I have spoken with very warm words in both the House of Representatives and in all the places where this could be done about the housing fund. I also support the 16 municipalities that took that initiative at the time. They say: improving the quality of life in our neighbourhoods and making that restructuring possible are very important. But also for this reason, this cabinet is extremely outgoing. I can't do everything in this budget anymore. All my hope is also based on the negotiators and the coalition agreement which, as we speak, is being discussed in the political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Minister. That puts you at the end of your first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you for the answers. On this last point. There's still a lot of projects. Can you tell me how much? Especially in Utrecht and The Hague, but also in shrinking areas that fell out of the pot last time because the pot was empty. It would be a shame if they couldn't do anything now for a year. There is a "meevaller" because due to construction delay the discount is less included in the landlord's tax. So there is budgetary money. That's a one-time thing, because one day it's gonna get caught up in it. Isn't it very convenient to solve this with an intertemporal cashier? That's what the autumn note is for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u92	I propose that Mr Crone take that back when my colleague in the finance department is here. It will then explain that what Mr Crone is doing is, in budgetary terms, a bit of a trick. We had 450 million, and we're running out of money at some point. A limited number of projects could perhaps have been awarded if we had a little more money. It seems very sensible to me that the new cabinet should look first and foremost at these projects. It is also important, if you want to continue with this, to look at other projects that have not yet been submitted. These are perhaps even better and more promising projects. But again, I think that's really up to the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u93	Since this motion and your budget are only on the agenda next Tuesday, I might ask you if the Minister of Finance will come along. In the meantime, you can do your homework. I don't mean that derogatory, of course. Let us hope that my motion is superfluous in next week's budget debate on BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u94	I understand I'm having a budget debate in this Chamber next week. That's news to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u95	For me, too, Minister. That hasn't been decided yet. I await the proposals from the committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u96	Perhaps just as well to report that it has been notified, but we will not decide until votes have taken place in the House of Representatives. It has already been mentioned in the committees that my group will appreciate this. We'll see what's decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u97	The procedural meeting will be in the committees this afternoon. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u98	That's what I'm waiting for, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u99	Of course. Then we'll wait together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u100	With tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u101	The Minister has not responded to my intervention. There was no explicit demand in that, but an underlying, implicit one. Maybe the Minister can respond to that after all. Almost 150 MPs in the House of Representatives and 75 here feel that the landlord levy should disappear, but it will still be there next year. How is it possible that 225 sensible parliamentarians will not get rid of this landlord tax next year? My question is: how damaging does the Minister think that this landlord tax will continue next year, albeit reduced, and what is the damage to the solution of the housing shortage and thus to the construction of new homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u102	The Minister, please give me a concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u103	I commend Mr Van Rooijen's creativity, but he is now calculating very creatively. I have just said in my reply that I cannot calculate exactly which part is attributable to the landlord levy. I do know how many extra homes the discount on the landlord's tax led to in the short term. That's another sum. It's a bit more positive, because that's a lot of extra homes. I made agreements with Aedes about 150,000 extra homes in the coming years, thanks to the discounts on the landlord's tax. Indeed, I had not heard a question in Mr Van Rooijen's first term. I've never heard him talk so short. Again, I refer to the new coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u104	That's entrapment. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u105	The groups of the First Chamber are not today considering the draft governing agreement. But perhaps, through colleagues in the First Chamber, I can tell the groups of the new coalition in the Second Chamber that today they are making an insert saying that the landlord levy should be cancelled next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u106	In any case, next year there will be a very substantial discount on the landlord's tax. By adopting the Hermans motion, that is 500 million plus the two additional amounts. So that's 831 million off the landlord's tax. If you look over the entire cabinet period and add this up, you'll see a half ring. Let us hope that this last step can also be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u107	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u108	You give an excellent indication of how the House of Representatives can achieve goals by means of motions, albeit not at all. But my question is really: why did the cabinet not take the last step in abolishing the landlord's tax, in addition to the 3 billion for gas price compensation? That's not clear to me. The outgoing cabinet did not want to take that last step, and it could have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u109	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u110	I think that this outgoing cabinet has done a great deal for a outgoing cabinet, also because the House of Representatives wanted it and there was little controversial statement. We have also tabled the budget. That's not something you know for sure when there's a formation going on. Fortunately, at that time we were also able to make additional funds available for housing. But you have to make choices. We are a missionary cabinet and you should also leave room for the negotiating parties and the agreements on the financial framework for the future. I was very pleased with Prinsjesdag's motion, because it allowed you to give the housing corporations more security for the coming years and also make agreements on construction and sustainability. However, in a situation where elections and negotiations have taken place, I do not find it surprising that you leave such an important decision on such an important issue to the negotiating parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, I had already said it in the event of an interruption. I continue to find it absurd that we all fail to get rid of a landlord's tax, which we all want to abolish. Then there are two very specific points. I welcome the Minister's commitment to send a response to Aedes' letter. But I would like to come back to the point that next year there will be no more revenue because the WPA value would be fixed by now. I read in article 1.6 of the Housing Market Act that the taxable amount is the sum of the WZ value of the rentals. I read it like this: on 1 January of the tax year and not as a minus one. This would mean that the taxable amount can only be determined if the WPA value is established as of 1 January 2022. I understand that it has been estimated, but as I read it, that estimate could still be too low and the actual WZ value could be higher. I would like to make that clear from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to come back to two things. Perhaps the Minister has answered this, but I have missed it. I asked her to respond to the point of Aedes that only a complete abolition of the landlord's tax can enable them to realise the Housing Agenda. And the fact that Aedes states that it is now 2020 that the income from the social housing is lower than the total cost because of all taxes. This also has to do with, among other things, the World Trade Organisation value, which we fear will lead to even higher costs. To be honest, the Minister's answer to this is not entirely clear to my group. I agree with Mr De Boer's question on this. We are therefore tabling the next motion. The: Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr De Boer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the landlord levy continues to increase as long as it is not fully abolished, as a result of the increase in the WPA value;]] [[noting that the proposed reduction of 500 million of the landlord's tax would eventually evaporate completely;]] [[Whereas the increase in the WPA value will result in an increasing landlord levy by 2022;]] [[Whereas this further restricts the investment space of housing corporations and makes it possible to build less affordable housing in 2022;]] [[Calls on the Government to freeze the share of the WFD in the landlord's levy for the year 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35932-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u115	That brings me to the end of my input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to the Minister for her answers. Fortunately, you said yourself that sticking patches sounds positive, because that's what it was meant to be. The market fundamentals are wrong, you cannot do anything about that, but at least you have done the best you can. Of course, we are never satisfied to do anything about it. So that's definitely positive. And at this time, doctors are very popular, and rightly so. So doctors sticking Band-Aids, we need them. I couldn't find a good metaphor with vaccination as soon as possible. So sticking flatters is meant to be very positive. We'll see what the new cabinet's gonna do. Then it's about the World War II value. I support Mrs De Boer and Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. I do understand, from the questions and answers, that next year's Appraisal Chamber, 2022, estimates a higher WPA value than in the budget. The Evaluation Chamber assumes an increase of 9.3%, while the budget assumes 7.8%. So there is already a gap in the World Trade Organisation value in the unexpected case that the landlord levy is not abolished. So in the alternative, to put it another way, that is a bit of a cigar out of its own box. And you have not yet answered my question about the World War II, but that question may be for a new cabinet. You can now always say for citizens and businesses: the WPA value goes up, how much does the rate go down? That's an annual party in every city council. In doing so, you know both the budget and the municipality, but also as a citizen that things will not get out of hand. I believe that the OSF also pointed that out. That's about the World War II. Then there's the housing fund. There is still a gap in the good developments in Utrecht and The Hague, but also in other parts of the country. Can you tell me how much money you'd need? We ask for continuation, for 450 million, but how much would it take to close that hole? Surely that should be possible once, because you cannot explain that you have to end up with a budget that is lower than last year - that 450 million is not in it when the crisis has gotten bigger? Whether it is 450 million or 50 million less, we will indeed have to look at the Minister of Finance. I hope you will be able to make another move on this point. Otherwise, it'll come back to the BZK budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u119	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions of the Christian Union Group. It is clear that this morning's debate will not tip the discussion on landlord tax. The formation table must offer wisdom and outcome here. That's where the direction is now. This week will provide clarity. In the meantime, my group will support the proposal before us on the reduction of the rate of landlord tax. It's not optimal, but given the circumstances, it's the most feasible. All in all, the discount is substantial and offers housing corporations the opportunity to give their investment agenda financial hands and feet. All in all, that's a win. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u121	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I have indicated that occasional legislation is the basis of the landlord's tax. As a society, we pay hard lessons for this occasional legislation. I have mentioned three examples of this. First of all, the supplement scandal, second of all what is happening today, the landlord levy, and thirdly, the non-indexation of pensions over the past 13 years. As a result, 40 billion have not been paid out to pensioners and their purchasing power has fallen by 20%, or even more. Mr. Chairman. Those are tough lessons. I also think that the First Chamber should focus on how we can prevent occasional legislation from ultimately leading to this kind of huge social cost. I therefore propose that we look for criteria to ensure that we do not simply accept this kind of legislation in the future. Mr. Chairman. How do you fix it? You can only solve that by shock therapy. In the case of the surcharge scandal, it has been resolved, not quite yet, but in any case it has led to a fundamentally different view of things. At the landlord's tax, 225 MPs are members of parliament. That's both the First and the Second Chambers, and yet we don't get it from the place. My proposal is simply to stop doing so as quickly as possible. I think it will be over tomorrow if the coalition agreement is published, but we are waiting for it. Mr. Chairman. There are plenty of resources, so there are also resources to simply not collect the landlord's tax next year. If there are no other resources available, my proposal is to use the 2021 surplus for that purpose. This will undoubtedly come out again in March or April. This will solve the problem of the landlord levy for 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u122	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? I hear that's not direct, so I'm suspending for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u123	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the speakers who have spoken in the second term. Most of the comments and also the motion tabled by Mr Van Apeldoorn were about the World Trade Organisation value. I double-checked that. That's why I just asked for a few minutes. It's like I said in the first term. I must therefore discourage the motion because of its budgetary effects, but the main reason is actually more substantive. The estimates show this increase in the WMD value, which is based on a market value of one and a half years ago. That's just taken in the next year. That is why it makes no sense to do something about that year 2022. We have now estimated it on the basis of the World Health Organisation value of a year and a half ago. That's all included in those big sums.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u125	I think what the Minister is saying is contradictory. On the one hand, she says: that's all budgeted and planned. But at the same time she says: I must discourage the motion because of its budgetary effects. It is in the operative part of the motion for a resolution for the year 2022. What are these budgetary effects, then, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u126	The budgetary impact will be 100 million in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u127	Well, then it does matter. That is what the Minister is actually saying. Next year's WZ value will increase by 100 million in return for the landlord's tax. Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u128	I'm actually saying two things. I say I wouldn't do it that way, because in the system the World Health Organization value is counted with a year and a half ago. That's part of the whole thing. If your Chamber asks what budgetary effect it will have to do in that motion, which is to freeze the share for 2022, then it will have an ongoing effect in the following years, ascending from 100 million until I believe 500 million in 2025, and that is why I advise against that motion. Those are actually two different reasonings. I understand that Mr Van Apeldoorn wants to hear that it is one argument, but there are actually two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u129	I understand the Minister's dissuading the motion. I would have been surprised if she hadn't. But in my view, the Minister is actually saying, in so many words, that this motion will actually help the housing corporations, because the tax burden they feel now would go down. I think that is a warm plea for this motion, if we want to get rid of it, or if we want to help the housing corporations next year at least in terms of this antisocial tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u130	I was also a little struck, because I also thought: it cannot be both true, that it will have no effect and that it will cost 100 million next year. I heard the Minister say two different things. That the market value of one and a half years ago is taken into account for determining the WPA value. And I heard the minister say that the World War II value was counted a year and a half ago. I don't think the latter is true. That first can be true; I don't know. I would like it, and perhaps others too, if we could get the Minister's statement on exactly what is going on and when the World Health Organization value is set on the basis of what, for next week, will be on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u131	I'd be happy to. Then I will also refer to documents that you already know and in which they are. Of course. I'd be happy to. Mr. Chairman. The second point that was raised was Mr Crone's point about the Housing Fund. He was talking about a hole. Strictly speaking, it is not a hole if you have a certain amount and you spend that whole amount. Then there's no hole. But Mr Crone is right that more proposals have been made by the municipalities. He mentioned a few. So they are still on the shelf in a way. If you had the resources to do so, you could choose to continue with those projects. But I also said that if I had the resources, I might choose to look at more proposals and then get the best projects out of them. Again, I can't do that anymore. I very much hope that the new cabinet and my successor on this portfolio will have that luxury, because I am very much in favour of these projects. I believe that restructuring in the neighbourhoods where it is most needed is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u132	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u133	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled.
