ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u1	We're moving forward quickly to the two-minute debate on the accommodation of a missing-dial at Burgernet. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security, the MPs and the viewers at home. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21 for his two minutes. If you can wait one more moment, we will also do a small change on this side. We can't move on until the clerk sits down. She's sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I think this is a very important subject. In fact, only a written debate has been held on the subject of the controversial statement of the subject of child disappearances. This is about how we recover children who are abducted or missing as quickly as possible by involving the general public. It is currently called AMBER Alert; the system is known. There's a lot going on with that. We do not need to go ping-pong all over everything now, but it means that I am pleased with the very constructive attitude of colleagues towards each other to put this on the map and to keep it on the map, and to ensure a solution, so that we keep the most effective way to find children who are missing as soon as possible, and so that this alerting continues to come to the attention of the general public. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution. On behalf of my fellow Members, I would like to thank them once again for their cooperation and goodwill. This is also the case with the Minister, whom I was able to consult on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas alerting missing children is of particular importance to finding missing, abducted or life-threatening children;]] [[noting that the current AMBER Alert is well known, rapidly spreading and wide-ranging, and that international cooperation is regulated;]] [[Considering that investigation is a public task, but that stopping a successful initiative that works well entails risks and the key question should be how missing children can be tracked and found as well and as quickly as possible;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the agreement with AMBER Alert is extended for a specified period in order to provide the police and AMBER Alert with the opportunity, in the interim period, to engage in a process that preserves the benefits of AMBER Alert as much as possible, including its range, reputation, cooperation with partner organisations and international engagement;]] [[and invites the Government to inform the Chamber in writing before 1 October, or if appropriate at an earlier date,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Kathmann, Mr Van der Werf, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29668-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u4	I'll see if there's still a need for a second term or if we stick to the... Yeah? I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Michon-Derkzen. Do you still need a second term? Very briefly? Go ahead. I thought, looking at the unity and emotion... That would be nice, wouldn't it? But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is this consensus, but I would also like to stress from my group that the system is obviously subordinate. We need to get everything out of the closet to find a kid who's missing. AMBER Alert did a very good job on that. I also understand very well the written consultation that the police are now assuming that responsibility. It is also a public task; let us not play a hide-and-seek about it. It is a good thing that the police want to pick this up, but my group is very keen that this is done with a warm thought and that we also keep the good things of AMBER Alert going, even if it is with the police. That is why we supported this motion. I assume that AMBER Alert and the police will work together in the period up to October to ensure that what we are doing is maintained, namely that children are tracked down as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mrs. Kathmann. No? Neither does Mrs. Van der Werf. Then Mr Van Nispen. Mrs. Helder, I don't think you wanted to, either, do you? Isn't it? Okay. First Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, missing a child is every parent's nightmare. Sometimes it keeps the moods in society really busy. The key question must therefore be: how can a child best be found and traced? In principle, detection is a public task, not even "in principle"; it is simply a public task. The same applies to the detection of missing children. But, as previous spokesmen have said, if it is working properly now, and it is doing so; AMBER Alert has a great reputation and has good results, then you must indeed be convinced that a change in that system will only benefit the detection. We do not yet have that conviction. That is why I believe we are sending the Minister with a clear message. I would like to stress that I am very much in favour of the Minister using these coming months to do his utmost to reach an agreement. It is too important to make it a prestige contest, where the police say they can do better or AMBER Alert says they can do better. That's not the point. In the end, it must be about the Minister coming back to the Chamber with this clear mandate and explaining to us how it can be placed as a public task while preserving the benefits that exist today. If the Minister succeeds, we will have a new situation. That is why I think there is a very clear deadline in the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Then I'd like to ask you something. Mrs Helder, you did not participate in the debate. Under the new Rules of Procedure, therefore, I must ask for permission. Is it possible for Mrs Helder to speak a few words after all? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Helder of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members. I have already brought something I have received from Mr Hoen from AMBER Alert in the past. The sympathy of my group will therefore now be very clear. I would like to make a few comments, although we have not provided any input. For us it is clear that AMBER Alert is a matter of life or death when such a message comes out. It has a very big reputation. I can't imagine a citizen jumping into all the scenarios when he sees a report from Burgernet, because that just sounds less urgent than an AMBER Alert. We want to make good use of this time so that, as Mr Eerdman's motion says, there is a warm handover. We are not convinced of this either, seen and read the Minister's answers, because it seems that the Minister wants to give the impression that AMBER Alert was wrong in the judgment of the Council of State, but that is not the case. The content has simply not been taken into account. The Chief Constable's letter is not a decision. Every administrative lawyer will know that the content has not been discussed. We'll do that here today. I think it is fine that the police want to take over, but I think it is very important to ensure that AMBER Alert and Mr Hoen take the lead here. If he has the confidence that there will be a good and warm transfer, so does my group. I will therefore advise my group to support Mr Eerdmans' motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I will see if the Minister is prepared to give his appreciation of the motion immediately and, if necessary, to give a single response. Yes, I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u11	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Van Nispen has quite rightly said something about how incredibly deep it is and how awful it is to miss your child. This has already given the importance of a very careful design and implementation of an alert system, as it has worked very well in recent years. That is why I think it is important, with regard to Mr Eerdmans' motion, for the police and the current owner, Netpresenter B.V., to have the opportunity to speak again very well: how can we really get along in a win-win situation? I also understand that we would do well to say that I will inform your Chamber further by 1 October at the latest. I would, of course, like to repeat the invitation I made to your Chamber to hold a technical briefing on this matter, because of the busy work your Chamber has not had the opportunity to do so, because precisely because of the great importance of this case, it is very much in the first place that we are making sure that we know exactly what the outcome of these talks is or how we are going to proceed in the best way on 1 October. So I'm giving Court judgment to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this two-minute debate. I would like to welcome the Minister... Well, not welcome, but thank you very much for his response and his appreciation. I thank the MPs and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-24-tweedekamer-13.u13	I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we will start with another two-minute debate, namely on the Temporary Law Groningen.
