ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u1	A warm welcome to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We are now discussing the VSO Voorhang concept-AMvB Decision implementing Crisis and Recovery Act. There are only two speakers on the side of the Chamber in this debate. Let's get started quick before someone else cancels. That is why I am happy to give the floor to Mr Koerhuis, who always speaks, in my opinion, day and night, and who never misses an opportunity to say anything. The floor is up to him. He has a maximum of two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take my controlling task seriously. I have a motion on behalf of the SO. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under the Environmental Act municipalities can place a more stringent energy requirement on new buildings than the Rural Building Decision indicates;]] [[whereas this means that Amsterdam will no longer be able to calculate any major construction plan and to raise the housing shortage;]] [[calls on the government to carry out an impact analysis on the construction costs for any municipality that wishes to impose a stricter energy requirement locally, thus avoiding a brake on the new building, and to inform the Chamber accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the House of Lords.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32127-245]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u3	Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question for the Minister. Not only Amsterdam is notorious for its brake on the new building, but also Utrecht. A motion was passed by this Chamber to give Utrecht a clue to build in Rijnenburg. In the meantime, that happened last year. I wonder when the motion will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u4	Thank you. Then we had another speaker: Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party. But I don't see it. Let's see if he's gonna show up right now. No, he just wants to be home in time to watch the Eurovision Song Contest. I know him a little bit. Well, I guess I'll give the Minister the floor right away. I hear from the Minister that she even has to think about this. Well, then we'll suspend. Yes, you can have all the time in the world!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u5	The Minister has the floor. It can be short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u6	Thank you for this invitation, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Mr Koerhuis for the motion and his question. First of all, I shall do it in the order he himself had. The motion calls for an impact analysis for every municipality that wants to impose a stricter energy requirement locally. My point is that municipalities already do this locally. They're already doing this themselves, and it's up to them, too. It's local decision-making, and the board is talking about this. I do not really think that we need to interfere in this by means of such a general impact analysis. So I'm deceiving the motion. Then there is Mr Koerhuis' second question. I thought for a moment that I had not quite understood it and that he might have referred to another motion. A check with my officials showed that it is really about the motion on Rijnenburg. Right? Yeah, exactly. Well, that surprised me a little bit in this debate. I did indeed inform the Chamber by letter how to deal with Mr Koerhuis' motion, because it was adopted. In the letter, I think, the route is also outlined. This process requires a lot of research together with the region and with the municipality of Utrecht. It has to connect to the MIRT, because of the cost of accessibility associated with housing at the Rijnenburg site. That's what I promised the Chamber. It is the first step towards what the motion calls for, but it is a necessary step. Much remains to be done, but that step has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u7	Very briefly, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u8	Of course, if a municipality made an impact analysis, the minister doesn't have to do it again. Then she can just send it to the Chamber. Let me turn to the motion for a resolution on Rijnenburg. That motion doesn't call for an investigation, it calls for a lead. I would therefore like to ask the Minister when this point will be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u9	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u10	Suppose you'd like to give a clue, which is indeed what the motion calls for, then you really need to get a picture of where you're admitting that clue. That's what I said in the letter. That letter is not a rejection or anything similar to what the Chamber has requested. I am very much aware that the motion calls for a lead, but the investigation and the link to the MIRT are steps that need to be taken first in order to consider properly and properly whether you would like to give such a lead. I have often talked to the Chamber about this being the last resort and that this is very often not even necessary. Even at Valkenburg, that didn't happen in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u11	Fine, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-20.u12	On Tuesday we shall vote on the motion.
