ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. It's good to see you guys again. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is not good enough to be able to relax further now. But it doesn't get any worse either. The vaccination really comes on steam, so better times are in sight. And the vaccines work: fewer people die from corona and in the nursing homes we see fewer infections. That is exactly why we started with the elderly and the most vulnerable. Because the oldest and most vulnerable Dutch people often didn't end up on the ic but died, we don't immediately notice it in the hospital figures. I think that will be the next step. Because now the people are vaccinated who, given their age, often ended up on the ic. So in a few weeks we can count on less ic-tax for the same or a higher number of infections. But we're not there yet. In addition, we have high expectations of rapid tests. Hopefully you'll be able to do more with a vaccine or a negative rapid test later. I have heard colleagues talk about this in high voices over the last few weeks. Politicians who call the most for a vaccination passport to be issued also say that with a recent negative test result you can have the same as with a vaccine. Politicians who are critical of priority with a vaccine also say that priority with a vaccine is acceptable if people with a recent negative test result are allowed to do the same. In short, I believe that there is more consensus on this point than there is a difference. This may not be ideal for the campaigns, but it is good for the country. So let's get to work on this now. Doing things like shopping, going to the city hall or the doctor, of course everyone, whether you've been vaccinated or not, whether you've been tested recently, as long as you're not in quarantine and have corona problems. But if you want to go to a festival, a football stadium or another event, you have to have the green light: a vaccine or a recent negative test result. In order to do this, it is important that we have enough quick tests, that we use them and that we learn to deal with them. In Austria they have already introduced home tests for school children and in Germany they are now at the Lidl for €22 per five. I'll let them be at the Jumbo, the Appie or the Aldi; I don't care if it happens soon. Then why isn't that the case here? And when is it gonna be there? How do we organize it so that when you get a negative result at home, you also know you're allowed to go somewhere, that that leads to a green light? As long as I am on the subject of events for which you need the green light: such an event can't be open to us until July 1st. When I read the answers to the questions, I get the feeling that we have a guarantee fund with reserved money, but that we have arranged it in such a way that that money is not really needed. That's fine. It is nice for taxpayers if they do not have to, but such a guarantee fund is also there to cover risks. The organizers are ready. I think that in June, which is quite a logical month to organise events, the local authority, the mayors, will have a problem if there are EK-games of the Dutch national team and there is nothing organized and we let it go. I think that leads to public order problems. Is the cabinet therefore prepared to talk to them, with the Security Council, about the month of June, about events around the European Championships or not, and whether it is wise to open the guarantee fund to that effect? Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the cabinet, in consultation with sectors, has now cleverly designed the purchase by appointment. This gives me hope that the cabinet will not invent the reality behind the drawing board, behind the desk, but will engage in discussions with people in practice, so that if we can, in a few weeks' time, hopefully, ease further in, for example, the catering industry, we can also do so so smartly and in cooperation. Unfortunately, we do not always see this clever cooperation in the implementation of the support packages. We see arrangements from September, such as those for the brown fleet, which have still not led to payment. We see support that everyone wants and that can also be implemented, are still on hold because we are waiting for an approval nodding from Brussels. At the same time, the European Commission is giving interviews in which it calls on countries not to stop aid too quickly and not to cut it down too quickly. Can I ask the Cabinet to at least make sure that the TONK doesn't do it again? That money goes through the municipalities and is intended to help entrepreneurs with their private costs while they are already in debt with their business. I hear a lot of different sounds from congregations. Some municipalities reserve small amounts by default and don't look at who's in front of them. There are municipalities that want to work with loans. Other municipalities say to a catering company: I immediately assume that you are having a hard time and I will help you immediately with your private interests and paying your mortgage or your rent. That money is meant to help and municipalities must feel, also by what the cabinet says about it, that they can really do that, that they can really help. Because we have to do what we can to get through this period together and make that finish line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	Madam President. The Netherlands wants its freedom back. Entrepreneurs want to do business again. People want to go back to the old normal, but the cabinet still keeps the Netherlands completely locked and that is incomprehensible. Because the reopening of shops and restaurants, for example, can be done in a responsible manner with respect to the basic rules without increasing the number of infections. And it is completely incomprehensible that the most far-reaching freedom-limiting measure, the curfew, should be renewed, while there is still no proper justification; the measure which the Prime Minister said at the time of its introduction was the first one to throw it in the garbage can. Prime Minister Rutte's umpteenth lie since he became Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. We're being talked into fear. We are scared of the outdoors, while the risk of contamination with corona outside is virtually nil. There's all these rules outside of which you have to stick to, otherwise you're gonna get a fine. Parks, forests and dunes are closed when the government finds it too crowded. It's too ridiculous for words. Mr. Chairman. We are also scared and we are forbidden to grab a terrace or go out to dinner, while it was very soon clear that the catering sector, which has been closed since 14 October last year, is not the danger. We are also encouraged to go shopping, while shops are also very well able to comply with the basic rules, with their own protocols. So what are you doing, Prime Minister Rutte? You're holding a whole country hostage in fear and freedom. For months now, the Netherlands has longed for perspective. With the elections on the doorstep, the cabinet now comes up with some vague promises and meanwhile the catering industry goes bankrupt and shopkeepers go head-down. As a retail representative said, I quote: entrepreneurs breathe through a straw, thousands go bankrupt and the cabinet does not see it. That's a truth like a cow. We no longer need Rutte and De Jonge's "hold on" talk, but solutions. Not an unacceptable urge and division in the form of vaccination certificates, but low-threshold bladder tests, access tests, so that the catering and events industry can be completely open again. And I ask the cabinet, where are they? Where are these tests? What's taking so long? Mr. Chairman. The solution lies, of course, in vaccinating people who want to, so voluntarily, and of course, first of all, the people who lie most often on the ic... how many times do I have to repeat it here? On average, 64 years of age with a condition. Can the Prime Minister state whether it is true that this group has only been invited, but that it has not even begun? Is that right? When are you gonna start with that group and when are you gonna be done with that? Mr. Chairman. Because the care has been broken down over the past decade, hospitals, ICU departments and emergency services have been closed down and we even now have fewer ICU staff, regular care has become scandalously the child of the account during the corona crisis. The Tilburg Elisabeth-TwoCities Hospital last weekend indicated that the delayed care certainly caused complications for 68 people, but probably much more, and even seven patients died. And that in only one hospital. One lady didn't appear to have a jaw infection, but when she couldn't get to the hospital until three months later, cancer with metastases, to which she died. Another 80-year-old lady with blood in her stool had to wait six months for a check-up, and then it was too late. She too died, due to lack of sufficient care capacity, due to carelessness of the VVD. Unhuman dramas. With so much human suffering, I can only get very sad and very angry, because the cabinet was not in order and that should never happen again, but never again. Finally, Mr President. The Netherlands wants its freedom back. You can do that, in a safe way. Promote outdoor stays. Get rid of that horrible curfew. Let the restaurants and shops open with their responsible protocols. That's fine. They're gonna go down right now. Give the Netherlands back his freedom. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mr Dijkhoff said at the beginning of his first term, it is not going well enough for all kinds of relaxations now. Monday at the press conference but also this morning at the technical briefing you saw the cord dance to keep the virus under control and at the same time give society and the economy the space that is so nicked. In addition, after a slow start with vaccination, the Netherlands is now really on pace in terms of vaccination. If you read the letter, you'll see it's going much faster in the next few weeks. A hopeful perspective arises from that. However, although there are no great relaxations in the letter, there are some important additions for people: the swimming lessons for children can start again, the outdoor sports for adults, but also the space for large shops to receive more people by appointment. I believe that this is very important for many sectors. Think of the ornamental cultivation for the garden centres, which will have a very important period in spring in the coming weeks. When it comes to the terraces, a perspective is outlined towards the Easter weekend. I would like to ask the following question again. It is now very cold and smoky outside and very rainy. But if it's going to be a very sunny spring weekend, I'm still not convinced, not even with the letter sent by the Cabinet, that it would be worse to regulate on those terraces than when people start hanging out again, because they go out massively. That is why I would like to ask the question again: how can the terraces, especially when it gets sunny in the Easter weekend, be used to spread better, better regulation? Walking trails, that's what Jaap van Dissel was talking about this morning. Where this is done earlier in the spring, I think you can do some shopping by appointment, if necessary you can visit the terrace by appointment. Surely there must be ways in which this commitment leads to less spread than when people start forming uncontrolled groups when it's sunny spring weather? Of course, we all hope so, but at the same time it will lead to people going out massively. That's what you're gonna have to assume. I think the Prime Minister said on Monday in one sentence that the emergency packages would be looked at again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr President, allow me to ask my colleague from the CDA about the terraces. Last time he also mentioned the terraces and the wall. Then he also made that point whether it shouldn't be sooner. The cabinet did not do that at the time and said: we come up with a perspective. Now that's Easter weekend, April 5th, 6th, 7th. If the weather gets better in the next few weeks, shouldn't the cabinet do it sooner? Otherwise, people go to parks, and I know what to do. Are you actually going to ask the Cabinet to do that? Or are you going to ask something like last time and if the cabinet says, "No, we don't," then accept that that doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	I do not have my agenda with me, but according to Mr Wilders a little mistaken. It is precisely the last week of March and not the first week of April, at least in the letter from the cabinet. I asked if the terraces could not be used to get a better distribution. The cabinet writes that the risk is that these terraces will lead to more alcohol consumption, unsafe situations and more spread. My question is this: if you have a nice Easter weekend, will you not get that on the walls that Mr Wilders and I talked about during the previous debate? I am not going here now, as I said to Mr Wilders in the previous debate: open them up. That is, with the nature of the number of infections, unwise to me. But I am standing here to repeat a point I made earlier to see if this can't help. I am not yet convinced that this is not the case. But I'm not gonna open it unilaterally right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think the cabinet said something about those terraces around the Easter weekend. The Easter weekend is April 5th and 6th, so that's just a week later than you think. I think I've got that data in my head. But my point is this. It is quite without obligation if you call it every debate. People at home think that the CDA stands up for the catering industry and for the people on the terraces. But then you don't do anything about it, when you're so right. The moment you don't and the weather gets nice, people go out anyway. Exactly as you say, they're going out massively. They'll sit in a park with their beer or glass of wine or do something else. So it's so true what you say: you can do it better regulated on the terrace. Then you're gonna help the catering people with it one more time. So my point is now that you call it for the second debate in a row and that it cannot be every time you do, but if the Minister of Health says 'no, we are not going to', you will go back into your loft. You wouldn't call that twice for nothing, would you? You have an influence on the debate here, don't you? We could table a motion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	We tabled a motion on this in the previous debate. It has also been supported by the House of Commons. That has therefore led to a request to the cabinet in that debate. The moment you insert a point, even if you do it repeatedly, it is not without obligation. That also applies if you do not then table a motion and even if you do not table a motion that says: I demand it immediately. That doesn't quite fit in with the controlling task. I'm not putting it back in for nothing. I still have doubts as to whether, for example, I did not make that suggestion in the previous debate on terraces by appointment, in line with shopping by appointment, could not lead to better regulation. I'm curious to hear the answer from the cabinet. When it comes to the date, I think the cabinet preludes at the end of March, even though the Easter weekend falls after that. I'd like to give you this question and suggestion. I want to wait for the answer in the first term. But it's by no means the case that you're bringing something in here in this house without any commitment if you don't force something directly with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u12	When it comes to those emergency packages, we are also very concerned about the TVL and about companies that have been going through their reserves over the last few months and that may be falling over with the view of the port. My question, I believe, is that Mr Dijkhoff is in the Cabinet's office at an early stage: is it not in line with expectations, if we have to get through the next few months or weeks, that something is still happening to that TVL? The same goes for the TONK scheme, the Temporary Support Necessary Costs all those abbreviations we have with each other. There is through municipalities to ensure that for example flex workers and zzp'ers pass through this coronawinter. You hear and you read in all kinds of newspapers that municipalities deal with it very differently. One municipality explains him well and the other very limited, especially because municipalities are afraid that there is too little money for it. But the cabinet has asked for this arrangement to be implemented generously. What is the government going to do to ensure that municipalities then do so and that thosezzp'ers and flexworkers receive the support that this scheme was intended for? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with one final point. That's a letter that came last night. It concerns a motion that Mr Wilders and I tabled together in November on a national healthcare reserve. That was a commitment from Minister Van Ark in the previous debate. I missed it in the corona letter, but I'm glad it was sent back last night. When I read the letter, there's a reserve of 6,500 people built up right now. That's a hopeful start, you might say. At the same time, if you read through, it says in the letter that only less than 2,000 people have actually been introduced to healthcare organisations and that they have not even been accepted. That's what the letter says. Those last two things alienated me. Because if you have 6,500 people, why are there barely 2,000 proposed and why aren't they accepted at all? What's the reason for that? There's a shortage, isn't there? In the second track the Minister talks about, steps are carefully taken towards the summer to build that further. But not only the CDA, also the PVV and many more parties say that we need such a national healthcare reserve towards the future. Then I think the steps are very careful. I really think that can help, even in the event of shortages in possible future health crises. Surely there should be a reserve for tens of thousands of people when you see how many people leave care? Then I ask the cabinet: can this not be picked up with a little more effort?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u13	I just wanted to thank you, but Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u14	He's coming to thank me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u16	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u17	This is an important point. I believe that a motion from both of us on this issue has been supported by Parliament. It's very important that we get such a care reserve. Indeed, what has been done so far, as you say, is very disappointing. Especially when it comes to the 2,000 that have been accepted, when we need 10,000, knowing that indeed, last year alone, 100,000 people left care. Would it be an idea to ask the Minister for Medical Care to come up with some sort of national campaign, just like the national defence reserve used to? Shouldn't you be in the interest of the Netherlands with videos on television calling people big? People should also be proud to be a part of that. Shouldn't we be doing a national campaign to get to that national healthcare reserve so that we can turn those 2,000 into 10,000 people as soon as possible? Would you support such an idea to motivate the Minister, who might also think it is a good idea, to go further with it and come up with such a national campaign?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u18	My answer has two parts. The first is a small factual correction, because it is even more worrying than Mr Wilders says. Two thousand have not been accepted. There are 2,000 offered, which have not even been accepted yet! There's a kind of double layer in there that I think is: what does this actually say? But we have the same concern. The letter mentions four tracks on which the cabinet intends to use. That can be harder and it can be more. I think Mr Wilders' suggestion that we set up a kind of national campaign there, not a very crazy one. I would like to hear the reaction of the cabinet, but I think that if you make that up, it can make a great contribution to increasing that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u19	But now I'm really gonna thank you. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona virus has had our country and all of us in its grip over the past year. When I look back at the news of March 10, 2020, I hear that four people died from the virus and I hear Mr. Rutte say: do not shake hands anymore and use a paper handkerchief. If you were to look at tonight's news, you can hear that there have been over 1 million positive tests, 25,000 hospitalizations and 16,000 registered coronados by now. These are unreal numbers, but it's the hard reality. The fight against the virus and its impact on care, the economy and culture is unprecedented, such as delayed care for cancer and heart patients, a historical shrinkage of the economy with many affected entrepreneurs, increased study and learning disadvantages and lower school advice, not to mention the loneliness that prevails among all age groups. In the 33rd Corona debate we are holding together, I would therefore like to stress, even more than ever before, the need for perspective, because that is what the Netherlands is longing for. We can go that way. This calls for a broader approach, in which we continue to listen to the experts of the OMT. They give important advice and also have an equal regard for the advice of social and economic experts. 'Cause Corona's gonna be between us for a while. That is why we must dare to think, to weigh up safe and responsible risks and to make political choices. D66 does. We want to give more freedom to people with a negative test and to people who have been vaccinated. Where Sigrid Kaag was the only one to press the green button during the RTL debate, I now see movement among other parties. I think that's a good thing. In order for that to become a reality, I ask the cabinet for three things. Leave fewer vaccines on the shelf and stick them out faster, as they do in Denmark. Make available on a large scale free quick tests that people can also take at home, such as in Germany and England. The word "free" is important in this respect, because if tests are too expensive, there is inequality about who is likely to be able to use that freedom again. Thirdly, introduce a test and vaccine certificate so that people can get more freedom on a voluntary basis, as we already see in Israel. This is also possible here in the Netherlands. The cabinet is working on that, but I ask: can this be done faster than in the summer? That is what we see today in Spain, for example, where we want to introduce it as early as May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u21	In itself, I support that idea of a broader approach and I can imagine that you say: bear in mind that the virus can stay among us for longer than previously assumed. However, I have a question if there seems to be some kind of test or vaccination certificate for the reopening of society in certain sectors. How can I see this in the light of the very principled attitude of D66 at the time with the CoronaMelder app, where this anti-abuse clause could not actually be triggered sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u22	Rightful question, but there is a second question, namely: how do you ensure that all data is safe? We debated data leaks at the GGD not so long ago. So if you're gonna put in a test and a vaccine, you need to be able to do it safely and responsibly. I myself am charmed by the example from Estonia, where you can actually only use a QR-code "I don't know if there is a Dutch word for that, excuse a green check mark, see if anyone has been tested or vaccinated. So there's not a lot of complicated things to do with that. You don't want anyone at the front door of a shop or a festival to be able to see very much in detail why you need access. So that needs to be looked at carefully. I also see that the European Parliament is now on top of that in the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u23	I understand the orientation towards other countries, but I still want to take a look at it from the more principled approach that D66 chose earlier: all wonderful that digital support, but it can't be that it will also make up for access to society. The example of the soccer coach was mentioned; it should really stay out of it. Only the government can steer, but not the society that is going to use digital means as an access ticket itself. Does D66 think otherwise now? Or how am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u24	Once you use digital resources, you want it to be secured in a good way. So if the app, which has also been announced by the Minister, comes, we will of course assess whether it is safe and responsible. I don't think it matters very much whether the yellow book or an app is your ticket in the end. That is another ethical discussion that we need to have with each other. In addition, my party now makes the following weighting. With all the measures taken over the last 12 months, we have also greatly reduced freedom and fundamental rights. The question is whether with a test or vaccine certificate you can not give back part of that freedom in a responsible way, where that voluntaryity is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u26	As I said just now, Spain announced today that with such a test and vaccine certificate they may not be able to reopen society to a large extent in the summer, but already in May. It would be very nice if it could be at that rate, because it would be a shame if we had to wait until the last Dutchman was vaccinated. We can no longer ask young people and students who are already struggling with depression to stay home any longer. Nor can we ask for this from the elderly who unite, and not from the entrepreneurs who fear the survival of their business. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the cabinet outlined a perspective on easing at the end of this month. That is something that makes many people happy: a dot on the horizon that you can actually prepare for. Unfortunately, there was no room for real relaxations in this round. Given the figures, in particular the number of hospitalisations, but also the high number of infectious people, I can understand that. However, I would like to ask the cabinet to look at the next round, at the end of this month, not only at relaxations for higher education, terraces, shopkeepers and gyms, but also at the curfew again. To what extent is it proportional when you make such a move? Mr. Chairman. We are now more than a year after the start of this pandemic in the Netherlands. We're at a tipping point. Let's use that tilting point to vaccinate faster in the next few days, test more free, and a vaccine and test certificate to really win back that freedom with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u27	In a subtlety, Mr. Jetten mentioned the curfew. But where are the principles of D66 about curfew? One time, you've gone down your knees and said, "Okay, you'll have to do it once." Meanwhile, the curfew has been extended just about more often than the Dutch musical soldier, namely for the umpteenth time. It'll stop, won't it, for you, I suppose? I've seen zero support. The Minister of Justice himself said: people grow along with the curfew. That was an abject remark, as if people were growing with unfreedom. Well, okay, the Justice Minister is wrong, but you're from a liberal party that says, at least, that we can't just use him or extend him? Then why do you once again support the umpteenth extension of curfew?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u28	I also totally disagreed with the statements made by Minister Grapperhaus. Last week I was allowed to speak to a number of students during online guest classes. Last Monday I also spoke to a number of young people in Laak here in The Hague. What stayed with me very much was the story of Angello, who told me: I haven't been to school for so many months and not to my internship, I can't go to the gym, and because of that curfew I've been home all night and lost my social life. So the whole idea of people growing along with it is really far from me. It is a very far-reaching measure, and I also agreed with a great deal of resistance when it had to be introduced because of the British mutation. So my appeal to the cabinet is also: if you can look at multiple relaxations very widely in two weeks' time, take the weighting into account as to whether or not the curfew should be extended. I also have the question: if you soothe in several areas, how proportional is the maintenance of curfew? I am also very interested in the legal advice on this. I refer also to debates which Mr Van der Staaij and I have had before on the proportionality of such a heavy substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u29	I agree with Mr Jetten that this is about the most serious means of restricting people's freedom. It seems like the cabinet is more or less admitting that it is being used as some kind of change: if we keep the curfew now, then perhaps we can do a, b and c. With a number of measures you might be able to justify this, but not by taking away our freedom? You have just mentioned young people and their social lives, but there are others who can use them well or find it fundamentally wrong to be kept at home by the government. The cabinet now uses curfew as change. Do you think, bearing in mind the Prime Minister's statement that he would be the first to surrender those were his promises, which he has not complied with, that we should just get rid of that curfew now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u30	Of course, I often get that question during the campaign. People say: the Prime Minister has promised that curfew will come off; when will that happen? That requires a good explanation from the cabinet. I think it is also the combination of curfew and visitor control for many people, which has put a great deal of social life at a standstill. To be honest, I don't see that change either. I think there are two things. The first is the plea not only to look at the OMT, but also to look at the wider societal impact. You want higher education to open up to prevent study and learning disadvantages. The curfew and the visitor scheme are there because of the fear of the British mutation. So I wouldn't want to sweep that up either. I would also like to ask the cabinet to keep weighing that up, to give it a good basis and then to come back to the Chamber with a proposal in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u31	I have always seen D66 as a party that stands for equality and not organising a two-stream society. If we move towards a two-stream society using vaccination certificates, vaccination passports, test certificates, etc. to access certain facilities, then I wonder how this is in line with the idea that we organise equality in society for those people who do not want to be vaccinated on the basis of basic beliefs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u32	For those people there is then a choice to obtain the same access with a quick test. So there are two choices. It is up to each individual to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u33	At the same time, during the previous debate, we discussed the need for ethical balance. The cabinet has indicated that it would come with a letter and that we would have a debate on it, because there are quite a few disadvantages. For example, you have already mentioned data storage and data storage. Are you confident that this is going to happen right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u34	Those are the preconditions that we need to lay down. I believe that I belong to a large number of people in the Netherlands, but also in other European countries where this same discussion is taking place. I am convinced that if we can do this in an orderly way, with these free self-tests or with a vaccine certificate, we can give society back a great deal of freedom, freedom that we have taken from people for many months now. I would like to stress once again that the choice to have you vaccinated or not always an individual choice. That is why there is also the alternative to that test. But each individual also has the responsibility to protect the freedom and health of others. I think it is reasonable to ask people to prove otherwise with a self-test that they are allowed to enter somewhere without risk to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u35	I understand that story and I understand it very well, but you also understand that D66 pre-orders what happens, for example, in Spain and Israel. We see countless examples in the rest of Europe. You admit that you want to go the way of corona passports and coronatest certificates, and that you are organizing a two-stream society, making a distinction between people who want to be tested or vaccinated on the one hand and people who are opposed in principle. That doesn't fit in with the idea that I've always found D66 when it comes to equivalence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u36	Very briefly, I do not know exactly how Mr Wilders said it in his speech, but he said that people want their freedom back and that it is our job to find out how we can achieve that freedom as well as possible for everyone. At least the endless extension of a lockdown isn't. That's why I'm in favour of that vaccine and test evidence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u37	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u38	Mr. Chairman. It happens that you get messages from people who say, "Klaver, why do you talk so much about young people? Is it that bad with their mental health?" Unfortunately, we have to note that this is true. Anyone who underestimates what is going on with our young people in society, who is making a big mistake that we will be paying a price for for a very long time. If it turns out that a third of young people are dealing with impaired mental health, then we must not wait. So I am also pleased that primary education has been opened and that children can go back to secondary education. But higher education is still closed. I see that perspective is being offered and that it is being talked about 'the end of the month', but I would urge the cabinet to please open it this week. Make sure we still open higher education. I have read the advice of the RIVM, of the OMT, well. It states that opening up higher education, especially in conjunction with rapid testing, has a very limited effect on the spread of the virus. If we see that opening has a limited effect, but that it has a huge effect on the mental health of young people if we leave it closed, then I urge the cabinet to take this step now. Keeping young people in for so long, taking away part of their lives, is irresponsible. Mr. Chairman. My group has supported the setting of curfews. And we will now, but the cabinet is testing us. When the Justice Minister says "people get used to it," "grow along," I guess you didn't get it. The Prime Minister made a promise here, in the Chamber, and at the press conferences: the curfew is terrible, but it is the first measure we are going to take away. And what does it turn out to be if I look at the list now? Then the curfew is now in the basic rules; not at all the "first measure we are going to remove." That is why I want the Prime Minister's clarity: is the curfew the first measure we will take away from it, or is it a way to control the virus and is he prepared to keep it going until the summer if necessary? I think we should be honest. My group is prepared to do much, but on the basis of the right information. And if they try to introduce something with easy arguments and say "no, we're really gonna get rid of it" and that doesn't turn out to be the truth, then we have a big problem there. And I agree with Mr Jetten's questions on proportionality: if we are going to open up all kinds of other issues in the future, what does that say about proportionality? And I would like to ask the Cabinet: is it prepared to ask the Council of State for advice on this too? One more thing about that curfew. We talk about families here all the time. So do I; I have a family of my own, so you often think about that. But this is also the case in the entire cabinet communication. But in the Netherlands we have 3 million people who are single. And then it is said: well, such a curfew; nice after 9:00 a.m. to play a game with your roommates, or even netflix. For a lot of people that is not possible and means such a curfew that you are at home alone, with no possibility to have contact with anyone. Also there we see the mental consequences pile up. I think that the cabinet should be aware of this, and also see what this means for all those single people in the Netherlands, the 3 million. They may not have one organisation or one mouthpiece that can stand up for them, but they deserve politicians here in the Lower House to stand up for them. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two brief points. The TONK. Others have spoken about this. I've said many times: please, the easiest thing seems to me to take the partner test off it. The solution was: we come with TONK customization through the municipalities. We are getting reports that municipalities are reluctant to apply this. Please indicate today that municipalities can apply it to the way they want it, and that they will also have the means to do so. And finally, I am very pleased with all the ambitions that are at last there with quick tests, with quick tests as a way of opening up society. But quick tests can also cost a lot of money. And if you really want to do that right, you have to do it regularly. That is why I would like the government to play a major role in this. I think that we can ask people for this, as a ticket to get in somewhere, but then it should be accessible to everyone and everyone should also have the opportunity to take those quick tests. That is why I believe that the public authorities should at least contribute to the costs, but, as far as I am concerned, they should provide them free of charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u39	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Who can follow the measures taken by the cabinet? It's getting more and more complicated. Today it is also about curfew, the measure that would indeed be the first to go away from it. But we see that doesn't happen. It is a very far-reaching measure for many people, just as let us not forget that the one visit to the home, the one-visit-at-home measure, which is a very radical measure for people. In the meantime, it is difficult to explain that these measures do not come off, but that we are now in a situation where you can obviously go out and do some outdoor sports with the four of us, but not with the four of us outside a conversation; where your parents or your grandmother and grandmother are not allowed to come home, but you can meet them in the HEMA; where, if you are on the road alone after 9:00, you can get a fine, but you can walk around in a big shop in the daytime with 50 people at the same time. Yes, it is increasingly difficult to explain, and you can also see that the support for the measures is crumbling, which is decreasing. And I get that, because it's getting harder to explain. Then about the vaccination. It has been said that everyone could have their first vaccination on 1 July. That would be fantastic. My question to the cabinet is: is everything really ready? I ask that because we have, of course, asked this more often here in other areas. It was promised, but it turned out not to be so, for example when testing and the source and contact research. Speaking of tests, the quick tests. We read the report that there are 26 million rapid tests on the shelf, but they are not yet being deployed. How's that? Can the cabinet explain that? Can we please be the first to use these things in education, for example, so that we can safely do more things there? Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is becoming more and more a social crisis. We've already seen the mayors' call. They call for a delta plan, because they see that people in the poor neighbourhoods in particular are most affected. That is not surprising either; that is where the people with the insecure contracts, the people who are no longer called up, the people who lose their jobs and those who have to do with a partner test. So once again, call off that unfair partner test. But we also see today's report that the number of people who need the food bank has grown by 7% over the past year. By 7%! Yesterday we were also informed that the Netherlands is in the top four tax havens. I believe we should leave only the Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands and Bermuda for us. After that, the Netherlands comes as a tax haven. That's not consistent, is it? Can we please opt for honesty by ensuring that large companies pay a decent contribution and that they pay taxes on their profits? Can we ensure that no one in the Netherlands needs a food bank anymore? Mr. Chairman. Finally, our concerns. If the corona crisis teaches us anything, it is that a new plan for care is needed. The SP has put forward a proposal for this. We have presented ten points, ten drugs, against a new pandemic. As far as we are concerned, the main thing is that we really need to move from competition to cooperation. We're gonna have to get rid of the freaking power of health insurance companies. But more importantly, our caregivers deserve to regain control of their work. In addition, we want the capacity of our hospitals to be expanded. As long as you can see how many emergency rooms have been closed lately... that hasn't been a good thing. We need to re-invest in additional ic capacity and in re-opening emergency services. At least we don't have to shut down hospitals anymore. And of course we need to invest in the appreciation of our caregivers. I think it is a real scandal that the CDA and the VVD are still blocking a proposal here today to increase healthcare salaries, even though we already need a lot of extra people in healthcare. That is already the case, and in a few years' time it will be. Finally, Mr President. I value to say that there is certainly a SP'er available to carry out these good plans in the upcoming cabinet as Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you. That is clear, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr. Chairman. It is a year ago this week that the Netherlands went into lockdown for the first time. It is also the last Corona debate we have with this Chamber with the Rutte III cabinet. Probably to the relief of the Minister of Health, who in the newspaper stated that he finds it difficult and time-consuming to take parliamentary responsibility. Mr. Chairman. So it is also time to take stock of the situation. The Netherlands, like the whole world, was attacked by the virus. But our country excelled in a failing crisis approach. Being robbed is not an excuse for late purchasing of tests, late supplying protective equipment and late starting vaccination. I thought, of course, where did that come from? My conclusion is: choosing the wrong strategy and sticking stubbornly to it. The cabinet should have chosen the maximum number of infections from day one. We see the consequences of this wrong choice in everything: the dismantling of the crisis structure in the summer, the slow intervention in the increasing number of infections, the endless quack lockdown without any perspective for entrepreneurs, students and the arts and culture sector, and the roadmap that has been followed for less than a minute and which is constantly being adapted on the basis of desirable measures rather than the other way around. In the meantime, care is constantly being over-asked. Ask the nurses, the nurses and the doctors who've been defecting for months. Look at the damage by delaying regular care. And then there must be the reproach: yes, yes, the best drivers are on shore. But let me just say that the best drivers aren't at the helm either. The Labour Party has supported the difficult choices of the cabinet. But we have also shown countless times that other choices could have been made. We asked to learn lessons from the first wave. The cabinet didn't think that was necessary. We insisted on intervening earlier when the infections rose. The cabinet kept stalling. We proposed measures to help the schools. Education was left to its own devices. We asked you to start vaccination faster. But no, the Netherlands would do it all more carefully. And I can go on like this for a while. And where are we now? We hear cabinet members say that the curfew and the ban on visits are all not so bad for people. How do you think of that? Do they ever talk to single people, to lonely people, to students? We see a VWS minister who promises a great deal again and I now ask for a guarantee that by mid-April the most vulnerable people have indeed been vaccinated. I ask him to register the deferred care in all hospitals and to have health insurers actively fulfil their duty of care by avoiding delay of care. We read in the newspaper that the Prime Minister is calling for a national recovery plan as if he were not already responsible. Let us not wait for a recovery plan, but just get to work. I also ask the Prime Minister to respond to the opinion of the Health and Society Council on this matter. And I have some proposals of my own. 1. Do not wait until after the election to take steps for more reward and less workload for the people in care. 2. Invest now where corona struck disproportionately, as in neighborhoods with more vulnerable people. 3. Avoid corona debts. 4. Help higher education and the MBOs offer physical education. All the event halls are still empty. It's getting better. There's a lot to go on there. And finally, five. Don't be a hard learner. Now draw lessons for the future, reform our healthcare system, focus on cooperation rather than competition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u44	Madam President. The situation is fragile, said Jaap van Dissel. At the same time, we see that because of testing and vaccination, the risks are slowly decreasing. That's hopeful. The corona passport. I have concerns and questions about the status of the corona passport. I've said that before. What is the pronunciation power of such a passport? It's not completely waterproof. That's not a vaccination, that's never a test and we don't know exactly what it means if you've already had corona. And yet there will be a result and yet that means something for education, for example, when you have to do an exam. So what is the expressive power of such a passport? I'd like a response. For my group, it is fundamental that a vaccination certificate should not become an exclusive access card for society. Now the cabinet is still talking about a corona passport at major events, but we can already say that one sector after another wants to introduce something like this. Then we can end up on a sliding scale with that vaccination certificate. How do we prevent that? It is also discussed at European level. With regard to these talks, I would ask that we do not take irreversible steps, so that we do not agree to anything agreed at European level until we have also discussed it here as a Chamber. Madam President. Then the curfew. Questions have been asked about proportionality. I agree with that. It would be good if the cabinet made that clear again, because it is a freedom-limiting measure. That curfew was earlier announced as the measure that would go off first. Then it can't be that this is pretty much the last measure to go off. I'd like a response to that. I'm here to talk about higher education. From 29 March, students can attend physical education one day a week. Now there are pilots in eight regions for physical reopening. Does the government agree that there should be maximum scope for tailor-made educational institutions to securely reopen their institutions? For example, if an educational institution can physically offer that one day before 29 March or move faster to more days a week, it should be possible. I am referring, for example, to the Christian University of Ede, which has already been offered enough space to really give students a place. It would be very nice if that space could actually be occupied. Madam President. I read in Het Parool the question: will Easter be the turning point? Now that was already the turning point for Christians 2,000 years ago, but it's a very nice question. I do hope that will be the turning point. Mr. Heerma mentioned terraces. I agree with that. It would be very nice if that space could indeed be offered at that time. But then I have to think about churches too, especially at Easter. It would be very difficult to explain that we can take our place on a terrace, but not in the church, where churches have generally behaved so exemplary. There 30 people or, where churches are very large, more people should be able to attend a service with more tailor-made work. Let Easter indeed be the turning point. Madam President, I would like to conclude by asking a few questions. Out sports on a sports accommodation with four is allowed, but walking with four is not allowed. I believe that Mrs Marijnissen asked the same question: why not? Then there's the entrepreneurs. This question has also been raised by several speakers. We want them to make it to the finish line, even now that we see the light at the end of the tunnel. But we need more support for that. I am thinking of the subsidy rate of the TVL, the Meeting Fixed Charges. Can it be increased to 100% for the second quarter? Wouldn't that be good? A question has also been asked about the TONK budget. Can this also be increased so that customisation can be delivered? I am considering tabling a motion with a number of colleagues on this point. Then there is the final question, Madam President. The first vaccinations are put in African countries via Covax. But in Brazil, more than 250,000 people have died and access to vaccines is minimal. That is a truly dramatic situation. What about the action of the aid organisations to express international solidarity in the Netherlands with a donation per vaccination? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u45	Thank you. Mrs Van Esch has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands will remain in lockdown for at least three weeks longer. Despite the fact that there are points of light, it always keeps coming back hard, especially because people are such social beings. We are not built on that long-term limitation of contacts. That is why it is particularly worrying that the one-visitor rule and that curfew, which is a significant restriction on our fundamental rights, are almost automatically extended. And also the statements made by Minister Grapperhaus that we will get used to it. But those silent victims of that curfew are the least visible. It is for example those single people who work at home during the day behind their computer and who are no longer able to meet with friends in the evening. They are people with mental problems who are getting deeper and deeper into the pit because of the lack of social contact. They're our kids, they're our students. They are all people who may now be humbled by the measures, but who are being pushed further and further over the edge. I wonder how the cabinet has taken their interests into account in extending that curfew over and over again. This is exactly why we have these fundamental rights: to protect people, especially vulnerable people, from the power of the government. We have agreed that these fundamental rights, the right to freedom of movement, the right to privacy, should only be restricted if less radical alternatives are not possible. And even so, it can only be temporary. That curfew and that one-visitor rule are going to take maybe two months or more now. Measures which reduce fundamental rights, such as the closure of shops, will soon be phased out. Can the Prime Minister explain why these specific choices are being made? Mr. Chairman. We have seen this cabinet period that it is possible to intervene hard to overcome an acute health crisis. But when it comes to a crisis that seems to be a little bit further away, short-term thinking still wins. Look at the O.V. The government is dropping public transport at the moment, and we need this sector very badly to cope with the climate crisis. The Minister of Finance, who initially pulled the wallet very quickly to support KLM, was now very quick to tell the NS that they only have to run with fewer trains to get it financially. So next year, with the warm support of this cabinet, a return Ibiza can be booked, but with the rush on the train it will only become more crowded. In any case, this is contrary to the motion adopted by the Animal Party to ensure that public transport must pass through the crisis unharmed. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet must adjust its priorities and implement our motion. Mr. Chairman. We're sitting one week before the election, an excellent moment for reflection. We have seen a zoonosis disrupt society, but still no effort is being made to prevent the emergence of zoonoses. This cabinet accepts the number of animals in livestock farming as a given, while virologists have been warning about the risks for years. The Ministers of Agriculture and Foreign Trade continue to export cheerful veal slices to China and extract deforestation feed from Brazil. And VWS gets to clean up the mess and take the political responsibility if it goes wrong! In this way, we will continue to stumble from crisis to crisis, and young people will ultimately have to bear the burden in the future. Mr. Chairman. The danger of animal diseases jumping over humans cannot have escaped anyone's attention in the past year. But facing the consequences, as far as we are concerned, it is really time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u48	Madam President. Mrs Van Esch said it was an excellent day for reflection today. I would like to support that for another reason: today is also the day of prayer for crops and labour. That is a day when many Christians pray for the blessing of God for their work. It gives us peace to lay our toil and works in the hands of God in trust. I would also like to say to the rulers and colleagues: know that many, even today, are praying for wisdom for all those responsible for combating the corona virus. Mr. Chairman. I have said it before in the Corona debates and raised it as a question: are you sure that we will be there with short-term measures? Couldn't it be that we have to live longer with the virus? In fact, you can see that getting stronger, even with those mutants, who of course have surprised us and also start to surprise us again. Thank you for the scenarios in the letter, but my more fundamental question is: what does this change of perspective really mean for the measures we are taking and for the approach we are taking? It may be that we have much longer to deal with than we thought before. It is precisely when measures last longer that the question of proportionality is put in a different light. How does the cabinet weigh this? When will this more fundamental reflection be on the table? Mr. Chairman. The corona passport. According to the Cabinet, test certificates and vaccination certificates together play an important role in the desire to re-open society responsibly. Well, of course we all share that wish. We all want this reopening of society and, of course, it must be justified, but what exactly does this mean? What are the implications of such a corona passport? In our opinion, we go on a slippery path. It is a temporary measure, according to the Cabinet, but how temporary is temporary? The curfew was temporary and lay at the top of the pile of measures to be abolished, but now when I look at the ease with which the extension is defended, it offers little confidence. How is it now ensured that something can only be used temporarily? And can't a corona passport like that lead a life of its own? I understand that the cabinet sees access tests and self-tests as a solution if the virus stays among us for longer. But I wonder if we want to live in a world where free access to society is linked to the condition that you have to demonstrate with an app that you have been tested negative or vaccinated. When exactly is such a thing proportional? How does it relate to the Council of Europe's parliamentary agreements and resolutions that there should be absolutely no need for vaccination or coercion? By the way, I have noticed that it does not help to have a good exchange of views on this sensitive subject if it is published in the newspaper, and I do not know how the Minister has said it exactly, that the Minister has no understanding for people who, for whatever reason, decide not to be vaccinated. I just want to say that. I also miss the cabinet's view on the long-term consequences of using such a corona passport. Every technological innovation is basically a one-way street. What does such a passport do with our society, with how we deal with disease and risks? The policy so far has focused on the responsibility of the population. Do we not shift man's responsibility to technology? Mr. Chairman. These are all fundamental questions that I would like to raise, so that we do not say too easily on an afternoon-to-afternoon: a good idea to get freedom in that way. Let the weighing take place carefully. Finally. The cabinet comes with a number of targeted adjustments to the measures in force. It is good that larger stores get more space to receive customers. I do have another suggestion. I note that there is no room for relaxation, but there is room for adjustment of measures. Is there also no adjustment possible for non-food market stalls, knowing that the risk of contamination in the outdoors is lower? My final point. I would like to support Mr Klaver on the issue of higher education institutions. Can it not be faster to organise physical meetings for freshmen, for example, in small groups at a large distance? Society's own responsibility and customisation are and remain the guiding concepts for the SGP in the fight against the coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte takes away their freedom from the Dutch. He locks people in their homes after 9:00. Entrepreneurs are being thrown into misery. He causes loneliness and depression among young people. He keeps the Netherlands in a hold. The Dutch do not understand why the gyms are kept closed, while there are hardly any infections. People don't understand that Rutte keeps the catering business closed, while the hospitality industry has hardly caused the virus to spread. The Dutch are Rutte's curfew, which does not work and goes far too far, completely drunk. People want their freedom back, which Rutte stole. People want the Netherlands to open responsibly. People are sick of this panic premier's bullying policy. But this Prime Minister will continue with his disastrous policy. He extends the unnecessary and malicious curfew until March 30th. From this Prime Minister, people must remain in their homes until 30 March, when he promised that the curfew would be the first to go out. Rutte is really the only Dutchman who manages to break more promises than he makes promises, and who in the meantime claims very dry that other political parties should not make promises. For the rest, the Dutch only get crumbs from this prime minister: swimming lessons for children, a little more people in the shops and vague promises about terraces. As far as DENK is concerned, the terraces can just open now and we don't have to wait until March 30th. I can only come to one conclusion: Prime Minister Rutte does not want to give the Dutch their freedom back. Mr. Chairman. As far as DENK is concerned, the curfew is simply abolished. As far as DENK is concerned, the gyms open. As far as DENK is concerned, the shops and the catering industry are opened in a responsible manner. Because our freedom is at stake. Rutte and his curfew coalition of D66, GroenLinks, SP, PvdA, CDA and VVD are now also heading for corona passports, test certificates and vaccination passports. This undermines the privacy and right of self-determination of Dutch people and puts the Netherlands in a corona stranglehold. All the data collected about people is due to Rutte's failure policy on the street. They are shadyly shared and even sold to others. As far as DENK is concerned, people's data should no longer be shared. As far as DENK is concerned, there will be no corona passports. As far as DENK is concerned, testing and vaccination is always voluntary and people should not be forced to do so directly or indirectly. Whether someone is being tested, vaccinated or wants to share their data, people need to be able to decide for themselves. Rutte can't decide that from his turret for the people. DENK is really tired of the banging policy with disproportionate measures by Rutte. DENK is tired of the speculation with doom stories about the British variant as well. There are already 12,000 variants of the coronavirus. If we were hysterical about every variant, we'd be really far from home. The Netherlands should no longer be scared with stories and ghost models of RIVM. The Netherlands deserves to get that freedom back. Mr. Chairman. All in all, curfew has to go now. The restaurants, shops and gyms can be opened in a responsible way. If Rutte does not want to open the Netherlands itself, the voters in the Netherlands must decide whether they want to open the Netherlands. You can do that in exactly a week. I would like to call on anyone who wants the Netherlands to be free again and anyone who is tired of Rutte's bullying measures and wants to stop doing so: go to the ballot box, think differently, vote DENK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems that we are moving in the right direction, especially now that vaccination is coming on steam, but the situation is still precarious now that the infections are still not falling significantly. Everyone craves the opening of society. The idea of an infection app is quite a good direction. We can't keep this place locked until everyone's been vaccinated. It is good that it is not only a vaccination passport, but also a non-contamination certificate. There are still a few questions left. What do we do for people who don't have a phone that the app works on? What do we do for people with intellectual disabilities who don't have a phone? How's the privacy? And how fraud-prone is this app? The EU is already making a corona passport. There is little support for this. How will the app stand in relation to that European passport? It also means that we need to speed up rapid and self-test. What is the status of validation and its availability? Is it true about the 26 million? Mr. Chairman. Many nursing homes have already been vaccinated. That is good, but we also see that many nursing homes are too anxious to carry out the possible relaxations. For example, there is a nursing home in Bilthoven where everyone has been vaccinated, but the residents are still not allowed to eat together. Or think of the lady who went for a walk in the woods with her vaccinated mother. That was against the rules and so the woman still had to quarantine. Perhaps the Minister, for example in cooperation with ActiZ, could better assist the nursing homes in introducing the facilitations. Corona has long-lasting consequences for some people, for example because of lung damage. The temporary arrangement from the corona repair fund offers some short-term relief, but there are restrictions that are unnecessary according to 50PLUS. You have to report in four months. If you think to yourself "I'm gonna check it out," you're gonna be here before you know it. In principle, you're only eligible for six months' compensation. That can be postponed by another six months, but what happens after that? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Despite strong public support, we are seeing a worrying development in the economy. Listed companies are going to cut 30,000 jobs and invest significantly less. 140,000, especially small self-employed workers, have now ended their business in order to escape bankruptcy. The water really is more than above the lips. We'll make an appeal to the cabinet. Don't build the support, but hang in there. Do not put the economy behind us now that the end of the crisis is coming. Provide perspective for entrepreneurs, small and large. Create a strong coherent recovery plan, including generous debt restructuring, so that economic recovery is not smothered in debt. Make a clear roadmap, like the UK and Germany, to get out of the crisis and ensure an investment-driven recovery after corona. We hope to be able to discuss quickly an updated aid and recovery package and are curious when it will come to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Finally. 50PLUS is also absolutely in favour of deleting the.I wanted to say'mantle care penalty'. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u53	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u54	Mr. Chairman. Fear is a very bad counselor. The use of fear as a weapon by the government is cruel, reprehensible and harmful. But that is exactly what the cabinet has done over the past year. With a nonsensical one-and-a-half meter rule, a manipulative PCR test and catastrophic lockdowns, a large number of people have been terrified. Even when it became clear that corona was not as dangerous as thought, the cabinet continued to restrict our freedoms. We were no longer allowed to go to school, no more sports, no more shopping, no more festivals, no more catering and no more visiting each other. While the cabinet did not bother to scale up the number of ic-beds, we were subjected to an insulting behavior experiment, forcing us to wear sickening mouth caps. Caught in fear. But the apotheosis was an intimidating curfew to defeat the dubious models of the RIVM that predicted that the British variant would make all dads and moms, grandpas and grandmas sick. Mr. Chairman. We are looking back at a criminal year, in which the cabinet has made decisions based on fear, which has destroyed our entire society. This cabinet has talked to the Dutch people about an anxiety psychosis and has to stop this fearmongering. Let's get rid of this cabinet, let's get the Netherlands out of here and deal with this horrible coronatrauma. Mr. Chairman. The lack of openness in this cabinet is masked by blaming the Forum for Democracy for spreading fake news. But we don't spread fake news, we ask questions. The fact that these questions do not fit in the Minister's style is another story, but a minister simply has to answer. So again my question from the previous debate: what exactly is the situation with the side effects after vaccination? And this would like to be specified by vaccine. How does this relate to the flu shot, for example? In this context, I am pleased that our motion, tabled together with Mr Kuzu, on the disclosure of all RIVM models, has been adopted. Can the Minister explain why we have not yet received these models? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet apparently has the idea that the blind faith in their failed monomanic vaccination obsession is enough to make people in the country believe that we are on the right track, that the enormous sacrifices are justified and that the requested solidarity is proportionate. That's easy to say, when you're assured of a stable income and the measures barely touch you. But shopkeepers, catering entrepreneurs and others who do earn their own money see their life's work evaporate and young people no longer last. The asymmetry in the corona measures is too great and this cabinet has completely lost its grip on reality. Where we thought it couldn't get any worse after the lockdown and curfew, there's the vaccination passport now. This outgoing cabinet, using the vaccination passport, is sly enough to ensure an indirect vaccination obligation. Can we travel alone, shop, go to the movies or work out with a vaccination pass in our pockets? Isn't this a very grim form of social exclusion? And what about the infection? Because you can still be contagious if you take your certificate to the movies or a festival. Mr. Chairman. The Milgram experiment shows that people are willing to commit atrocious acts if a leader prompts them to do so. This experiment is re-relevant. Many people do what the great leaders De Jonge and Rutte say, while common sense is at odds with this. Take the curfew. This would be the first measure to go off the table, but in the meantime we are still stuck with this monstrosity. And then there's the catering business. There would be a short lockdown, but the catering industry has been closed for almost six months now. Six months, Mr President, how can we accept this? Mr. Chairman. Obedience has led us to lose our freedom and only disobedience is going to restore our freedom. We have arrived at a democratic tilting point. There's too many bodies in the closet. There are too many broken promises, too many stinking files and too many families that have been destroyed. Our freedom has been taken away. On 17 March the Netherlands has the choice. Do we choose lockdowns, curfews and vaccination passports, or do we opt for Forum for Democracy and get our freedom back? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u55	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet loses sight of proportionality. The measures are bad for our economy, our way of life and even our health. The lockdown and curfew are far-reaching violations of our fundamental right of freedom. On Monday, the temporary law for a vaccination passport went into consultation. There is a great deal to be done to reduce our fundamental rights and also to divide society into two. We saw pictures of our prime minister at the barber shop, with a man or six in a small room. Why does the same Prime Minister prohibit a merchant from selling his shoes in the open air, for example? I put forward a motion on that earlier. I'll try again today. There must be a view of opening up in the short term. The same applies to the catering and shops. Let entrepreneurs conduct a sensible door policy. They can. Then I come to Build Back Better, by both the Prime Minister and Minister Kaag linked to corona. I asked for an extended letter and got a edge. We know what the UN means by that. The statements of the Secretary-General António Guterres leave nothing to the imagination. He felt that Latin America should be radically transformed in order to overcome the corona crisis. But are the UN talking about transforming Latin America? In her letter of summer 2020, Minister Kaag states that the Netherlands supports Build Back Better. It is strange that she said this without Parliament being properly informed, without having had a debate on it, without knowing what its content and consequences are and without Parliament having agreed to it. I made a request yesterday to be allowed to debate this, but this request for a debate was not given any support. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u57	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Curfew. I strongly support all the corona measures we use to contain the virus. But what this cabinet is doing is inimitable again: according to the cabinet people are growing along with the curfew and earlier the freedom-limiting measure was still on top of the pile to delete. How effective is it really now? We cannot trust this cabinet in its word, not during this crisis and certainly not just before the elections. Mr. Chairman. The health bonus. My initiative, now one week after one year ago. Now there is a new measure for care workers who work from a pgb budget, finally, we have had to wait a long time for it, but once again caregivers are at risk of falling out. Has the cabinet learned from all the communication errors and the no-tenth lists, from this misery? What about carers, the family parents who take care of their chronically ill child from a pgb? Why are they excluded? I mean, that's totally unfair, isn't it? I'd like a clarification. Mr. Chairman. Ex-corona patients who are still suffering from severe complaints months later will not be reimbursed for their recovery care if they have not reported this within four months. The cabinet does not want to extend this deadline, while sometimes months go by before people come to the conclusion that they are stuck. Why does the Cabinet leave these people in the cold? Finally, vaccination of severely chronically ill people. On 11 February, the Minister promised to give priority to vaccination to seven groups with a high health risk. To date, for five of these groups, it is unclear when and by whom they will be vaccinated with priority. The general practitioners have indicated that they cannot properly map the groups and that medical specialists should do so. The RIVM indicated that vaccination of these groups requires customisation. Why isn't anything going well? Even vulnerable groups are not optimally protected by this cabinet. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u59	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. Suspend for half an hour? Then I'll suspend the meeting for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u60	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u61	Mr. Chairman. The idea would be for me to address the questions about the restrictions currently in force and how we will proceed with them in the coming weeks and whatever we hope is possible. Then I would like to answer a few questions relating to the aid packages. Finally, there is a question of how to proceed: a recovery plan and so on. Then comes the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, who likes to talk to you about mainly testing, vaccines and travel. I'm not really sure if any questions have been asked about travel, but in everyone about testing and vaccines. No, don't travel, huh? Finally, the Minister for Medical Care comes across the care capacity and a single sports question. So that would be the division. I'm not going to repeat Monday's press conference. I don't think that's wise. You've been able to track all that. More importantly, it has also been reflected in the official letter of Parliament. In itself, most Members of Parliament have been well appointed that, unfortunately, additional risks cannot be taken at the moment. We decided, of course, on the previous announcement, to take a few limited risks. Now we cannot continue on that path. We hope that when a number of things develop quietly, and so I look at the R-number and the situation in the hospitals, perhaps towards the end of the month, at 31 March, towards Easter, a few things are possible. In this context, I have heard a number of suggestions, for example the suggestion from the CDA about terraces. How can you use it to regulate the outer space? That's what we're gonna get involved in. It also makes sense, I think, also the idea of whether that could be done by appointment et cetera. Unfortunately, this cannot be done before 31 March, as unfortunately no extension can now be done before 31 March, because the figures have really not developed well enough. We really want to see some effects. I would, however, like to say that we will of course include the suggestion made by Mr Heerma regarding the terraces and also how to use them in the spread of people and the pressure on towns and villages. The same applies to Mr Segers' suggestion about the churches. Right now, I'm telling you, they're not on the list, but I get it. Moreover, there is always intensive contact between Grapperhaus, the minister for services, and the Central Inter-Church Dialogue, even since the previous debate. Whether that space is there, and perhaps especially during Easter, is really not to be said at the moment, but we will also include that suggestion. Then suggestions were made in the first term of the Chamber by Mr Klaver among others. That was about higher education. This also applies to the fact that it is not possible to do more at the moment. There's really no space for that right now. This is also evident from the OMT opinion. We just really shouldn't. I understand what Mr Klaver is saying about it. The cabinet would also prefer to consider whether it would be possible to make things possible in the next round, in addition to the catering sector, in addition to retail. Suggestions have also been made on curfew, in particular to weigh proportionality. I get that question. We will, of course, involve them in the next step. Those were all good remarks from the Chamber, which we will all be involved in the next moment of reflection, but nothing that scares me terribly now. So that in response to that part of the questions. There are also questions about the economic aid package, which I might be able to deal with separately and, again, the question of the Labour Party: what after the crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u62	That's good. We are going first to a few MPs: Mr Klaver, Mr Segers, Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Wilders. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u63	Every day that higher education is closed for longer, we do mental damage to young people. When I read the OMT advice, opening higher education combined with rapid testing has a very limited effect. Then I do not understand the Prime Minister's argument that he is now saying: we are not opening higher education. You're gonna have to take that step now. It's not without risks, I get that, but not letting young people go to school anymore has a lot more risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u64	After all, the OMT strongly recommends that no major policy changes should be introduced now which could lead to more contacts. That is why we have really decided on a pass on the spot. We do want to offer that perspective, based on the idea that you also have to take well-balanced risks. That would be something for us to announce at the next moment on Tuesday 23 March, so by 31 March. This is true of higher education, which is said to be accompanied, of course, by a corresponding pilot-based test policy. That's what we're looking at. We'll do that integrally on March 23rd. Of course, the OMT says that it is really too early to be able to measure the relaxations that were done in March. Then you also talk about what we are doing now in secondary education and the MBO, together with the general alarming epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u65	It's not like the Cabinet isn't doing anything right now. We're gonna have more people in stores. Those are all contact moments, too. I really think we should ultimately choose in scarcity. If I have to choose whether more people can go into a store or if young people can go back to college, then the priority is quite clear that we are giving young people that opportunity. The OMT says very clearly that the risk is limited, especially if we combine it with quick tests. We've got 30 million on the shelf by now. This isn't a suggestion I'm making. It is a compelling profession: open up higher education this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u66	Yes, and I would also love to open the terraces this week and open the shops completely. I just can't. The OMT says: it is really unwise to make major policy changes now. It also says that if that space is there, then indeed higher education... that is also a wish of the Chamber. That is what the motion that was adopted last time was about, from GroenLinks and D66, I think, in parallel with the motion on the terraces of CDA and VVD, I think. In our letter we also added the broader middle class in the Netherlands. So these are three areas that we would like to look at in particular. But right now, that space isn't there. Then Mr. Klaver says: but you're doing a few things now. In our view, these are not steps leading to the taking of extra epidemiological space. They are refinements, details, with regard to the shops, for example. In addition, the very coarse solution of two per floor did a bit of calderic in shops where there are large floor areas. That is why we say, without suggesting that we should eat extra epidemiological space: let us be a little less precise there and settle that precisely on the basis of the number of square meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u67	I have the OMT's advice here. That does say that there is also a limited effect of opening shops, even if it is by appointment and under all the conditions there are now. Is it true that the OMT says that this has a limited effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u68	Everything you do always has a limited effect. But we believe that this clarification in the shops does not lead to the eating up of an idiotic amount of epidemiological space. It is not that you could have opened higher education if you had not said: in the shops we go to 50 max and 1 per 25 m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u69	It's about priorities. If the OMT says that allowing more people into shops has limited risks, then the cabinet dares to take that risk. But when the OMT says that opening up higher education has limited risks, the cabinet says: we don't do that. To be perfectly honest, I'm not going to be able to finish with that. We all talk to young people and we all get reports from young people, including you, who have been in lockdown for a year and cannot go to the lecture halls. They're getting great education, you know. I know teachers do their utmost to transfer knowledge, but studying is so much more than that. That is meeting peers, although it is at 1.5 meters and with a mouth cap and all the restrictions that come with it. Young people need to be able to see each other. Education must be open as soon as possible. The Prime Minister has not convinced me that that is not possible. That is why we shall be tabling a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u70	I'd love to give higher education more space now, too. I also agree on the effects on young people because it is closed. We totally agree on that. We do not agree that you can compare the very limited epidemiological effects of the clarification in the shops with the opening up of higher education. That's really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u71	I have one follow-up question about higher education and then a question about the churches. Higher education first. I understand Mr Klaver's heart cry, but perhaps there is an intermediate step to be taken. There's room for young people to meet in places. This has also been given money to municipalities, because meeting each other is crucial at this stage. Could colleges also be part of this and could they offer room for students to meet in social terms, because it is so hard for them now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u72	Then you mean you're using the place of college for that piece of youth policy. I should check that out, but that doesn't mean that the colleges are going to teach them physically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u73	I would love it if physical teaching of students would be possible, but as a phase for that, you might ask colleges to have their students meet there or in other places. Then they do meet at this time and are part of what the cabinet itself has initiated, namely to allow young people to meet each other regulated and responsible in places. It could include colleges of applied sciences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u74	I'd like to check it again, but I'm telling you honestly, I'm not too hopeful. Then it's not about teaching, unfortunately. I would like to do that too, but it is still not possible because of too high a rate of infection, too high a number of infections in the Netherlands and the enormous pressure that still exists in hospitals. Quite specifically, the question was whether the programme we have to give young people a little more air could also partly run in colleges. So that's not about teaching, it's about using the buildings. I'm gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u75	That seems to me to be a small step, but one that could be very meaningful. Then the second question, about the churches. The Prime Minister says, "I want Minister Grapperhaus to talk." I always think it's good to start talking. It is, of course, strictly not the government that determines exactly what is and is not allowed. You can see that churches have succeeded and that they have been completely scaled down, or maybe in some cases come together with 30 people. My appeal would indeed be to use this consultation to see what kind of customisation is possible, especially if the terraces are looked at as strongly as possible. It would be very difficult to explain if terraces were allowed to open and churches next to them, in a very responsible way, should not receive multiple people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u76	I understand that, although terraces are naturally outdoors and churches are not. But in itself the idea is indeed that this type of conversation is taking place, as Mr Segers describes here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u77	Mrs. Marijnissen and then Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u78	We still have a package of very radical measures, especially if you are talking about one visitor at home and of course the curfew. It was the Prime Minister who made the promise that it was just that measure that would be the first to go off when there would be any room for action. Now we have heard the Minister of Justice, Mr Grapperhaus, say: people are actually growing with that curfew. I therefore assume that the cabinet speaks with one voice that is the position of the cabinet. I wonder, therefore, what exactly does the cabinet mean by 'that people grow along with it'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u79	It is made very large, but in my opinion he meant nothing but that you see that the support for that curfew is not hopeless, although it is now decreasing somewhat. I think that's it. He has in no way wanted to say that it is not a major measure. That's what we all think, and so is Grapperhaus. There's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u80	There is, of course, that doubt throughout the Netherlands, because it was the Prime Minister who promised that this would be the first measure to come off. So of course there is that doubt. It was already there, and then a Minister of Justice comes along with such a ruling. On top of that, it is said that there are no relaxations but adjustments, but that is, of course, nonsense. Because if we are allowed to walk around in a store with 50 people in a moment, that is certainly a relaxation compared to what could and could not have been done earlier. That is the wretched thing: that there seems to be room for economic measures and relaxation, but at the same time such violent measures as curfew, but certainly one visitor at home are still in the package. Surely the Prime Minister can't explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u81	At the moment, there is simply no room for the whole package that is there, both the advice of the 1.5 meters which is partly enforceable, the hand washing, the sneezing in the elbow and the use of paper handkerchiefs, as well as the measures to be maintained such as curfew, to take something off. That is really on the basis of the OMT opinion. That is also because of the state of the epidemic and the epidemiological figures, where, of course, you still have to see how such a measure, if you have it, is part of the whole package. Right now, there's simply no room to take anything off. That's the fact. We still want to get rid of it like everyone else here, I think, but at the moment that space is not there to do that. So that measure is still first on top of the pile, but that space was not and is not there at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u82	The space is obviously there to walk around in a shop again with 50 people. But if you walk down the street in your uppie after 9:00 p.m., you'll get a fine. I really think that the basis for government policy is getting worse, precisely because of this kind of thing. Promises are not being honoured, so this does not appear to be the first measure to go off. But the contradiction of measures is becoming so great that it is almost impossible to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u83	I don't see it that way. That with the shops is not a step that suddenly demands a lot of extra space. Now you have two per floor and that remains two per floor, but for very large shops there is a maximum of 50. In a large IKEA, assuming one person per square meter, you could really lose hundreds of people. Of course you're not gonna do that; hence up to 50. But it's kind of silly to have two people per floor in a big IKEA. Based on the number of square meters, this doesn't eat too much of the epidemiological space. This is not proportionate to the effect of the curfew in combination with the one-visitor scheme at home of 10%. That's really significant. So although we still want to get rid of this measure, the fact remains that, even in the last OMT opinion, it is still said that, given the state of the epidemic, that is not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u84	The Prime Minister and his cabinet have chosen a strategy to steer the capacity of care. Does the Prime Minister now recognise, looking back a year later, that if a strategy had been chosen to minimise the number of infections, we would have had fewer sick people and fewer regular care had been postponed or adjusted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u85	I have also often had this discussion with the previous chairman of the Labour Party. I've been trying to figure out what we disagreed on. I think we're in agreement. We agree that you're sending the question if the care can handle it. I do not mean so much the "relaxing" of the care, but a term that we have used before, because we do not need to relieve the care at all. There are highly educated people working there, but they also want to take care of people who come in with cancer or heart problems or other serious issues. You don't want them to get into the tribulation. In addition, you look at people with vulnerable health and the elderly in the Netherlands. Everything is aimed at finally being able to make the source and contact research take place in such a way that you can also stomp out new fireplaces like that. So I have always looked for what Asscher and I disagreed on; Mrs Ploumen now repeats that point. I've always felt that we actually agreed that you're trying to do the best you can to knock out new fireplaces. That's wise, too. This is, by the way, a strategy that follows all of Europe and, in fact, the whole of the western world. We don't do anything crazy in the Netherlands. We do the same as the Germans, the Belgians, the French, the Italians and, in fact, everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u86	I always felt that if this strategy had been followed with maximum restraint, we would not have had to call the Chamber back in August to hold the government accountable for the increasing number of infections and the lack of measures, the scaling down of the crisis structure and missing source and contact research. We would have been in a very different situation after the summer. So I would ask the Prime Minister to reflect on that, because if that strategy had been followed, we would not have had to close the schools in October, the children would have had it really much easier and could have gone through a lot. So it's not a theoretical discussion. People have suffered underneath. Kids have suffered underneath. Looking back, I would like to ask the Prime Minister once again: it really should have been quite different in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u87	I'm still trying to find out what we don't agree on. What Mrs Ploumen is referring to here is another point, which we have also talked about before, namely the extent to which you take firm enough measures if things do not go well again. That is the debate on whether we have taken sufficiently firm measures in September, still at the regionalisation stage of the approach. That really doesn't matter what strategy you follow. Once again, we are following the strategy that every Western country is pursuing, namely trying to always be able to stamp out new fireplaces. If the number of infections is too high, we can't. So you have to intervene to ensure that it returns to an acceptable level so that those BCOs can take place. That has always been the strategy we followed. In doing so, we use these two book supports or guardrails: on the one hand, care, and on the other hand, how to prevent people with weak health or elderly from being significantly affected by this virus. Again, so do the Germans, the French and, in fact, everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u88	However, if that strategy had been followed, it would have ensured that the source and contact research had been in order, that it had quickly been put in order and that it had remained in order in the summer. This would have ensured that the test capacity had been expanded rapidly. None of that happened. So it's more than just a feeling. The facts are that this has made people more sick. The facts are that the cabinet has simply not regulated it properly enough and has not protected us well enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u89	That's really not true! I'm the first to admit a mistake. One of the mistakes we have admitted is the extent to which, when we were in that regional approach, we had solid enough packages and the question whether that was enough to really push things back. In addition, there is, of course, the major issue of building up the test capacity and the capacity for source and contact research. That is not exceptional; we also see this in all countries around us. Meanwhile, the number of source and contact studies that can be carried out by the GGD has also been greatly scaled up compared to the numbers we could handle in March, April and May. That was also the work we did this summer. You can always discuss whether that was fast enough. I can only say that everyone has worked the snot in front of their eyes to do so as soon as possible. But that does not alter the more fundamental strategic question put by Mrs Ploumen. I thought we agreed on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u90	My question to the Prime Minister concerns the following. I notice that he is now saying: it would actually be silly not to allow those shops to allow some more people. I fully agree with that. I only realized I looked at the stenogram, which the Prime Minister said two weeks ago, when I put forward the same thing, with a lot of conviction: no, it really can't; there's no room for that. Is it not a pity that good ideas are realized with a delay of two weeks, is my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u91	That is, of course, the suffering of Mr Van der Staaij, who often has good ideas and always takes two weeks for them to descend completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u92	That was the front seat. Now to the point that Mr Klaver and Mr Segers also made: is there not such a thing for higher education? High schools tell you from all sides that they really see opportunities to get things done with limited groups and with great distances, for example for freshmen or others, and that this actually doesn't pose much extra risk. The cabinet also says that we are not only having a health crisis, but also a social psychological crisis. That's a big deal. Wouldn't you be able to accommodate that against that background, if that were to be the case in the Chamber? There is such a delay in the implementation of such ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u93	I don't know if this idea has come down in two weeks. I'll explain why I think that. I need to be very precise about that. Look, the problem isn't whether higher education can organize itself properly. This is not the problem in the catering industry, in the retail trade or in the travel industry or at events. All these different sectors are able to function in a fantastic way coronaproof. The problem is the sum total. A few weeks ago, from the postulate that we are willing to take some limited risks at the stage in which we are now, we said where we are going to do that. We do this very limited in a few places, namely in the sport up to 27 years and in the retail trade. In addition, we are opening secondary education, also on urgent advice from the OMT and the pediatricians in the Netherlands, who said it really had to be done. That's when sectors get back on their feet a little bit, but you're taking a risk with that. Within these risks, we have said, in fact, following what Van der Staaij said two weeks ago, that these two per floor are too tightly adjusted. If you make that one person per 25 m2, it does not in itself lead to more epidemiological space than the fact that those stores can receive physically again in any case already took two weeks ago. If you add to that new sectors, for example the wider retail sector, higher education or the terraces, the catering industry also has it well organized for the terraces in itself, then the problem is in the sum of all those movements. As I said on Monday, not that one terrace or one college is the problem. The problem is the sum total.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u94	I realize that there is limited space, as the Prime Minister always explains. But at the same time, if you look at how big the need is and have an ingrowth model that doesn't make you equal to anything and everything, which allows you to grow it in control, then you might be able to do more justice to the need that exists without leading to an irresponsible situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u95	But I must point out to Mr Van der Staaij that the Netherlands is doing much worse in terms of number of infections and hospital occupation than Germany, Belgium and France. We're really doing a lot worse. Despite this fact, we are prepared, apart from the opening of secondary education on urgent advice, which is already exciting, to take a number of risks within the thought that you can take responsible risks. So we've taken a few risks, but now we can't continue to take even more risks. I find it irresponsible to make more room in higher education now. I would very much like to do that, too. That is not what the discussion is about, because everyone wants to do it, and we all see the impact on young people of the fact that these colleges and universities are closed now, but then you take too much risk in a situation where the Netherlands is doing worse than the surrounding countries in terms of numbers of infections and in which we are already taking a few risks that we do not know exactly what is happening. I say this in the context of calculations by the OMT, which says: boys, depending on the scenarios, it may go a little further or even increase significantly in hospitals. I do not think it is justified to say now: let us also open higher education. We do say that if it settles somewhat and the number of hospitalisations is a bit on a plateau at some point, even though it will rise slightly, with an R around 1, higher education will come into the picture immediately. Then maybe in a few weeks there'll be something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u96	Please continue. Oh, no, there is another question from Mr Wilders, Mrs Sazias and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u97	The Prime Minister is holding people prisoner in the Netherlands. He has a ridiculous lockdown, which he extends for no good reason. Restaurants have to close and go bankrupt, and more of that kind of crazy. He motivates this, among other things, by saying that it is all possible and that we need to vaccinate people quickly. Now my group has received a motion here, and you can remember that, especially to vaccinate vulnerable people immediately. We are right to talk about young people and how they are all having such a hard time here, but what about the elderly in the Netherlands? During the debate, I received an e-mail from a gentleman whose name I will not mention, who says that his wife has become paralyzed, is in a wheelchair and needs chronic ventilation because her lung function is poor. She's unlikely to survive a corona contamination. She's gonna be 70 soon, she's not gonna have a visitor, and she's on life support, so she can't go out anymore. She's been in contact with the UMC to ask when she can finally be vaccinated. She's not getting an answer. And the Minister speaks during the debate and in the press conference about 'vulnerable first', but in practice none of that happens. And I also want to defend it for these people, for these elderly people, and thereby for the freedom of the whole of the Netherlands. These are people who are on the ventilator again, have lung problems, 69, 70 are and have not yet had a start of an invitation to be vaccinated, whereas that is one of the methods and the solution for you, in your reasoning, to give the Netherlands, and these people certainly, a piece of freedom back. Why are you in spite of the Wilders motion adopted, which says 'begin to add these vulnerable people immediately to the groups', which I believe was adopted in December... Why hasn't this lady gotten her invitation yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u98	With regard to the specific e-mail, I would like to ask you to share it with us; then we will continue to find out. But I am also going to give the general answer, because in his first term Mr Wilders also mentioned the issue of people 64 years of age with a medical condition. Maybe this is also the e-mail he mentions, but again: very much like a copy of that specific e-mail. The group 60-64-year-olds has been invited and vaccinated since mid-February. The group 63- and 64-year-olds were launched at regional level. The provinces of Zeeland, North Brabant and Limburg have started and this week will start with Gelderland, but we are of course dependent on the deliveries. The general practitioners also vaccinate some high medical risk groups, such as people with Down syndrome and with a BMI above 40. Other high-risk groups are vaccinated by the medical specialists from week 12. And when it comes to people with a neurological condition that affects their breathing, it's done by the general practitioner. And all the other people with a medical indication will be shown afterwards. So that's what we're doing. Of course, it's also about large numbers. Unfortunately, the number of vaccines is limited. Everything we've got, we're gonna try and poke it away as fast as we can. But in itself we are currently working, as far as possible within the number of vaccines available, on the vaccination of people with vulnerable health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u99	There's more of these. I'd be happy to give this letter to the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u100	I'd love to. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u101	... because if we can help this lady with that, please. But this is an example of someone who falls into that category between 60 and 70, who I think is very vulnerable and who has not yet had an invitation. And she's not the only one. I know, because that is what the Minister for Health has said, that it is going to start with a certain group. But can I ask when? This is also extremely relevant for regaining freedom for that group. If it is vaccinated voluntarily, this naturally results in a total reduction in the pressure on intensive care. It's nice that you already see with those 80-plussers that voluntary vaccination has an effect, but those people didn't usually end up in intensive care, and this group did. Then may I ask you when this group is finished with the vaccination? Do you have a moment you're saying, and I understand that depends on availability...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u102	Yeah, that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u103	Yeah, well, let's say... We received the Minister's delivery schedule, which is in your letter yesterday. If you take that as a starting point, when will that group be ready to vaccinate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u104	That's what Hugo de Jonge is about to discuss, because we've divided it so that he would do the vaccines and all the questions about the tests. But I really want to answer the main question put by Mr Wilders. And that's that group with a medical condition, and in this case the group 60-64 years old, is now in the picture. But it is a large number, and with the number of vaccines available, that is not something that has been completed in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u105	Then I'll leave that now, but then I'd like a second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u106	No, I think Hugo de Jonge is about to go for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u107	And then I would like to ask the Minister not to make those names of this e-mail public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u108	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u109	If you do it through the messenger, you'll be fine. Please continue. No? I still have Mrs. Sazias. No? Mr. Van Haga? And I see Mr. Clover? Yes. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u110	Yes, thank you. Well, the Prime Minister is talking about epidemiological space and a sum of movements, and the collateral damage as it was in the past year is not taken into account. We were able to enjoy the models of the RIVM again this morning. From these models you can see a huge rise, enormous fear, huge panic, but in reality nothing happens. That is because of the measures. And especially when the British variant came in, we thought "it's going to be very bad," and then we extended or introduced all these measures: lockdown; curfew; visitation scheme; 1.5 meters; no shaking hands. How is it possible that the increase in the British variant is precisely, one-on-one, indicative of the measures? It's almost impossible to do that in a model, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u111	All I can do is report the facts. We now assume in the Netherlands that about two thirds is the British variant. That's increasing further. We're afraid he'll take over completely. We assume that the British variant is on an infection R of 1.14, I say out of my mind. The classic wild-type variant is below 1. The average is currently 0.98.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u112	I understand that; that's the assessment. But what is important is that these measures are used precisely in relation to the British variant. That's weird. I find it quite strange that these models have such an exponential character, when we heard this morning that a number of things are not taken into account at all. Seasonal influences and vaccination policies are not included, while they are also very large effects. Those very marginal, small effects, such as a curfew, are taken into account. And yet you finally see that nothing happens in reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u113	What you see, of course, in the modeling, also with regard to the fear about the intensive care situation in the coming weeks, is that this can increase considerably. Of course, that depends on a number of assumptions. That is, by the way, under the cover of a hugely large result. Where it used to be a trumpet, it has become a kind of tuba. You can see that the worst scenario and the least bad scenario are far more apart because of some unpredictableities, then, let's say, last April/May. This also really raises the average. Against that background, plus the higher infectiousness of the English virus and the fact that with the whole current package we still have to assume a reproduction factor of the English variant that is a bit above 1... that wouldn't even be such a disaster if you had few infectious people in the Netherlands. But we've got a total number of infectiouss of about.................................................................................................................. Those are such high basic figures that you... That is of course also the advice that the virologists give us: be extremely careful and first look very carefully at how the risks we have taken and those were risks already a few weeks ago. I can see why people say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u114	This is something else, isn't it? That tuba is in the models, because it's just uncertainties. As you are further away, you will need a larger tuba if you want to call that.......................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u115	That tuba's gotten bigger than it used to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u116	Sure. If you're assuming that everything is much more contagious, then that tuba is also getting bigger. I understand these uncertainties. But I don't care about that tuba. The point is that the RIVM models are precisely used against the measures. That's almost impossible. That coincidence is just too big. If then nothing happens at all... Maybe I should conclude, because I do not think that the Prime Minister is going to give me an adequate answer to this. Last time I tabled a motion with Mr Kuzu to get these models. I would like to check them out, because it is almost impossible to believe that nothing is happening, because the measures precisely remove the British variant. That is almost impossible, especially when you consider that the vaccination and seasonal influences are not there. So maybe finally, or you're gonna repeat yourself, when are we gonna get those models?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u117	You already have one. They're in all the international magazines. Those models of Jacco Wallinga are used worldwide. But I thought Hugo de Jonge would be a little more specific in a moment. But you can consult them all in all international literature. And it's true that the RIVM modellers were able to predict what would happen last March/April. But it is also true that the spread, the variation in possibilities in the models looking to the future, is getting bigger. Good...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u118	Well, not good, 'cause I haven't seen those models yet. It's more than being published somewhere, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u119	Again, Hugo de Jonge will go into that shortly, or you'll get the links.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u120	I'll get them. The models now show that we will have 170,000 infectious people in May. That seems very unlikely if so far all these models have not been released. I like to check them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u121	Partly, of course, the explanation is that, through the measures, we are able to push out the peak of the wave in front of us, although we are in that wave. Of course, that's the good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u122	Mr Klaver also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u123	It is in line with Mr Wilders, because he talked about the medical risk groups between 60 and 64 years old. But underneath there are also very large groups. Actually, you can spot two. I am thinking of young children who, although the schools have been reopened, cannot go to school because their parents are in a risk group and are very afraid to take the virus home. The consequences would be enormous. This really means that these parents too belong to that group and must be vaccinated quickly. But think of other young people as well. For example, I got a message from a young woman of 25 with a connective tissue disease. He's not on the list yet to be vaccinated. Soon, hopefully as soon as possible, her peers can go back to school, but they can't, because the risk is far too great. How does the Cabinet view this group? How are we going to ensure that they don't line up in the back of the line, while healthy 40s are vaccinated before they do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u124	Hugo de Jonge will go into that in a moment. I agree with Klaver: of course we have to keep these kinds of groups in focus. We must also prevent one group from repressing the other group. I totally get that. I do not have exactly the groups he calls, but Hugo can prepare himself for it, especially now that the question has been asked so specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u125	That's what the Minister's gonna come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u126	But I agree with Klaver. You need to be very sharp on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u127	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u128	Finally. I understand that the Prime Minister does not now have a specific answer to when that happens. But I am concerned about the political question that we are asking here. After all, it is a division into scarcity, including vaccines. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this group should be vaccinated rather than, grab him, healthy 40s or 50s?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u129	My gut would say yes. But I don't have the latest advice from the Health Council in front of me. So I would like to take a small step there and let the Minister of Health answer that question in a more specific way. Then there are the economic aid packages. I have already said that we are going to look at that again. In addition, we look at two things. I heard the spokesmen of the VVD, the CDA, GroenLinks, the Christian Union and other parties speak about the TONK, and in particular about whether this TONK is sufficient. Shouldn't you make sure that the aldermen involved are generous in dealing with this TONK and that they are also in direct contact if it turns out that the resources are insufficient? So there are questions about adequacy and about the range of resources. This is under discussion with the VNG and Divosa. We shall come back to it very soon in line with the remarks made in the Chamber. I said the same thing on Monday. It is expected that reports on how we are going to do this will soon be forthcoming, particularly with regard to the TONK. This also applies to the TVL. Comments have also been made on this subject. It has been asked: shouldn't you increase it to 100% for the next quarter? I have to say that there are still technical comments to be made, but I understand that movement in itself. That's exactly what we're trying to figure out. We will also find out how this relates to other arrangements and to when they could be applied for. So that's what the cabinet will soon come back to. This applies to both the issue of the TVL and the issue of the TONK. We discussed the partner income test in detail last time. I should therefore like to refer to the previous debate on this point, because we discussed it in great detail. The question that remains is about the public transport sector. How's that going? Just to be clear: as far as the cabinet is concerned, and probably as far as everyone is concerned, public transport is a vital sector, including for the longer term. That is why we have agreed with provinces, municipalities and carriers on the availability of public transport and all fees during the corona crisis. A great deal of money was made available for public transport in 2020. This also applies to 2021. The arrangements for the period from October 2021 are now under discussion with local authorities and transporters. As soon as there is more to be said, we will, of course, let the Chamber know. At least I won't, but the rulers will. Then there was the question about the non-food market stalls. That is also part of what you can do with next steps. Unfortunately, it is not on the list as we planned before the end of March. But of course that is one of the possible steps you can take. Then, of course, it should be under the condition of the other stalls that are already there. A question has also been asked about the guarantee fund. Does the Cabinet have any discussions with the Security Council about this? I can say that we have these talks on a continuous basis. They're also about the opportunities for events. It will cover the month of June and thus the European Championship. Mr Dijkhoff asked a question about this. As far as the date of 1 July is concerned, it is already early in our view, given the risks that the virus still poses. However, I can say that we will be returning to the Chamber in the very short term on the detailed conditions of a guarantee scheme. At the moment we are thinking of 1 July, but of course we will look again at whether that is the best date, also in the light of the discussion we are having here today and the suggestions that have been made. So we are going to work that out and then that date will come back here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u130	I also asked about this guarantee fund whether it could be involved in the discussions with the Security Council. I think there might also be a public-order interest in organizing business. It is difficult to ask event organisers to help manage things properly if they have to bear the risk themselves. So I'm trying to get a second angle in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u131	That is a valid point. That's what we're getting into these conversations. That's a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u132	Then Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u133	The Prime Minister indicated that he would find a vital sector. So does the Animal Party, but the Finance Minister of this cabinet seems not to think so. He's just saying, "Well, just let the NS drive a little less train, 'cause they're gonna have to cut back." At least those two don't speak with one mouth. From this point of view, it is very clear that there is an urgent need to make quick agreements here. 1 June is really, really too late to be able to make a financial contribution to the fourth quarter of this year at all. Because the Prime Minister thinks it is such a vital sector, because he thinks it is so important, I really want those agreements to be made sooner than has been agreed. That is really very important, because otherwise there are going to be lines cut, fewer trams are going to run, fewer trains are going to run. That can't be true for a vital sector, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u134	I will come back to that in second term. So I come back to the young people, to the question I was thinking about Segers about the colleges, and at this point. I know those conversations are going on. It's about the situation from October, so from the fourth quarter. Mrs. Van Esch is asking if we can speed it up. I would be inclined to say yes, but I would like to double-check if that doesn't make me step into a big pie. I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u135	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u136	Finally, I have one question about the post-crisis situation. In our way of seeing you have at some point a moment when many people have been vaccinated or at least had a first vaccine. The cabinet has expectations about this, of course depending on the delivery schedules. That's really under caveats, but in itself it doesn't look bad towards the summer. There is, of course, a time when society can do more because there are opportunities in the combination of testing and vaccination. What is ultimately necessary for society as a whole is that when the time comes... here I go into the field of election campaign, so I quit. Let me make a point here. It is necessary to think about the way you make sure that society gets back on track. In this context, several parties have made proposals. The CDA, through the Minister of Finance, currently the leader of the list, has made statements on how to deal with this. Things have also been said on behalf of my own party and other parties. I call the PVV, the Christian Union, GroenLinks. Again, I am making a point because this seems more like something for the election debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u137	The prime minister and/or leader of the VVD wants a recovery plan after the corona crisis. I was wondering whether that recovery plan also states that it is inevitable that the most wealthy in the Netherlands will make an extra contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u138	Well, at least more than with the Labour Party, because in the passing of their program they rise, funny enough, more than with the VVD. Apart from that, it seems to me to be a real political question that we need to answer in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u139	But then you don't have to take it out on others either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u140	That's silly, isn't it, but it was a factual observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u141	Good. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u142	I object to that, too. The Prime Minister and/or list leader of the VVD will say in the newspaper pontifically that a recovery plan is needed. Just now he mentioned it himself. We have indeed had a debate in which this has been discussed. The Prime Minister and/or list leader of the VVD confirmed it, but I wasn't at home yet or I read another two in which a twist was made and it actually came back on. Suddenly it was not inevitable that the most wealthy would contribute extra. So I think it is a very real question: where is the Prime Minister now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u143	It is where it stands, and that is that we think that the burden does not need to be increased. But if it is necessary, the richest will start to contribute first. Sure. Mr. Chairman. I think that answers all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u144	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned and then the Minister of VWS gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u145	Mr President, I think I shall begin by asking the questions on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u146	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u147	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u148	I call the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was my enthusiasm! I start with the questions that touch on vaccination and then I continue with the questions that touch on testing, the quick testing, the self-testing and everything that has to do with it. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to start with the requests and questions about people with a medical condition. I think it would be a good idea to take a look back at what we discussed last time. There are a number of groups with a medical indication. The Health Council has advised us on this. The main advice and the main clue in our direction was that the most important medical indication is age. You can see that very clearly in all models. Every time the Health Council advises us on this, it is both confirmed and further substantiated that age is the most important medical indication. In addition, there are a number of groups with a very high risk, a risk similar to those of people of high age, 70- to 80-year-olds. We do those groups at the same time as we poke the 70- to 80-year-olds. They will largely go through their own medical specialist and will be invited from week 12. I believe that's what the letter says. In addition, there are a number of groups with a similar risk to those of 50 to 59 years of age. These groups will be vaccinated after the people who are now being pricked by the general practitioners, namely the people aged 60 to 64 years plus two groups of people at higher risk, namely those with a BMI above 40 and those with Down syndrome. These are people with a medical risk comparable to those of people between 70 and 80. That's why these people are being done right now. In short, we have asked very precisely who the people with an increased medical risk are. Then we started the classification in such a way that we pricked it at a similar time to the age group with which their medical risk can be compared. Then, of course, we look at the most practical effect. For example, people who walk with a medical specialist can be more easily invited by the medical specialist than by the general practitioner. People who live at home, but cannot leave the house, can be easier done by the general practitioner. If they are in the systems with the general practitioners, they can easily be invited by the general practitioner for a shot. So that's how we did it. We discussed last time that people are not always clear when they are actually next. Can't we just let that know and explain it better? We're building a site right now. I think it's ready this week... where people can see very precisely when they're next, not only depending on their age, but also depending on their medical condition. I say'very precisely', but I mean this by all the reservations that have to be made, because it depends on the vaccination rate of the group just before you whether you might be a little later. That is certainly true if there are setbacks in the deliveries, but of course we all understand that. I would very much like to get to work on Mr Wilders' e-mail. If this lady has a medical risk similar to and belonging to the former group, the people at high medical risk and people between 70 and 80, then she will be invited by her medical specialist at week 12, so in two weeks' time. But I can't tell from the e-mail whether her risk is comparable to that of people between 70 and 80. If that is not the case, she will, of course, come to us on the basis of her age. I read in the mail that she is 70 years old and I expect her to be invited in April. But I will look very closely at whether we can help this lady on her way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u150	Did you answer all questions about vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u151	No! I have had quite a few questions about this. For example, Mr Klaver rightly points to a group which is not actually in the group mentioned by the Health Council with a medical risk. These include, for example, children whose parents stay at home because these children are at high risk. We're not vaccinating kids right now, and how are we supposed to deal with this group? But the opposite may also be the case. For example, you are talking about children who are currently staying home as a precaution, because they do not want to infect their parents who have a medical condition. Both groups are groups to worry about. I spoke about this with the representative organisations last week and we are going to put this as a separate question to the Health Council. For the first group, the question is: is it, for example, ring protection? Could that be the case? It could be. Or then the question is: is there a self-contained title for children to vaccinate in that case? That's a question for the Health Council. Let's advise on that. As far as the second question is concerned, you should say that this can only be done if the group is clearly identifiable. That is very much the question. They are, of course, in any case at the time when these parents are next because of their own age or medical risk. But I'm working with these groups, because they're both not currently included in the currently appointed medical risk groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u152	We've hit a very sensitive chord in society here. I just interviewed the Prime Minister about that e-mail. I do not exaggerate when I say that in the few minutes after that I have received about 100, 200 emails; I have about ten, twenty here with me. They're all old people in the Netherlands from 60, 70, 80, whether or not with diseases, who say they haven't heard anything yet. I have an e-mail here from a GP. He says: "It is not true what Mr Rutte says. In practice, not one person between 60 and 64 has been vaccinated. I even have a 100-year-old patient who hasn't gotten an invitation yet." That's a GP, for God's sake. A lot of people watching now, Mr Prime Minister, I hope you realize that those who are at age, who are 60, 70 or 80, are very worried. They've often been at home for centuries. They're at home for months, sometimes a year. They have diseases. They don't even dare to go up to the elevator to do groceries because they're afraid to breathe a virus. Those people are now waiting and hearing us here in the Chamber talking about the young people again, all understanding of that and how vulnerable the young people are when they are inside. I share that, but let's not forget the elders. You may have all those e-mails from me, but that's not a do. I would like you to make it clear to everyone in the Netherlands, whether you are doing it through an advertisement, via the GGD or through the GPs, please make it clear when they are next. Because once again, people are at home in a difficult situation, with a partner. They're sick, they're old and they can't go out. They hear us talking about kids. They'd like to know when it's their turn. Can you do something for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u153	Absolutely. I very much share Mr Wilders' concern. I get these e-mails from people who don't know where they are, of course. The first thing we had to do for this was that in the group that we know has a higher medical risk in the case of corona..................................................................................................................................................... This group amounts to more than 1 million people in total. It is, of course, too long before the current deliveries take their turn in one go. We did. We have put the group with a very high medical risk and the group with a slightly lower but nevertheless higher than average medical risk side by side. Then we looked at how we can best design that. Who can invite these groups? You should know that. We want to do that at such a time that it is comparable to the medical risk that people have anyway because of their age. We all have that ready at the moment, but I know that there are indeed people who do not yet know what they are up to. That's what was discussed here last time. That has led me to improve communication and see if we can build a website in such a way that people can know for themselves at once when they are next. It's almost ready and following this week. In addition, I do not quite understand the example of the general practitioner that was mentioned, because the general practitioners know very well where they stand. They have been informed through the LHV. I made that appointment once and again through the LHV. The group of 60 to 64-year-olds, plus the people with a BMI over 40 and the people living at home with Down Syndrome are the highest medical risk groups and those are in the range of the GP are already being vaccinated, but we do that province for province. That's exactly what we agreed on, because the AstraZeneca vaccines didn't provide enough for us to do the group as a whole. But the general practitioners really know what they're up to. Nevertheless, it can sometimes be a puzzle for people themselves. I know, so I'm doing everything I can to do it as accurately and as well as possible for these people. As far as I am concerned, you will send me the e-mails you will receive, because I want to inform these people very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u154	Thank you for that. I'll be sure to. I'll send them all to you. Know what you're saying, because there are a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u155	Just these people's e-mails, eh, not all the e-mails.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u156	I mean, of course, these people's e-mails. There are a lot of them, so know what you're saying. But what I mean is this. I think the Minister knows, and I think a lot of general practitioners know, but it's all about me that all those people, all those older people at home, apparently don't know. You say I get a lot of e-mails. I believe you. I get five minutes after interrupting the Prime Minister all kinds of e-mails again. All colleagues will probably have the same and receive these kinds of e-mails; I will be no exception. It just turns out the elderly don't know for themselves. They're worried, if not panicked, at home, often with diseases. These may not be the worst diseases, but they are very bad for them, so much so that they haven't been able to go out for a year. I want these people to be informed somehow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u157	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u158	Whether that's via the GP or via a website, although I don't know if someone from 93 is still looking at a website. But at least I want you to find a way to get people to look at it. On that point, I would like a guarantee. I'll send you everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u159	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u160	But make sure that those people get their information and b are vaccinated as soon as possible, if they succeed and if the vaccines are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u161	Absolutely. We want the same thing, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u162	I believe that, but will you tell me how you're gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u163	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u164	When?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u165	In the next letter I will return to that. But here's what I'm gonna say anyway. I expect this week's website to go live where everyone can look it up for themselves. It's an age and medical condition. Then you have an indication of when you're probably next and how you're invited. That's what I'm trying to do this week. But I will also use all other means of communication to reach this particular group. Of course, I know this group because I speak to people and because I get the same e-mails. So I know people are worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u166	Thank you for the Minister's answer, but he forgets one group. There are two mentioned: young children with a medical indication........................................................................................................................ In addition, children with high medical risk and young children who are unable to attend school at the present time. But there is another group: young people over the age of 18. Suppose, for example, you're in your 20s, you're studying and you have a muscle disease that also puts you at greater risk. I have just heard nothing about this group in the Minister's reply. It is now planned on the roadmap for the same time as all other 18- to 40-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u167	Let's go back. The first indication of a medical risk is age. That's one. That's the most important medical indication. The Health Council has recommended this once and again. In addition, there is a limited number of groups with a high medical risk. Depending on which condition a younger person has, it is his turn for very rapid vaccination. As of week 12, that invitation will go through a medical specialist. It's a limited number of diseases. In addition, there are a number of conditions called "fever vaccination" which is another part of the flu vaccination group "fever vaccination" whose health council says: for this the medical risk is similar to the 50 to 59 year olds. These will be done by the general practitioner after the group 60- to 64-year-olds plus the two groups with a high medical risk already being done by the general practitioner are ready. In short, it is really clear when to turn to people with an increased medical risk. The other two groups are in a way separate from that. That is not entirely the case, because the first group I am referring to is the parents who keep their children at home because they are worried about age, or based on medical indication. Children whose parents are worried about restricting their entire social lives are a great concern, and I do not share that very much because the vaccine is not yet used in children. For this, you should either opt for ring protection, or still choose to administer the vaccine in young children. Anyway, at the moment, no vaccine is allowed for people under 16 years of age. That last group is the hardest, you might say. Those other groups are really soluble on the basis of the classification as it is now made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u168	Finally. Here too, a little parallel to what Mr Wilders said, is that the reports we get from 20-year-olds who have great concerns about when they are going to be vaccinated reveal a great deal of uncertainty. They feel like they're being pushed off the rails. I am not saying that this is the case, but I am saying that it is very important to give their perspective that they can participate. We should not make sure that the colleges are open again, but that there is an important group that cannot go there, because the medical risk is too great for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u169	Once, very once. For this reason, we have agreed with patient organisations and patient representatives such as Each one that we will intensify communication towards these specific target groups, including the website I mentioned in response to Mr Wilders, but also in all other ways, for example through patient organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u170	Like Mr Klaver, I am triggered by Mr Wilders' reply to the interruption. Because there seems to be more uncertainty in this discussion about when people are next than there has been no thought about prioritising. And yet that ambiguity is wide. This morning there was a bar chart in the Volkskrant. Although it was complicated, I think a lot of people can derive more from it than from what they have seen so far from the cabinet. The Minister refers to a website. I couldn't find that in the letter myself. That could be my omission. I could have read about it. But what kind of website is it exactly, what is it called and how can people turn to it? Because if that site is going to run this week, that can solve a lot of uncertainty, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u171	Yes. I can't reproduce the link to the website. I think it's just gonna be on corona vaccination.nl. That website is about when it's your turn. That's the point. You have to fill in your age as well as what medical conditions you have and then there's an indication of when you're next. That's what a lot of people want to know. It is indicative of course to say that, albeit with always a number of reservations, but we all understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u172	I think this might help. In addition, it is important, I think, that you not only fill that out, but that there will also be an explanation so that you can read it. Perhaps the Minister can check the exact name of the website, because there are a lot of people looking at this debate, and then they know that name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u173	Yeah, yeah. Sure, I'll check it out. I will mention that name in second term. I also promise I'll take a two this week. It can only be clear. I'm on it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u174	No, Mrs. Sazias first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u175	Mr Jetten and I have tabled a motion asking for a tool that people can simply fill in, and then they get an answer to the question when their vaccination is coming. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u176	That's this. I was just explaining that. It'll be ready this week, if it's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u177	Good. Then I have one more question. We're talking order. I wonder how 63% of the 80 to 84 year olds were vaccinated, 64% of the 90+ group were vaccinated, 73% of the 85 to 89 year olds were vaccinated, but only 3% of the 75 to 79 year olds were vaccinated. That is also much less than total group 18-plus. I think 3% is very little. And why can't married couples, for example, whose wife is 79 years old and male 82, be vaccinated together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u178	It's possible. If you ask, the G.D.D. will take that into account. Suppose you want saampjes to go to the prickstraat and one just falls and the other just doesn't in the age cohort, then the GGD wants to make room for that. That's good. As you read the numbers now, they're all right and they're just the effect of "from top to bottom." You're starting to vaccinate from the 90-plussers and the people who live in nursing homes. There, of course, live several age cohorts on their own. Of course, people who live in disability care institutions have a very different age. First the 90-plussers, then the 85- to 90-year-olds, then the 80- to 84-year-olds and since last week Friday or Saturday we started inviting the 75- to 70-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u179	This is something very important, what the Minister says here. If one partner of a couple gets an invitation and the other is just a few years under that cohort, do you have the possibility to get both vaccinated immediately, if you ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u180	It's been that way for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u181	I'm gonna tweet this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u182	Well, fine. That is also a form of public communication. It's beautiful, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. Then let's move on. I am going to answer a very fair question from Mrs Sazias about the nursing homes. A lot of nursing homes we've been able to inoculate. Some of them didn't, because there had just been a corona outbreak. In such a nursing home, not everyone was always able to inoculate, because people, for example, have very weak health. But at the nursing homes and small-scale institutions, we are a long way off. So you'd think: there you can really start by relaxing. It's possible. We are now taking a first step there on the basis of the OMT advice, by going into a nursing home where vaccination has taken place from one to two visitors. That's a step. According to the visitor scheme, the bubble in most nursing homes, which allows only three people to visit, can be released there. So there can be more than the same three there every time and then just the two of us at the same time. So that helps something. I think that in the short term there is no longer any possibility. I did say, however, that I want a working group to find out very precisely. This has to do with the fact that several houses say, of course, that we are also concerned. If not everyone has been vaccinated, but for example a part, 50%, 60%, 70%, we don't know that either; that can be the case sometimes, it is too soon to let go of the rules that is a great risk of infection in the home and still mortality. Of course, you have to try to avoid that. So there are houses where that plays. There's another way to take action. In addition, of course, it is always the case for these houses too that we cannot yet tell the degree of transmission inhibition. Well, you might say that if someone lives in such a house, a partner who still lives at home comes to visit there and they both have been vaccinated.Of course, that's the case in many nursing homes now, because the partners are often quite old as well, they don't have to keep a distance of 1.5 meters together. Of course, that's a blessing for those people. Especially since the people in the nursing homes are often in the last months of their lives. What can be justified, I would like to have worked out for both nursing homes and the elderly at home and the institutions in disability care. I really want to do that in the short term. Within a few weeks we really need to be clear about this, because then the nursing homes are largely done. Well, then you'd like it to be really spring. There's been so much incredibly suffered in those nursing homes, so it would be as beautiful as there could be first things there. This is a very important question from Mrs Sazias. Then I go to Mr Jetten's question about the vaccine stock. If only we could get a huge acceleration there. There have been several gears based on the stock. I think we kind of pinched what's in there. The next gear could be in production. That's what we're doing. Another one could be in the pricking strategy. That's what we're doing. But first, I'm gonna grab the stash. At first we had rather cautious stock provisions and we exchanged them in two steps for a stock determination of about five days. We don't always stick to that. We are also sometimes underneath that, but the available stock should be able to guarantee some five days of stings. This policy has been developed in consultation with specialists, logistics specialists. Not only from the RIVM, from Defense or from Movianto, where we worked longer, but also with people from outside, among others a professor, Jan Fransoo, and several members of VNO-NCW, such as the supply chain managers of Unilever and ASML. People from outside have been watching how you could do that most efficiently. We ensure that the supplies we get are removed as quickly as possible, but we do prevent major hiccups and major risks from arising. I think I need to explain. In recent weeks, for example, AstraZeneca didn't last a week in succession with the prognosis for the weekly delivery for the following week. He said in week 8: there are still 100,000 fewer. Instead of 250,000, there were 150,000. At week 9 it said "it's getting 34.000 less" and at week 11 it said "it's getting 111,000 less." If we had not kept any stock there, we would have had to cancel tens of thousands of agreements and then re-establish them, pushing through the agreements that were at the time. In short, hundreds of thousands of calls. That would have been the result. Now we could catch it, with the result that on March 1st there were 25,000 doses of AstraZeneca in the refrigerator at Movianto. That's extremely little. The available stock was therefore reduced to 25,000. Those five days, are we going to stick to that very faithfully? Actually, no. That's where we're actually at the limit of what's possible or beyond the limit of what's responsible. Next Sunday, for example, there would be about 87,000 available stock of BioNTech/Pfizer in the freezer. You can't stick with that for three days. In short, we are very sharp on the wind in stock. If only you could speed up the stock. That's just not possible. That's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u183	Were those Mr Jetten's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u184	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u185	Okay. Then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u186	At AstraZeneca there were indeed disappointing figures and expectations, but also positive news about Pfizer: twice more than previously announced in April. This morning, the Minister also reported 100,000 extra vaccines. That is all very good news, to stay in that European average or get the lead. At the same time, we also see in today's figures from ECDC, the European umbrella organisation, that the Netherlands is the third of the lowest percentage of available vaccines that has been placed. The Netherlands now accounts for 62.8% of the actual punctured vaccines delivered. Lithuania is at 100% and Denmark is at 97%. Greece, Portugal and Spain are all around 90%. That is what my question is really about. What's that 30% difference? According to my quick calculation, these are 400,000 shots that we, as the Netherlands, could actually put faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u187	We'll just see what's in the fridge. Hence the figures as I just mentioned them. I don't know these numbers. I'd be happy to take a look at that. I've noticed all the states I've seen come by lately that I thought "hey, what's the deal?', That when we went to look at it very often it turned out that there were all kinds of apples and pears in it. I'd like to take a look at this. Of course, ECDC is a reliable source, so I'd like to see what's going on. I think it has something to do with how you build up that sum. You get vaccines in, and when you get them in, they need to be cleared. First you get them put on the sidewalk in Oss and then they need to be cleared. For example, during that clearing, the temperature excursion is examined, so whether they have been accidentally above the temperature at which they are allowed to come. They're checking the box to see if there's what the manufacturer says is in the box. There's a fireplace being done. It'll take a couple of days. There's usually three days in between. Then you have available stock. That's what I just mentioned, numbers available. Besides, you've got the stuff that's being run out. It's gonna take a while to get poked. At the G.D.D., it's very fast. Because of the logistics, the general practitioners take a little longer to stick it away. In short, between putting it on the sidewalk in Oss and the moment it actually sits in an arm for a while. That could explain these figures. But the question is: is there any way to send the stock even faster? The answer to that question is: no, I really wouldn't think that was justified. No one who advises us thinks that's justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u188	This morning in the technical briefing for the House of Representatives it was Ernst Kuipers who advised this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u189	The question is whether he can see that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u190	Yes, but that's why I'm asking the Minister now. We know from preliminary research from Great Britain that anyone who has had the first shot has an 80% less chance of getting seriously ill or getting into hospital. So schedule the first shot very quickly. Please bear in mind that you have to put a second, because I agree with the Minister: you also want to put the second. But I'd rather we schedule a little more and then cancel people every now and then because we say "the deliveries were down, we're giving priority to the second shots, so you'll be back soon" and that way we'll get rid of the 62.8%. I'll get it up to the minister in a minute. Then hopefully he'll be able to find out more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u191	I wouldn't put too much value on that state. What we're doing is just seeing if we can get the stash in the upper arm as soon as possible. I do not think we disagree on this. I'm counting on what would have happened if we were more risky than we were when it came to AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca is a wonderful vaccine. The deliveries are only extremely unreliable. If we hadn't had some supplies, we would have had a huge problem, with all the people we should have called off and let down. BioNTech/Pfizer has been delivering extremely reliable lately. That's what makes deliveries go up. So you can take a little more risk there. So that's what we're doing. But next Sunday Jaap van Delden will be biting his nails, of course. 'Cause he looks in the fridge and he sees that there's almost nothing left in it, and he looks at the pricking arrangements and he sees that the agenda is bombed and bombed. In short, we sail sharply to the wind, and a tooth too sharp rather than too little sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u192	I would be pleased if the Minister could take a look at the ECDC figures. If there is anything to push out to increase the pace even further, it saves a few tens of thousands of pricks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u193	Yes. In order to reassure Mr Jetten, this is constantly being done. The stock and stock management as well, are constantly reviewed. Also by outside logistics advisers, who have been telling us recently that we are taking a little too much risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u194	Mrs. Sazias, I see you again. Mrs. Sazias!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u195	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think I'm gonna kick that tweet out...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u196	Yeah, I saw you looking at your phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u197	...to let people know. I open my Twitter account and it's full right away. With one tweet saying, it's true what the minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u198	A real-time fact check is that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u199	Yeah, but it's also full of tweets from people who say it's not right. "My mother is 80 years old, and the man she's been married to for 25 years is 78 years old, and they can't take the shot together this Friday." Here's one. There's a lot more. It's kind of random, apparently. One GGD can do it and the other can't. I think this is important for people, for couples to know. I think it is very important that you make this clear in your communication to all the GGDs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u200	Then you'll have a Twitter session, but outside the debate. Then you can also answer these questions right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u201	I'm on it. As I just put it, it's policy, but you don't have the examples for nothing. It doesn't work out so well. I'm on it. Then I'll tweet the truth myself. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u202	I hope that the answers to the questions and less to Twitter will also be listened to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u203	Yeah, but a real-time fact check is fine. It's very hip. It's a third screen. That's really good. Mrs Marijnissen says that you said that on 1 July you had the first shot, but is everything ready? Yeah, everything's ready. There is plenty of work being done, also on scaling up the puncture capacity. At the moment, the pricking capacity is of course larger than the number of pricks you get and whatever you can put in. There is therefore no limitation in the puncture capacity for the speed. All the time you look at what's planned. Then you get the calls from the suppliers: remember when I promised you it would be so much in that and that week? Then it's never gonna happen again. It always gets less and later, always. It's always less, less, less, always. So what we have to do all the time is to ensure that we have that capacity. We also have to bear in mind that deliveries are pushed a little backwards each time. So what we take into account is that we are ready in time for a very large capacity, but also that we are going to get peak deliveries in the second quarter. That's why we agreed on this. The G.D.D.'s gonna go up to 1.5 million shots over the week anyway. The general practitioners will do about 250,000 during the week anyway. General practitioners and hospitals are ready to put together up to 2.5 million per week on a number of peak days or in peak weekends. So that's added to the 1.5 million of the GGD and the 250,000 of the GPs. So that's in order to get rid of those peak deliveries when a lot of deliveries arrive in one week and not to keep them in stock for too long. So my impression is that we are quite ready for that. Then the vaccination certificates. A number of questions have been asked. I think it is good to be very precise about what we intend to do and why. This is entirely in line with previous discussions that we have had here. Earlier here in the Chamber a motion was adopted that said: no direct and indirect vaccination obligation. At the time, the cabinet immediately said that we share that view. There will therefore be no vaccination obligation and no indirect vaccination obligation. I think that's important. I heard that suggestion was made in a number of places, including those of Mr Van Haga. But I would like to emphasise that there will be no vaccination obligation, no indirect one either. Then we have said on many occasions that we do not want people to feel compelled to prove that they have been vaccinated. Of course, we do not want people to be forced to vaccinate, nor do we want people to be forced to prove that they have been vaccinated. That's important. Mr Segers has asked for an opinion from the Health Council so that we have a proper ethical framework to base our decisions. We asked for that advice from the Health Council. That advice came in. The letter you received last Monday contained the cabinet response. That was the reason for the coverage this week. In doing so, I think we have done justice to the ethical dilemma which Mr Segers has rightly outlined. We have also done justice to all those who say: it is of course true that at some point you are in a situation that some part of society has not been vaccinated and some part of society has not been vaccinated; how do you deal with it? How we want to deal with it is thus. So point one is: no vaccination coercion, not even indirectly. We do not want people to feel forced to prove that they have been vaccinated or that they even feel compelled to be vaccinated. The second is the ethical dilemma that emerges from it. Of course, you don't want some kind of two-stream society to emerge. You don't want to make a distinction between the people who have been vaccinated, who can do things again, and the people who haven't been vaccinated, who still can't do a lot of things. So we don't want that two-stream society. You still have a medical dilemma. That is that we do not yet know exactly whether the people who have been vaccinated are also contagious. That too is something you must want to overcome. That is why we see it as follows. We are going to work with access tests anyway, not for essential services, but only for non-essential services. These are amenities that make life beautiful, but not necessarily necessary to live life, such as events; that type of amenities. But that is not basic education, or public transport, or anything else. We're not gonna do any of that. But in non-essentials, we're gonna work with access tests. Then we could technically arrange it in such a way that the app that should support that access testing also makes it possible to give a green check mark if you don't read negative test evidence in that app, which then leads to a QR code, but that you read a vaccination certificate in that app, which leads to a QR code. Or we could eventually make it possible for the app to read that you have already had it and thus have built immunity, if we know that this gives the same degree of transmission inhibition as vaccines at any time. In short, there are several ways to get a green check mark. That green check mark needs to be shown at the entrance. So whoever's at the entrance checking if you can get in safely, don't know if you have a negative test, if you've been vaccinated or if you might have built immunity. That makes this solution possible to meet all ethical concerns and at the same time does what we want to do with each other, namely to make things possible again when the risks are limited. I believe that this solution is also exactly in line with the balance in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u204	Then I have Mr Jetten, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u205	This is a very nice route: either you're immune because of a previous infection, or you opt for that self-test, or you've been vaccinated, and you can anonymously show your green check mark or your QR code. That sounds promising, much better than all the restrictive measures we have now. A number of countries, including Spain, say they can do this at a rapid pace, perhaps as of May. The Minister aimed at the summer in the letter and at the press conference. Does he see opportunities to do it faster for the Netherlands than the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u206	I got the question: could it work before the summer, because we want to go back on summer holidays? The summer vacation is a special reason to want to do this because Italy, Spain or one of the other countries we like to go on holiday may ask for a vaccination certificate. I don't know yet, because if that makes tourism possible again, they will do it, but if that limits tourism, they probably won't do it. So I don't know if they're gonna do it yet, but they're really excited about it right now. Of course we have to make that technically possible in the summer. We will also have made it more technically possible if there is a medical reason for this. The limitation is not so much the technique; the technique can be adapted quite quickly. The limitation at the moment is, in particular, the medical risk, because we simply do not know enough. Spain will not know faster than we or it, given a certain vaccination rate and given the transmission inhibition, about which we learn for example from Israel or the UK, who are a bit further on vaccinating...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u207	But not before May? That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u208	It's okay to explain what's going on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u209	But it is a specific question, so I would like it to be answered in concrete terms, with a date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u210	That is a very concrete answer. The technique is not the obstacle, but the medical risk is the obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u211	In the meantime, will the Minister set everything up so that as soon as it could be medically turned on in that app?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u212	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u213	That's good, 'cause we're gonna speed it up. Then I have another question. I myself and Klaver, but I also think a number of others, want to prevent that, when it comes to testing as proof of access, you get a new division there, because some people can and some people can't afford that test. How does the Minister view the call for free self-tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u214	That's actually in the next block, but when it comes to access testing, of course, the government's gonna pay a hell of a lot of money. It's in the books now for about half a billion, I think. So we're actually going to pay most of it, anyway, at this stage, because otherwise it doesn't come off the ground. There is therefore no obstacle on the financial side of the access testing case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u215	That's good, because I think it's always cheaper than the support packages we have to do now because of the heavier lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u216	Yes, very. Although the word "cheap" and everything we now spend on testing does not necessarily fit in one sentence, because we spend a lot of money on testing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u217	It can go too fast, because we don't yet know very well about the infection, the immunity and false positive and false negative tests. There are still some uncertainties, so we can be too quick. But it could take too long. It can also be an endless access ticket, while we may also find ourselves in a situation where there are risks that are actually part of the normal risks of life. So is this a step-by-step approach, at least establishing that the vaccination certificate is not the exclusive ticket for society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u218	Yes. You have tabled another motion in that debate. That motion is about the scenarios. We have described in detail in this letter the scenarios as we see them before us. If I look through the hairs of the eyes at the scenarios as we see them before us, then I think the most likely scenario is that on the threshold of the summer, on 1 July, we set 18 million shots. That's what I think based on deliveries as we know them now. Two thirds of people are then fully protected and one third of people receive one shot. My assumption is that you will see a strong reduction in the epidemic even before that time. With a strong reduction in the epidemic, the question of how quickly you can scale down is, of course, very quickly. We will do so with caution, but certainly not more slowly than is possible. In this way, of course, you say goodbye to all the restrictive measures as we know them now. But in order to make things possible even before then, where it may not be epidemiologically responsible at all, we want to work with that access testing. Are you going to do access tests longer than strictly necessary? No, please don't. Let's do anything you can without access tests, please. Consequently, access tests should not last longer than is necessary, nor should they limit them, but should only give them freedom. I think that should be the test for us. If access tests give more freedom, because it is either access tests or the non-continuance of the entire event, then it is a good idea. But if access testing is going to be an obstacle, then it's not a good idea anymore. Are we sure about that? Can I say, well, I think we'll be pretty much done with those access tests in the summer? No, we don't know that for sure. There are a number of factors which are difficult to influence and which are rather decisive: the degree of transmission inhibition is very decisive, the extent to which mutations are going to play a role is very decisive, and the extent to which we are able to control ourselves for a while and not letting it get out of control is very much determining the extent to which we are recovering in the coming time. In short, we have only a limited number of factors in control that will determine, and most of the factors are hardly in control. I think we should take that into account. That makes me reluctant to say: until summer we're going to test access and then it's done. But I do say that access tests must always give us more freedom. So once it restricts us instead of giving us more freedom, we have to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u219	I think we are going to talk about this more often, because this will indeed be a step-by-step approach. We'll know better and better, even on the basis of research, how the infection is. So that's what we'll talk about. But I am keen on this, because first of all it has a very fundamental reason: it affects the physical integrity of people, the personal freedom and the role of the government. So we have to be very reluctant about it. That is what the Chamber has expressed itself on, and the Minister has now repeated this: I am against coercion and also against indirect coercion. So we have the same starting point. But the second reason is that it also works counter-productively. I've noticed in this pandemic how suspicious there is of the government. The Minister has seen that like no other. Then let me say out loud that it is not wise to say that you have no understanding for people who do not want to be vaccinated yet. I make a personal choice in that. I'll do that. Based on what I know and see, I will advise everyone to do so. I think we should put all the information on the table to encourage people to do so, but it must always be a personal choice. If the Minister says quite loudly 'I have no understanding for that at all', then that leads to the same suspicion, while we want to reassure people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u220	Thank you for the question, because I can explain it well. Mr Van der Staaij mentioned that as well. Last Monday's press conference told me that I am against vaccination and that I do not think we should ask people to prove that they have been vaccinated. Then the journalist in question responded: okay, so you have a great deal of understanding for people who are not going to be vaccinated. Then I said: no, I understand zero for people who are not going to be vaccinated. But of course I do think that people have the right not to be vaccinated, because vaccination is always a free choice, always, always, always. We're not going to a two-stream society. It's always a free choice. By the way, I do have very little understanding, zero understanding, one might say, for people who are not going to be vaccinated. This simply has to do with the fact that at the moment there is only one way to really say goodbye to all those terrible measures that we are suffering from. We have been suffering from the virus for a year, but now we are increasingly suffering from the measures needed to control that virus. If vaccines could take over that work from us, and we see that they are doing so, then I do find it almost impossible to understand. For example, I know of a nursing home where some of the employees are not being vaccinated. I find that incomprehensible. Over the past year we have seen enormous excess mortality there, to use that terrible word. Corona has caused a huge number of people to die in these nursing homes, a lot more than in a normal year, and a lot of people normally die in nursing homes. On January 8, we were at the peak in the nursing homes, with 858 contaminated locations, I say out of my mind. On March 8, we were at something like 350 contaminated locations. These are locations that have had an infection in the last 28 days. What is the solution to counter this terrible death, that terrible disease and that terrible suffering in those nursing homes? That's vaccination. If you work in a nursing home and say, "Well, no, I'm not gonna do it," I do find that incomprehensible. I don't understand. No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u221	I don't know if it's my understanding, but maybe there's a difference between understanding and understanding. You don't have to understand, in the sense that you agree or that you can totally follow it. But understanding also has something to do with respecting that one could conscientiously come to another consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u222	That's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u223	That's something else. In that case it is true, but perhaps it is true that the Minister's statement also puts bad blood on people who I hope will consider all the information in peace, get it all together and then come to a conscientious decision. As far as I am concerned, I hope that is the decision to be vaccinated, but if people are conscientiously reaching a different decision, I would say that we must respect that. You might not have to understand. You don't have to agree, especially not. But please give people space, just because it helps them finally cross the line and allow them to choose freely to be inoculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u224	Then it's very precise. With all the grief and suffering that we have seen in the past year, and with the insane effect of vaccines, the particular thing that science has managed in a year to bring this terrible disease and all the suffering that it causes to an end, I do not really understand when people say: well, anyway. No, I don't understand. But I will always defend the right not to opt for vaccination. That is why I will always say to anyone who says "maybe such an indirect vaccination obligation is a good idea, because then you will always seduce people to be vaccinated": no, just not; it undermines the willingness to be vaccinated. It undermines the willingness to vaccination if you oblige people to vaccination, directly or indirectly. That's why I'm so strong against it. That is why I am fierce against people who are suggesting that we are doing so. Because that's not what we're doing. We don't have a vaccination obligation, and we're not going to. It's never gonna be an obligation for people to prove they've been vaccinated, ever. At the same time, I think we should say to each other: vaccination is simply the way out of this crisis; let us please use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u225	With the minister, I'm grateful for the vaccine. It's unbelievable that we went into a lockdown a year ago and started all the misery; it's a good thing we didn't know it would take at least a year to have a working vaccine. That's something I'm just grateful for. But words matter, even in relation to people who are still hesitant. That's all I'd like to give the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u226	I'm not making the headlines. But I've said what I said, and I'm standing up for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u227	I had also mentioned this in my first term, because I see that there are people who are very conscientious about it. There are also well-known historical and theological arguments; the Minister also knows that history and see their responsibility, but still say: no, I do not think I should take that step for myself. They're really struggling with that. I do not think it is entirely right for the Minister to pretend that all these people are saying, "Well, I won't do it for a moment." That's actually what he's suggesting. Why doesn't he speak with a little more respect about people who are conscientiously making different choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u228	I think I know the theological tradition Mr Van der Staaij is referring to. I think we've been raised in a fairly similar tradition. The same applies to Mr Segers. However, that does not give me any greater understanding of the choice, for which I have absolute respect. I respect that people come to a decision in their own way. But what I find difficult to understand is that in our tradition, when God has given us the opportunity and has endowed us with the ability to develop vaccines, one would not use that possibility, knowing that you can end a great deal of suffering and suffering with it. I find that really hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u229	I understand the Minister's reasoning, but I also understand the reasoning of people who make a different choice. I do not think we are getting that far by saying that we understand zero or 10% of the arguments of another person. In the view expressed by the Minister for Health, he must give the right information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u230	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u231	That's what I see happening. I think this is a lot of noise and it doesn't help in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u232	What I'm saying is, I don't make those heads myself. I remember how that interview went. It suggested that I would have a great deal of understanding because I say that people have the right not to want to prove that they have been vaccinated. It was suggested that I would have a great deal of understanding for people who would not want to be vaccinated. I have just said: no, I do not understand that. But I really stand for the right to make a different consideration and choice. That was the conversation, but that didn't quite fit in the head; I don't know, but I think so. That's why the headline above that article was a bit rounded up. So the context was left out. That is why it is a good thing that you ask that question, because then I was able to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u233	Well, then, as far as the ticket is concerned, it's tested. We agree that vaccination, and therefore a vaccination certificate, should not be a direct or indirect requirement for access to society. From an access test on non-infectiousness, the Minister says he'll be there anyway. But doesn't that require more precision? Shouldn't we see if it really is? That is also what we are looking at in the context of the restrictive measures. Why do we have it? Take the goals we're talking about all the time, for example how we can prevent care from becoming overloaded and how we can protect vulnerable people. Can there also be a situation where the risk is not zero, but in which we say: in another situation we do not actually bring all the risks to zero? Is that balance still going to be very precise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u234	Sure. Perhaps first to reassure Mr Van der Staaij: there will be a legislative process anyway. The law has gone into consultation. He still has to go to the AP and to the Council of State, so I expect to be able to deal with it here in the Chamber in mid-April. I would like to see access testing under that law, in which we define the sectors and provide a basis for the processing of personal data, as a minimum of natural.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That law comes in the middle of April. Until then, we're going to practice for the ultrasound, you might say, with the field labs and with a number of events that we make possible with the current version of the app. Of course, he doesn't do anything with vaccination, only with access tests. He doesn't do anything with personal data at the moment. That's comforting. The legislative process has yet to be followed and we will have this discussion in detail. Can there be a situation where the risk is minimized in such a way that you can actually organize things and you don't need access tests at all? Yes, please. I hope as soon as possible. I just said in the direction of Mr Segers that once access tests become an obstacle rather than a restriction, we must stop immediately. You only have to use access tests if it gives us more freedom than we would otherwise, given the epidemiological stellar. So right now, with about 100,000 infectiouss, an R around 1 and a British variant that is still on the rise and owns an R above 1, it's really asking for trouble if you had a meeting with a few hundred people in the room. We've had the field labs, and every time we had access tests, five, six, seven infected people were taken out. Imagine what would have happened if those five, six, seven people had been at the event. Then it really would have become a feast for the virus and the GGD's would have had a handful of work. In short, that access tests works; that is evident from the first field labs. Well, that's very nice, because then you can make things possible that aren't actually possible yet. So freedom, and that's what the access tests are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u235	I think it is very good that we should be able to talk very precisely about this proportionality in this legislation. I was thinking for a moment about the discussion about the alcohol locks in cars, for example, or blow tests for driving. You can also say "well, that's a blow test before you start driving," but you can see that we also have a very tradition there to make a lot of demands on whether you can just ask people, while on the other hand there are really traffic accidents happening by people who have had too much to eat. So don't let it be too obvious that we're actually going to use tests to move freely in society. At least that's a slippery path that you can just go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u236	Well, at the moment of course the choice is: access tests or even a few days no events. I don't think you want to. You do want to make those events possible. And if you can use access tests to make more things possible, then it's a good idea. If it becomes an obstacle, or if you would think "the risk should be zero and otherwise you should never get together again at all," so if that becomes the reasoning, then I very much agree with Mr Van der Staaij. But that access test is going to help us to take steps towards freedom, where the epidemiology is actually saying something else - yet. Nevertheless, another 500-man conference, a cabaret performance, a football match, has taken place. And so we continue to organise such events of about this size in March and April, with access tests, and from the start of the legislative proposal we may also dare to do more. And I hope that's the beginning of May already, and then we're going to use a next version of that app, which also keeps people coming in a little bit more precisely who actually take the neighbor's phone under the arm instead of actually doing it with some personal data, so you can be more resistant to fraud. And then we are really going to include it in the roadmap, in order to make more possible than would otherwise be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u237	Please continue. Oh, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u238	Locking up, indeed. There are quite a few follow-up questions to ask, also about the technique you use, the dangers associated with it, but that will be dealt with further in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u239	Yes. This was just an introductory shooting for the bill, Chairman. Maybe it was the middle of April, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u240	How far along are you, if I may ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u241	Well, I'm a long way. I really am a long way. "No irreversible steps at European level," says Mr Segers. Well, I don't know what the Commission is doing. What we have to do with the Commission, of course, is not to invent the wheel 27 times, but to invent it once, and a wheel that you can use throughout Europe, and preferably in the rest of the world. That would be very kind. We're not gonna wait for it. We do not allow ourselves to be guided in our own medical-ethical considerations by what Europe thinks, but it is nice if the technique is a bit coordinated, and that is why we are just cooperating. I actually think I've answered most of the questions about the vaccination certificates. Then there is another question from Mr Van Haga, which is about the side effects of the vaccine. And Mr Van Haga also referred to our dispute, which we had last time, and would like answers to his questions. I also gave that answer last time, namely: at the moment, the side effects center Lareb obviously keeps track of what the side effects are during vaccination. This is also made known every two weeks or so, or every week. And up until 28 February, there were 6,426 reports that were just done on the website "Download," with 31,000 suspected side effects. And soon there will be a further update. And I think it's okay to check out those side effects as well. There have been 5.799 reports of the vaccine BioNTech/Pfizer, 386 reports of the vaccine Moderna, 159 after AstraZeneca, and 82 not yet specified. And if you look at what these side effects are, then maybe it's good to name it as well. That's muscle pain, that's headache, that's not feeling well, fatigue, chills, nausea, fever, and reactions to the puncture site such as pain or swelling or heat. Those are the side effects. But of course it is about: what is the effect? Well, the effect is: less mortality in nursing homes; less disease in nursing homes; fewer infections among the people who have now been vaccinated. Of course, that's just fantastic. So where the focus is on the side effects... By the way, I think it is important that these side effects are very well monitored, are recorded very well, and that Lareb also advises us if there is a pattern of side effects that actually leads to risks. Well, then, of course, you have to want to act. So those are the side effects. But I would consider it important to continue to name the effects of the vaccine in particular. It works against death and it works against disease. If there is a choice between headaches, feeling uncomfortable and fatigue on the one hand and illness or mortality on the other hand, especially in a year with over 15,000 people in excess, then I think the choice whether to be enthusiastic about the vaccine or not is not so difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u242	It's very good that we're getting an answer now. My question was indeed about the side effects. The operation is evident; let us hope for the best. If it's okay, it's okay. But when we talk about how things work, I would also like to talk about the usefulness of vaccination for certain groups, such as young people. I do not see that point at all. Maybe you can answer that right away. But my question about the side effect was what the differences are per vaccine. If you look at Lareb's information, you can see huge differences between the different vaccines. Maybe it's okay to light that up after all. Fever is a huge side effect with BioNTech/Pfizer, but with Moderna and AstraZeneca much less. The difference with the flu vaccine is also enormous. Because with the flu vaccine you get almost no side effects, while with BioNTech/Pfizer you see huge side effects. Thanks for the answer. It wasn't entirely complete, but I'm actually most interested in the answer to my supplementary question about the usefulness of vaccinating certain groups that are not getting sick of this virus at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u243	Then about the side effects. I think it is not surprising that the vaccine that you have been able to prick hundreds of thousands of has the most side effects, namely BioNTech/Pfizer, and that there are the least side effects with vaccines that you have hardly yet put, such as Moderna. I think that's statistically easy to explain. By the way, they are very similar vaccines with very similar side effects. Lareb also says it's actually very small side effects. Much more than flu vaccination... Flu is certainly not innocent to the elderly, not even at all. In a year in which there was quite a lot of flu, for example, I think that we had an excess mortality from the flu of about 5,000 people. So flu is certainly not negligible for the elderly; for young people of course it is. You can't say that about corona. We now know that about 10% of the people who had corona likes it for a very long time: long covid. I don't know if you've ever spoken to anyone who's had corona, who's used to doing a lot of sports or a lot of trimming, for example, and can't do that anymore. You really speak a lot of them. So I wouldn't say too quickly that it's a harmless disease for age groups other than the elderly. What is most important now, of course, is that young people contribute very much to the dissemination. In the end, you will certainly have to want to vaccinate young people. As we get variants and mutations that are more contagious, the base R will be higher. The accumulated group immunity, to use that word once again, will therefore have to be higher. We're not gonna build that all along the natural road. So it's very nice if you can vaccinate as large a group as possible. That is why I said to you last time: please be very strict in the words you say when it comes to vaccinations. I think that the expressions that are being made, not only of you but also of the caravan that travels through the country...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u244	The Liberty caravan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u245	Well, the conspiracy caravan, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u246	Well, call it the freedom caravan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u247	Who are undermining...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u248	I just want to... this discussion went a little like this last time. I've been looking back at videos of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u249	Well, that might be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u250	It's okay to let each other have a little chat and finish this. 'Cause I don't think you guys are gonna get together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u251	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u252	Well, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u253	Maybe, but for the whole video, it's a good thing this element gets in there too. I think that's good information. Corona is a terrible disease. It has been holding us in the grip for a year now, not only because of the suffering and suffering caused by the virus itself, but also because of the measures you have to take to control the virus. Vaccination is our way out. That will only work if people are sufficiently prepared to be vaccinated. We can see that vaccination rates among older people are very high, but especially among young people, the question is whether they will be high enough. That is precisely why we need to be very precise and honest in the facts we share. Vaccination is the way out. The side effects are negligible and are very well recorded. Vaccination's working. It just turns out to be working. So I would really like to ask Mr Van Haga not to undermine the willingness to be vaccinated, because that is simply a danger to public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u254	Of course, you can argue about that. But first, let's talk about the side effects. The Minister talks again about absolute figures, about an absolute number of vaccinations. I'm talking about percentages. That mistake is made all the time. I don't care how many have been vaccinated. The percentages show that at BioNTech/Pfizer there is much more fever, namely 28 to 45%, and at AstraZeneca almost nothing. That is a substantial difference. Then it doesn't matter how much you vaccinated. So that's an absolute fool's errand. Secondly, the infection after vaccination may still be present. So why would you vaccinate young people when you know they can still be contagious? Why would you force them into a vaccination passport if you know they can still be contagious? That even gives a very false sense of safety, because at a festival you can go in with your vaccination passport, while you are contagious. Again, firstly, it is not a good answer and secondly, it is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u255	Just look at Lareb's site. They report once every two weeks on the latest state of the side effects. That just seems like the right thing to do. Then there is transmission inhibition and vaccination passport. That's exactly the point. I have just explained to your colleague Rob Jetten that, of course, we still have an important medical bump before we could work with a vaccination certificate at all. Because you don't know enough about the degree of transmission inhibition. Moreover, it is unlikely that the transmission would continue in exactly the same way. The viral load of people will be much lower if they are no longer infected. And take a look at the examples of the countries where they are already far beyond. Israel, for example, or the UK. There you can see a significant transmission inhibition. So the assumption is in general that that transmission inhibition will be decent. As more and more people themselves are protected by vaccination, you can still handle a bit of transmission. You say the vaccination passport is being forced on people. The way you talk about that is exactly one of the things I'm worried about. We're not imposing anything. No one has to go from us to a festival. No one at all! No one has to go from us to a non-essential provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u256	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u257	That is why we use the testing "Pesticide" as a test passport or a vaccination certificate only for non-essential provisions. One always has an alternative. I would like to mention, for example, an immunity certificate or a test certificate. We will never oblige people to vaccinate. Nor do we want people to feel obliged to prove that they have been vaccinated. And that's important. Maybe it's good for the movie too!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u258	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u259	This is, of course, very hilarious. "We're not obliging you to go to a festival." No, you obviously decide what's essential for certain people. And then you force them indirectly to have such a passport, then you still force them to take a vaccination. However, you have still not answered the question about the different vaccines compared to the flu vaccine. But I'll leave it at that, because you were right. We're not getting out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u260	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u261	Well, I'm out of it! Mr. Chairman. Then we'll go to the testing. That's the next block. There has been talk of the 26 million on the shelf. Well, luckily they're not on the shelf. We simply use them in the GGD-test streets. We're gonna use them for access tests. They're being extradited to employers. They are extradited to schools, for example. So they're definitely not on the shelf. They're just used. I told them I ordered the Service Testing to buy in as much as I could. I already did that when those quick tests were just on the market, when they hadn't even been validated. And they did. So that explains the 26 million. The VVD asks why they're not in the store yet. This has to do with the fact that the current antigen tests do not currently have a CE marking. At least they don't have a CE mark for self-testing. I think that's an important distinction to make, so that the Babylonian confusion of speech doesn't get too big. Antigen tests can be used as a quick test, just in a test street. But we want to use them increasingly for self-salving or for guided self-salving. But the CE marking that one has is always about antigen tests as a medical product. A derogation should therefore be granted for that CE marking. We've invited companies to apply for that waiver. A number of applications have also been received. So that's good. And if those applications have come in, and those companies are going to deliver, then they could just be in the supermarket. 'Cause that's okay. Then the exemption was granted. So it doesn't just have to be used as a medical product anymore. One of the real adjustments that the companies themselves have to make is that they have to replace those long swabs with a shallow nose cloth, as it is called. I just like that word to use. That's a good word, isn't it? Our vocabulary has been absolutely enriched this past year. Mr Jetten and Mr Klaver asked questions about costs. I think that they were talking in particular about the access tests. We're gonna pay a hell of a lot of money for that. Really, really big. I think the bill goes up to half a billion or so. And if we're gonna pay the whole bill... at least we're gonna pay a hell of a lot of it, because especially in the start-up phase, it's just being funded by the public. It wouldn't be entirely illogical in itself in a while that if you go to the cinema, you also pay a few euros for the test. Because why would the rest of society pay for it? That's one way to reason. But that doesn't apply to education. However, this is not an access test, but the use of quick tests or self-lossing in education. We just don't want to make that available anyway. We have made a scheme for employers with guided take-off and actual take-off. We want to sponsor employers to make use of this. It's about a cap of half a billion, 450 million. In addition, of course, we pay heavily for testing anyway. I believe it's costing 26 or 27 million a week, government bill. Don't worry, we're nailing a lot of money into testing. Mr. Chairman. I think these were the questions about testing. A very short block, I'd like to say. It's almost impossible, but it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u262	Good to know. Then you're done, I guess. But Mr. Klaver hasn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u263	A message has just come from GGZ Nederland. They ring the bell: especially in the youth-ggz they do not have enough places. A few weeks ago, a motion from us was adopted to extend crisis relief. GGZ Netherlands now warns: for all those young people with severe mental problems, code black is imminent; triage will also be needed. My question to the Minister is: what have you done recently to increase capacity there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u264	I don't know that message, so I don't know what they're referring to. I do know that there are institutions where, for example, absenteeism among the staff makes it complicated. Especially at the ggz, of course, even for corona, there is a much bigger issue about enough places. Mr Blokhuis is obviously working on this, not only with the ggz, but also with the places for the youth ggz. You yourself have tabled an amendment concerning I think 26 million more every year to stamp out centres of expertise. They're working on it. It's under construction. This leads to extra places, but also additional expertise to help existing places with the most difficult young people. These are, among other things, the steps that are being taken. It takes too far to have a whole ggz debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u265	The message is from just now, so I won't go any further on that. Maybe the Minister can come back to it in the second term. It is a very specific question: how many additional crisis beds have been added in recent weeks? The Chamber was very clear about it: we need to create extra places, because a bed in the crisis shelter in the ggz is just as life-saving as a bed in intensive care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u266	Absolutely. I am either going to come back to it in second term or ask Blokhuis to send a separate letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u267	That's what we hear in the second term. Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u268	I had asked another question about the availability of low-threshold bladder tests. I believe that Mr Dijkhoff of the VVD also asked that question. We also discussed this in the debate two weeks ago. It was about that example of that pub or restaurant where you were still in the picture with one of those things on your...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u269	It was a flattering picture with a pincher on my nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u270	Apart from the flatulence, that test was alcohol-sensitive. That kind of testing, low-threshold and on-site, could provide a giant solution. You said at the time: it's a Dutch company and there aren't many tests available, but I'll take another look at what's going on. Do you already have a little more insight into the extent to which this test can be readily available to entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u271	I'm just gonna take a few things apart. First of all, there is the bladder test, but it had a problem with the use in the GGD street, namely that a number of the results deviated. This means that there must be a renewed validation. I don't think it's finished yet. Eventually, we're going to go to about 1,800 devices. They are distributed between the GGDs and the access testing sites. That's gonna be great. Then the access tests themselves. The first capacity is there. In March, that's about 25,000 tests a day. In April, we go to about 100,000 tests a day. And in the end, we want to be at 400,000 by the end of May. We are working on this through the Stichting Open Nederland, a consortium initiated by VNO-NCW and made possible by us. That foundation's running the access tests. Does it help the catering industry? That's a separate discussion. I was just having a discussion with Mr Segers that you should actually use those access tests if more freedom can be offered. You hope that the catering industry can do things, for example those terraces later, without using access tests. Because if that's the obstacle factor, if you have to be tested before you can start drinking a beer, I don't know if those cafes are gonna be full. So I think that a lot of restaurants really just want to get started without access tests, and I would like to do that, at the terraces anyway. Imagine restaurants saying, "Yeah, okay, at some point, if that's possible. For example, I can do with a group of 30 if I don't do access tests, but I could go to 100 if I do my access tests." I think they will be very enthusiastic and I would also like them to be able to use the access tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u272	Of course, I mean the latter, because I also understand, of course, that every entrepreneur, like all of us, would prefer to go out without that test. I think you can go to a terrace anyway, because terraces are outside. But that is where we differ. But inside a restaurant, of course, we prefer to work without a test, but if we can do it with a test, such a restaurant owner would no longer have to limit the number of customers. For example, he could have a full tent again. Are you saying that these tests can be carried out at the restaurants, so that this can actually be done on site? Of course, that has the advantage that you don't have to register it anywhere anymore. You said that I don't know how many of those devices are being made and so it could be done just like with those devices at the location itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u273	No, I can't. The maximum production of those devices is 1,800. So it's really very inefficient. Furthermore, specifically for those breath tests, they need to be calibrated on the spot and recalibrated after transport. They're very sensitive devices, and besides, they can't stand alcohol. So I don't know if a blow test like that is going to work very well in the hospitality industry. So you have to do these bladder tests in central locations. What we're gonna do anyway is these access tests. The Open Netherlands Foundation of VNO-NCW goes to, I believe, over a hundred locations. So that's going to be a very dense network in the country. Such a test remains valid for 48 hours and that's how we really want to do it. I'm assuming that the movie is going forward for a few months, that in May we're going to see, for example, that people are going to be tested in one of the entrance tests for the weekend, and that they can then go in with that negative test result where they want to go in, by reading that test result on their app. I hope that, once they have been vaccinated, this could be an alternative to that negative test result. This way we can make things possible again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u274	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u275	Finally, Mr President. But I'm just looking for ways so it doesn't have to go through that test street and that app. That should then be registered again and put on your app and... Well, that may have advantages, but I also see a lot of disadvantages. I'd love it if a way would be developed to test someone at the location itself, so he could only go in at that location somewhere. The bladder test was done in two seconds, but there may be other possibilities. I think that has huge advantages over a central test street and an app.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u276	Yeah, but there's also a lot of downsides. Can you lean on the results, for example? Can you lean on the reliability of the results? If you're okay with the 1.5 meters behind the gate being released... That's what you get when you fill up a restaurant. By the way, I also want to test in the field labs, but of course it gets creepy when those tests are taken messy, huh? Of course, you want it taken away in a good way. It must be done in a reliable way, otherwise we will simply get too many risks. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u277	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u278	Thank you, Mr President. There are a few questions left that affect my territory. Mr Heerma received an interruption from Mr Wilders when he asked about the care reserves. He said that there are about 6,500 people available, but only 2,000 have been offered and they have not even been accepted. How is that possible in view of the shortages? Yesterday in the letter I indicated what we had been doing since the fourth quarter of 2020 when we were all in the middle of the second wave, all in order to prepare for the third wave, but also in the period before that, of course, we have already worked hard to link people to healthcare organisations. I refer to the second wave in which about 6,300 people have been nominated and 2,400 people have been accepted. Then, of course, Mr Heerma's question is relevant as to why not everyone has been offered to healthcare organisations. It's good to know that extra hands work for care demand-oriented. An organisation submits an application and describes how many extra staff they need. The recruiters will then offer suitable people. It is true that on all applications several people are offered. That explains the 1,900 people who have now been proposed in preparation for the third wave. You can also see that healthcare organisations are currently watching how the third wave develops and how high it will be before they apply. I would like to say here that I am very grateful to all those who have applied. I agree with Mr Heerma that we want to motivate more people to be part of this movement for the healthcare reserve. This also means that the matching is getting better. In this light, I also consider his request to respond to the idea of a national campaign to create a national healthcare reserve. We've had a campaign for healthcare reserves since the beginning of February from Extra ZorgTogether. On 23 March, a platform will be made live on social media and they will start working with plans to shape targeted recruitment actions, especially in companies, but also in hospitals, which they know are working with many former care workers. In addition, we are engaged in a campaign for experimental gardens. I have already given you some insights; they were also in the letter. So we're working on that on several fronts. I would like to ask Mr Heerma if that is what he means. As far as I'm concerned, we would also like to add the link to the healthcare reserves on the Discover the healthcare website, so that it becomes even easier to register as a healthcare provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u279	I have two questions about this. The Minister's answer explains the difference between the 6,500 and the less than 2,000, but the sentence ends with "but not yet accepted." Unless I get it wrong, I don't understand why those 2,000 have been offered but haven't been accepted yet. Does that mean that no one has been accepted yet, or that it is not clear how many people have been accepted? Because because of the way the Minister writes it, it almost seems as if it is an answer to a question that has not been asked, while the deficits are indeed there. The second question. I have seen that in the third of the four tracks something is being done with more attention being asked, but that is not yet a national recruitment campaign. Tens of thousands of people leave every year, I believe even sometimes more than 100,000, people from care. Many of them indicate that they still want to be available for care. Then a large-scale national campaign should be able to activate them for the future, so that we have tens of thousands of people ready if we need them in the future? So I'm asking for more than it says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u280	That last one's why I checked. I always think that in a campaign you want to see advertisements in bus booths, on social media and everywhere, so perhaps I can agree with Mr Heerma that I will see if that is an option in the second term, also because of the fact that we have of course already run a number of government campaigns. But the idea appeals to me. The same applies to the examples he gave and those were supported by Mr Wilders. For example, if you see the reservists in the police or in the Defense Department, I think a lot of people would like to do this. Then there's the first question. It's about people who haven't been accepted yet. There is sometimes a mismatch in what organisations ask of people and what people can offer. Then that's what you're talking about. That's why, learning from the first wave, we put professional matchmakers in between. Those are HR professionals who can say to an organization: "This person is available. It can't do everything you ask, but you can also cut a function in half and maybe work with several people." So it is also a qualitative process that sometimes involves some time and energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u281	But with that last answer, the Minister says that, despite the fact that we are talking about deficits here, organisations are experiencing less deficit or they are saying something like, "We are working as we have always worked. There is a shortage, but we are not prepared to take advantage of the possibilities that exist"? 'Cause that sounds a little through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u282	In my view, that would be too short. I can just imagine that an organization that is short-lived will indicate what it needs. That's legitimate. If you see that you have people who could match, but maybe not on all parts of the function but on a part of it, then you're going to find a solution. I'm not giving any judgment on that. This is what we learned from an earlier phase in the process. We've just put people with professional H.R. competences in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u283	I would ask the Minister to be a little passionate about this. This needs passion. People need the feeling that they can proudly be part of the National Care Reserve, just as people are proud to be part of the National Reserve of Defense. Make TV commercials and bet well-known Dutch. Do something. Make sure it gets into the living rooms. Make sure that people not only know, see and feel that it is necessary, but also that they know, see and feel.I think the time is now ripe for them to be proud of it if they belong to it. Just take that step extra, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u284	I like that call. We have a number of activities running. It was my intention to look at this term to see if that is what was meant to be. I feel challenged, so I pick it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u285	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u286	Mrs Ploumen said, and this has also been part of previous debates, that there are people who are dealing with delayed care. She asked me to register these people and to avoid that delay as much as possible. I think we all see how hard people in health care are working right now to take everyone in and to continue as much regular care as possible. Fortunately that is better than in the first wave, but we have talked about this before and we have also postponed care. If patients have to deal with delayed care, they will of course remain in touch with their treatment. So there's a registration. If they can, they'll get an invitation to make up for that. Look at the reservoir, as we call it with an ugly word, to delayed care. I believe that Mrs Ploumen also referred to this in her speech. We can see that we are going to work on that, even when the third wave is over. I promised that in the previous debate in the Chamber. I believe that Mr Wilders also referred to this. We are currently making a plan with the NZa for the accessibility of care after the covid pandemic. Depending on how busy it will be in the healthcare sector in the near future, I will be able to show that plan to the Chamber in mid-April.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u287	A lot of people are worried that they can't go to the hospital and that treatments are being postponed. It is very good that the Minister is going to see to that. We will follow her very closely. In the meantime, I'm still very concerned about the population survey on breast cancer. During the corona pandemic, it was shut down for a while. Then it was postponed. In fact, women over 50 should have a check every two years. That has now been three years, despite a motion adopted by a majority of the Chamber. I would ask the Minister to respond and to do everything possible to get back to the frequency once every two years. We have seen over the past year that, due to this delayed care, women were diagnosed too late and treated too late, with all the risks involved. This will become common practice in the coming years, because this population survey is only going to take place once every three years. I'm very worried about that and I'm not the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u288	I think Mrs Ploumen is right to refer to the concern we all have for the people she calls. I am just saying quite honestly that I do not know the exact state of the work of the motion. I'm gonna have to check. I can come back to that in the second term. I'll just say this: we learned from the first wave that you need to find this passage. That's what it's all about now. It has a medical reason whether or not you're being seen. Hence the call I repeat here again to contact the GP if you think something is wrong, because then there is a medical reason to refer you or not. But don't think of it yourself. That is a subject of a different order from what Mrs Ploumen describes. However, it is of the utmost importance that we allow this type of care to continue as much as possible. It also legitimizes why we all have to stick to these measures so that the space available for regular care and catching-up care can be used as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u289	One of the most terrible elements of the corona crisis over the past year is that due to the lack of care capacity people have seen their necessary care delayed. People with cancer, people with heart problems; it's terrible. We've asked this minister about this before. Then she came up with a story about how many years it would have taken. But we now have for the first time a hospital in the Netherlands, I mentioned it in my term, the Tilburg Elisabeth-TweeSteden Hospital, which announced a few days ago that the lack of care capacity in that hospital alone caused 68 people complications and that at least seven people died because of them. And I'm talking about one hospital in the Netherlands. Now that this hospital announces that, I would like to know, I have already asked what these figures are like for the whole of the Netherlands. Can the Minister check at all hospitals in the Netherlands for how many people it has caused complications and how many people have died due to delayed care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u290	I checked in the suspension because I was touched by Mr Wilders' example. I was also wondering when this was in time. This seems to be an experience from the first wave. As far as I'm concerned, that also legitimizes why we don't say that anymore. I can't guarantee that despite the framework, despite the agreements, despite all medical contacts, things won't go wrong. Unlike RIVM and otherwise what the NZa has done, I can't just give an indication of what has or hasn't been lost in years of life or who died because of it. The maximum we do is with the NZa. In any case, it is a huge motivation for me to say that we cannot allow care that really needs to be taken forward to happen again. For me, it is also an enormous motivation to insist on the measures, so that this concern can continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u291	Sure. I understand that, but it's just not an answer to my question. I had asked if, in the light of the figures published by the Tilburg Elisabeth-TwoCities Hospital last weekend, namely 68 people with severe complications and seven people who died due to delayed care, you could check what this is like in other hospitals. You promised this last time, when you said 'we don't know yet, I can only say something about years of life'. Well, this now concerns real lives of people and complications in people who fortunately didn't die. I would like you to take stock of what these figures look like for the whole of the Netherlands. I think the Chamber is entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u292	If that's possible, I will. Then there are the questions raised by Mrs Sazias and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on recovery care. The four-month period was mentioned. I understand people are worried. I am very sorry that they are running into that now, because it feels like a restriction. When we set up the temporary arrangement, the idea was that long-term complaints would quickly be revealed. Most people do. But sometimes the diagnosis "complaints due to the aftermath of covid" waits for a long time, because other causes of long-term symptoms are first considered. I agree with Mrs Sazias and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that this is obviously not the intention. Therefore, C-support, the foundation for people with long-term covid complaints, now has a special button on its website where patients can pass on problems with or advice on recovery care. This can happen even if they suffer from a painful period of time. I think it's a good idea for people to report there, because C-support bundles these signals and advises us on improvements. In addition, we are also in conversation with the Healthcare Institute to look at the scheme as it is now, to see if it should be permanently included in the insurance package. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen about the personal budget and the budget holders. In any case, I can say that some 70,000 pgb care providers, namely those who provide care in the context of Wmo, the Wlz and the Youth Act, are eligible for the health bonus. There we have sought as much connection as possible with the healthcare bonuses as they also applied to healthcare organisations. That arrangement is open. We have said, because of this alignment with the other arrangement, that it is difficult for people to decide about themselves or very direct family that they have achieved an exceptional achievement. I would add that this has indeed happened and that it is very much appreciated. I therefore indicated to the Chamber on 8 December and on 2 February that for this reason this group, which is in jargon the 'ovo-fam group' is excluded from this scheme, but the good news is that some 70,000 pgb carers can benefit from this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u293	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u294	As far as I know, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u295	Then Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u296	Mr President, thank you. The Minister states that the scheme is widely used to get healthcare providers to apply for the bonus from pgb care. Now it is just that, for example, cloak parents have kept the external pgb carers out of the door during this crisis in order to protect, in order to prevent contamination of, their chronicly ill child. So they actually took over that 24-hour care from that external care provider, who is then paid for at home. Those cloak parents will be paid from the pgb. They're already falling over. It's really a quiet, unseen group. They can then not claim that health bonus. Doesn't the Minister think that's a bit harsh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u297	Of course, we started working on that health bonus for people who work at healthcare organisations. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen was quite right to say that she was particularly keen on the fact that there was nothing for the pgb-holders. So I am very pleased that this arrangement is now in place. We checked to see if we could make them look as much like each other as possible. We have also said to the people who work for a care organisation: you cannot apply for a bonus for yourself. Think of thezzp'ers, for example. That's what your client really needs to do. After all, you want to have tax money, as well, an objective demonstration of an achievement, regardless of the fact that you naturally have an income limit and that it has to be about that period. If you then look inside the pgb domain, you can see that this can be very wide for example Wmo, Youth Act and Wlz. That criterion of deciding about yourself comes very close to people who do that in the family sphere. Then the choice was made not to. That was also difficult for me, because I know the examples as Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen calls them. That is why I reported the intention to the Chamber in December and the decision in February. I wanted to be very transparent about that, because I realize that this can be a damper for people. At the same time, we wanted to join as much as possible with what other people had decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u298	It is particularly harsh, because in fact all the parties in this Chamber and the Cabinet say that we should give more appreciation to carers. I read in the scheme on the website of the government about the pgb-bonus: we greatly appreciate the commitment of the caregivers in the family sphere. Then I think: what is the appreciation of the cabinet? It's not a monetary valuation. They are often people who really go beyond their own boundaries to take care of their neighbors and really do exactly the same work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u299	You can, of course, pay a very nice arrangement, I think, people from your own environment, who are very immediate family, via your pgb. That's fantastic. If you then look at the criterion of whether or not you can objectively assess the performance, you see that it pinches there. I have done that exclusion, but I thought it was a bit harsh, as if no good care had been taken. That is why I am committed to expressing that appreciation. But this is how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u300	Finally, on this point, because you differ a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u301	It is true that these caregivers, these parents of chronically ill children, are paid out from the pgb. That's all checkable. That's all requested. It's framed hours. I do not understand why this could not be objectively judged. The payout from the pgb is based on hours, based on objective conditions? So I really don't understand why there's no sleeve there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u302	With thezzp'ers we said that you can't apply for that bonus for yourself and that you have to do it through the one who hired you. That's the criterion we've passed on to this group. That's why this happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u303	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u304	I hear what the minister says, but these are indicated hours. So for example, the child, or the one being cared for, has been given a number of hours as an indication. That's where the pgb gets paid. That's objective, isn't it? Then you don't decide about yourself, do you? Then you can see very clearly: this cloak parent has provided an x-number of hours of care? Often that is much more hours than are given up. It's about your kid. That's just 24-hour care. Does the Minister still want to explain very clearly what is not objective about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u305	It's not about the number of hours indicated. When determining whether an employer is eligible for the healthcare bonus, he checks, for example, whether an extraordinary achievement has been achieved. At least that is what the Chamber has given us. How do you decide? There are examples in the hand-out, including for pgb-holders, for example that someone has worked other hours or has come up with covid contamination. For example, there are all kinds of criteria for saying as an employer or as a hirer: this person has performed an extraordinary performance. As well as an zzp'er who can say about himself, we have said to each other that we want to take a test of the person who hired that person, we have passed that criterion on to the personal budget. I can see why that feels a little harsh. Especially when people in their own environment take care of a loved one. But this is in the balance of things. These funds are also public funds. That is why we have set a number of rules. You'll always see. I'm the first to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u306	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u307	At the same time, I would like to say that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and others, with this motion, have ensured that there are really many, many people who have received €1,000. Also after that, the pgb scheme, which also employs 76,000 people. That is also very nice, and I would like to give it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u308	That is also a nice compliment, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Thank you, Minister. Then we have now arrived... Oh, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u309	I thought the minister would answer some more sports questions. I myself had a clarifying question to the Minister. Can you also offer outdoor sports on the outskirts of gyms, as is possible on other sports accommodations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u310	We have indeed made the choice for outside, to use that space. If I still have the right to speak about sport, I would say that I really want to say that it is not a question, in particular, of the fact that they did not organize it properly, but that the number of contacts means that we could not do so now. What then could have been, indeed, outside sports with four adults. At least that is a step forward. What the crux is, there's a handler. This is something that is important for enforcement, so the municipality is monitoring it. So basically, if you're not a football club, for example, which makes you familiar with the municipality, or a local sports worker with the Cruyff Court, but a gym holder, you'll get in touch with the municipality and say: I want this too; can I organize this too? Because for enforcement that's always part of our journey it should also be just to see if there are four people cycling in the park or if it's a sports activity. That has to do with the fact that space is limited because of the risk of contamination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u311	Thank you for the lovely words for indoor sports. But to understand it correctly: a gym holder can also offer activities on his own outdoor grounds, provided it is accompanied and provided it is attuned with the municipality to see if it can be done in a responsible way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u312	Yeah, and the latter is crucial, even for the gymnast, I think. 'Cause if a boa or a cop comes along, he knows it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u313	Thank you. Then we'll go to the second term on the side of the Chamber. I'm looking at those who need it. Then I come to Mr Wilders. I call Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u314	Mr. Chairman. I would again like to express my support for all those who have sent an e-mail following this debate. 50-year-olds, 60-year-olds, 70-year-olds, 80-year-olds, even 90-year-olds, chronically ill, lung patients, heart patients, people with immune diseases, muscle diseases, diabetes, cancer, all say, "Where is my invitation to be vaccinated, or my partner's?" They don't know. I find that incomprehensible. I'm sticking up for those people. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to clarify when they are due to underlying diseases, so that we know when the pressure on the ic's will decrease and we will regain our freedom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1034]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u315	Mr President, then there is a motion on freedom. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish curfews, open restaurants and shops and end all restrictions in the open air,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1035]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u316	Then as a back-up to the Minister for Medical Care, who has already more or less promised it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in Elisabeth-TwoCities Hospital due to delayed care due to the corona crisis, 68 patients experienced complications and 7 patients died;]] [[calls on the government to examine how many patients experienced and/or died due to delayed care due to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1036]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u317	Finally, if it is still possible, Chairman... one [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has not carried out the Chamberwide motion, which called for the addition of 70-plussers with comorbidity to the first groups to be voluntarily vaccinated from 6 January;]] [[calls on the government to implement this motion immediately in order to reduce the pressure on the ic's so that we can regain our freedom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1037]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u318	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u319	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u320	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion following the debate in the first term on the national healthcare reserve, Mr Wilders' question and myself and the start of enthusiasm with the Minister in her first term with regard to the national campaign. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant staff shortages both in crisis time and beyond;]] [[noting that this is due, among other things, to a very high outflow of care personnel;]] [[Whereas staff leaving care have received good training, have gained practical experience and are often motivated to do something in the care sector;]] [[noting that a first step was taken with the creation of a national healthcare reserve, but that it could potentially be much greater;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a national recruitment campaign to scale up the number of healthcare reserves as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1038]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u321	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the clear answer. Because we've talked here before about test and vaccination certificates, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current measures in the fight against the coronavirus result in significant social, social and economic damage for many Dutch people;]] [[Whereas an alternative strategy of frequent testing with free self-testing and vaccination also contributes to suppressing the spread of the virus;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, Israel and Estonia have developed evidence to facilitate measures;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce the already announced corona passport as soon as possible and at least not to wait until the summer so that people with a test or vaccination certificate can obtain more freedoms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1039]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u322	I would like to thank the VWS Minister for diving into those figures about the percentage of stock deployed. In case that further investigation shows that we can still squeeze more air out of it, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has significantly reduced its stock of corona vaccines by 63% compared to other European countries;]] [[noting that it is a real expectation that vaccine deliveries will increase rather than decrease;]] [[noting that initial corona vaccination can already bring health benefits;]] [[Whereas the faster vaccination of hundreds of thousands of people can contribute to less pressure on care;]] [[calls on the Government to accelerate the removal of the current stock of corona vaccines, taking into account all the advice of the Health Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1040]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u323	Mr President, thank you. I have two motions and a brief question. It is indeed about the ggz and crisis care for young people. I really hope the Minister will be able to come back to that in a moment. There's no time to lose. There's no time to answer that in a letter somewhere. It's gotta be quick. We must act quickly there. Mr. Chairman. What also needs to be done quickly is that education must be reopened. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the OMT proposes that, if further relaxation is to be possible, the first step should be higher education;]] [[Whereas the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau (SCP) and the Administrative Coordination Consultation (BAO) advise to give priority to opening up higher education;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with institutions in higher education, to start opening up on-site education from Monday onwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that rapid (self) tests for payment may lead to a division in society;]] [[Whereas countries such as Germany and Austria provide rapid self-tests free of charge and as a public service provision;]] [[calls on the government to provide free rapid self-tests for citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1041]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1042]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u324	Mr. Chairman. One more argument on this motion. I can imagine the Minister asking: are we going to make these tests available for as long as necessary in this whole crisis? I think it is a good thing that these tests are initially made available to everyone in the Netherlands to get used to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u325	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, which concerns recovery care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that many patients benefit from paramedical recovery care after severe COVID-19;]] [[Observed that patients often go through much longer with complaints than the four-month period during which they have to report to be eligible for paramedical recovery care under the current scheme;]] [[Considering that many patients experience difficulties with the mandatory referral by a specialist if, after the initial six-month phase, they wish to claim an extension of recovery care, since many of them have never been in contact with a specialist;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[extend or delete the period of four months after the acute phase in which they are required to report;]] [[in the case of treatment in the first line, the referral for renewal by a general practitioner;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Sazias and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1043]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u327	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u328	Mr. Chairman. A year ago, the Netherlands went into lockdown. The cabinet should have opted for a strategy to reduce the maximum number of infections. The cabinet should also have opted for a fair reward for all those working in the care sector. The cabinet should not have announced a recovery plan by the Prime Minister on Saturday. That was too slow and too late. This is the last debate before 17 March. Other choices are possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u329	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u330	Madam President. Thank you for the answers given. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, given the speed of vaccination, there is light at the end of the tunnel;]] [[Whereas more is needed to ensure that entrepreneurs reach the finish line;]] [[Calls on the Government to increase the subsidy rate of the TVL scheme to 100% in the second quarter of 2021;]] [[calls on the government to increase the budget for the TONK so that municipalities can quickly start granting this form of aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Ploumen, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kuzu and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1044]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u331	That's an impressive list of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u332	Yeah, impressive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u333	Then I have two other motions. The first one is about the vaccination passport certificate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that on 18 November 2020 the Court ruled that a direct or indirect vaccination obligation or coercive and urgent measures are excluded;]] [[Whereas a vaccination certificate as an exclusive access card for facilities or sites is a form of indirect vaccination obligation;]] [[Whereas there are also other ways, such as (quick) tests, to show whether someone is infected;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure in its policy and legislation that a vaccination certificate is not in any case possible as an exclusive access card for facilities or locations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1045]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u334	Finally, on the European debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the President of the European Commission has called on all Heads of Government to cooperate in the development of a European evidence demonstrating to the wearer that he has been vaccinated against COVID-19, is in possession of a negative test result or has immunity;]] [[Whereas, above all, health is and should remain a national competence, as previously expressed by the Chamber on 8 December 2020 at Leijten/Van der Graaf motion;]] [[calls on the Government not to take irreversible steps in the area of a European vaccination passport before the Court has given its opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1046]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u335	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u336	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u337	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. A year after the start of the corona crisis, which has had a major impact on the whole of our society, I noticed that for a moment I was referring to this in an interrupting letter that was sent to us in preparation for this debate, that we are dealing with a health crisis, but now also with an economic crisis and a social psychological crisis. This means that there is always a very special balancing art and we cannot easily say: there is no room for this, there is no other way. It keeps weighing. This means that on a number of subjects, such as higher education, on which I have co-signed a motion by Mr Klaver, we have made other proposals and adjustments to the policy that is now being pursued. When it comes to the more fundamental discussion of how far you go with access tests, I look forward to dealing with the legislative proposal, which allows us to discuss it thoroughly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u338	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u339	It was quite a quiet debate, although it was just before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u340	We're not done yet, are we? So it can be so... Thank you. It is indeed a quiet debate. Mr Kuzu's turn is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u341	Mr. Chairman. I promise I'm gonna keep it down, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to extend the curfew until 30 March;]] [[Whereas in April the Ramadan begins for Muslims, where it is important to be able to perform prayer at the mosque in the evening hours;]] [[Whereas curfew seriously hampers the religious experience of fasting Muslims;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that Dutch Muslims are allowed to pray in the mosque during the Ramadan if the curfew is still in effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is a large group of Moroccan Dutch people who wish to be buried in Morocco;]] [[noting that Morocco refuses to admit Moroccan Dutch deceased COOVID-19;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into contact with the Moroccan authorities in order to find a solution for citizens wishing to be buried in Morocco,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1047]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1048]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u342	And now the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a number of branches can be opened safely taking into account the corona measures;]] [[calls on the government to open solarium studios immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1049]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u343	I see Minister De Jonge looks very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u344	He looks happy all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u346	Thank you. Then Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u347	It was indeed a quiet debate, Mr President, but that can always change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u348	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u349	Mr. Chairman. I get a lot of messages from people. Even a member of the GGD who makes the arrangements said: I have absolutely no instructions to vaccinate couples together. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how he intends to better communicate and explain this. Restoration care after corona is also important. I have endorsed Mrs Marijnissen's motion, but I have another one that hopes to encourage it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large group of patients suffers from severe long-term symptoms of covid infection;]] [[Whereas recovery care is temporarily and conditionally admitted to the basic package so that patients are reimbursed for this care;]] [[calls on the government to permanently include recovery care for covid patients in the basic package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1050]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u350	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is developing a vaccination passport;]] [[Whereas there should never be a direct or indirect vaccination obligation;]] [[Whereas a vaccination passport will lead to the exclusion of people;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept the introduction of a vaccination passport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that shopkeepers have sounded the alarm clock and there is a wave of redundancies and bankruptcies;]] [[Whereas the RIVM has not designated shops as a source of contamination and the percentage of contamination in shops according to RIVM amounts to 0.7%;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the muddling with unsubstantiated relaxations in the form of a limited number of customers per store and to give immediate permission to the shops to reopen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that shopping is only possible by appointment;]] [[Whereas this leads to unnecessary administrative burdens;]] [[Whereas the number of people is already limited by the number of people per square metre allowed to enter;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the appointment requirement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1051]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1052]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1053]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u351	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the payment of the increased subsidy rate was postponed for the fourth quarter of 2020 when the TVL was established;]] [[whereas many entrepreneurs are facing bankruptcy and need the payout badly;]] [[calls on the Government to honour the promises made and to ensure that the payment is made immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1054]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u353	Before you begin, you will not read the motion you made last time. You can just put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u354	But I've got more signatories to it by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u355	Oh, that's fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u356	I'm gonna do it real fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the external distribution of the corona virus is less easy than indoors;]] [[Whereas, at present, only food stalls may be open on the market;]] [[calls on the Government to open the markets as a matter of urgency so that all merchants can return to their livelihoods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haga, Mr Kuzu and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1055]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u357	And then the new motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u358	Is this the previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u359	No, this was the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u360	Then it's okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u361	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas we can learn from the corona crisis to avoid similar crises in the future;]] [[Considering that in international forums, the way in which we should overcome the corona crisis, namely in conjunction with the term Build Back Better, is being developed;]] [[Whereas elected representatives of the people should have the final say on the post-corona crisis recovery;]] [[points out that the recovery plan to overcome the corona crisis is followed blindly, not the United Nations Build Back Better and the World Economic Forum, but that it is chosen for our democratically elected representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1056]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u362	Mr President, thank you. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, from 1 March onwards, healthcare providers who are paid from a pgb can also apply for a health allowance of €1,000 net, provided that they meet the conditions set out in the pgb care bonus scheme;]] [[noting that caregivers in the family sphere, including carers and family parents, are excluded from the healthcare bonus;]] [[Whereas, for example, cloak parents in this corona crisis kept out of the door, as a precaution, to protect their chronically ill child, and for months have been providing intensive care 24/7;]] [[Whereas it is completely incomprehensible that the cabinet claims to have a great deal of appreciation for the commitment of pgb caregivers in the family sphere and yet excludes these very concerned caregivers from the €1,000 health bonus;]] [[calls on the government to open up the pgb-care bonus scheme to family care providers, for example by officially making caregivers and family parents who provide intensive care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1057]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u363	Madam President. In the direction of Mr Van der Staaij, I have to say with regard to those non-food market stalls that they could, of course, be included in the retail package by the end of March. So I've been a little too economical about that in my initial reaction. This can also be part of the first steps in reopening in the retail sector. So I can add that to the first term; I was there a little too economical. Then there are physical meetings for young people, possibly also in higher education buildings. Well, I double-checked it, but unfortunately there are no physical meetings under the youth plan right now, because that is simply not possible right now. But if that were to happen at some point, it could of course be possible, but unfortunately it is not at the moment. And then on 1 July and the OP sector. As I said, these talks are being held with the local authorities. It's about the fourth quarter. It does not seem possible to speed that up terribly, but I can say that both Wopke Hoekstra and Stientje van Veldhoven, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State of IenW, are doing this with maximum speed. And everyone is aware that this is also a vital discussion, and they will soon inform the Chamber. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 1035, by Mr Wilders, referring to the OMT opinion and the debate: dissuade. The motion in part No. 1041, by Mr Klaver, referring to the debate: dissuade. The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. The message and the wish are clear. By the way, we have to look very closely at the content. We'll get back to that soon. The motion in part No. 1047: dissuade. Moreover, measures relating to one specific belief in life are not obvious, but in any case I cannot anticipate any future decision-making. The motion in part No. 1048. I must advise against this, because that problem is a result of the recent tightening up of Morocco's entry rules. The estimate is that we can't solve this. That's not up to us either. Of course, in regular consular contacts we are always prepared to raise the issue, but we do not recommend this motion. The motion in part No. 1049, referring to the debate on the epidemiological area, including for the solariums, is not recommended. And that also applies, of course, to the motion in part No. 1052 and the motion in part No. Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, And then the motion to part No. 1054: making such payments take place immediately. "Immediately" is not possible. We will do everything we can to make it happen as soon as possible, but "immediately" is not technically possible, unfortunately. And that's why we don't recommend it. The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 1055: referring to the debate, there is no room at the moment, so it is not recommended. The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 1056 is a ruling for the Chamber, so I do not have to give an opinion on that. But if I had been in the Chamber, I wouldn't advise her... Then I would vote against it, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u364	No, I didn't mean to, but okay. Then we'll just wait for a second? I now give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u365	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. First of all, the motion in part No. 1034. I would like to leave that to the House, referring to the debate we have just had. The motion in part No. I am going to dissuade 1037 because the observation is not correct; I have carried out the motion. I've just put a few other accents, because of the advice of the Health Council. And by the way, what is supposed to be in the operative part is really wrong. Unfortunately, by the way, I would like it to be true. So I'm going to discourage this motion. Then we have the motion in part no. 1040. That's a little problematic. We have, of course, just had that conversation in the debate. And I'd like to work on that ECDC list for a while, but we're flying very sharply with the supplies. Here the suggestion is raised that if you stick away more supplies, you could go faster, and that suggestion is simply wrong. So I must either advise against this motion, or I would ask Mr Jetten to hold it for a moment, so I can explain the ECDC list. Maybe you'd like that more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u366	Yeah? Are you holding the motion, Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u367	Can the Minister estimate the length of time he can go further into the list?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u368	A week or two, I think. I think it's sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u369	Yeah? Okay. Then the motion will be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u370	Then the motion to part No. 1042. I would like to go along with that when it comes to quick self-tests on access, at work, in education and, of course, in complaints. The government has a major role in all of this: not only in making it available, but also in paying for it. But I do expect people at the supermarket to actually pay for it themselves. If that's what you mean by that, I'm going to discourage this motion. If you mean all that other stuff, I can live with it. I see non-verbal that my interpretation of the motion corresponds to the interpretation of the authors. Then I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Yeah, that's important to the Acts. Then the motion to part No. 1039: calls on the government to introduce the already announced corona passport as soon as possible and at least not to wait for the summer so that people with a test or vaccination certificate can get more freedoms. I am going to leave the judgement to the Chamber because the word 'or' is in it; I think that is very important, and because it is actually just a supportive policy. I think the latter is important to say, because I would be sorry if there were another assumption. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1045. I am going to leave the judgment to the Chamber on this too. Also there I'm going to say that it's not exclusive, but always or-or-or. I am also going to say that it is genuinely policy support. It is precisely the line of the cabinet that sails. Then the motion to part No. 1046: calls on the government not to take irreversible steps. Yeah, I can just leave that judgment room. By the way, you have already made a number of statements in which we can operate perfectly. We will of course relate to every new statement. The motion in part No. 1051 I advise. The government is planning to do so. The recital, 'whereas a corona vaccination passport will lead to exclusion of people', is really wrong. We're going to do it in a way that doesn't lead to exclusion of people. I think it is important to underline that. So I dissuade this motion, the motion in part no. 1051. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u371	Thank you. Then we'll just wait a few moments. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had an open question from Mrs Ploumen. Secretary of State Blokhuis sent a letter last week containing all the steps taken by RIVM and the screening organisation. It also states that the commitment is to have sufficient staff again in 2024 to be able to screen every two years from that year on. That is the information I have at my disposal at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u373	Yes, briefly, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u374	Mr President, very briefly. It's 2021 now. So in three years' time, women will be able to count on a population survey according to the existing standard. That's a shame, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u375	This is the information I have at my disposal. I happen to have been in that vote when this motion from the Chamber was put to the vote. I can send this signal to my colleague, but I can't add anything to it now, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u376	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u377	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motions. Mr Wilders' motion on an investigation into deferred care, in part No. 1036. We've had an exchange of views on that. He did not refer to the research that RIVM is already doing on the health damage caused by covid. I have indeed promised in the debate that I would like to see if such information is available at the hospitals. I would like to say that I do not want to burden all hospitals with all the extra administration at the moment. If I have the freedom to do so, I'd like to do that inventory. With that I give this motion judgment Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1038 by Mr Heerma and Mr Wilders. I fully accept the encouragement to get on top of it. The motion gets judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 1043 by Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mrs Sazias and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. In the debate, I indicated that everything was going on. But what this motion is requesting, I must advise against, because that is something I want to follow up on the investigation. I also think that the Healthcare Institute has a role in that, so I advise against that motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1050, on the care included in the basic package. That's where the Healthcare Institute sits. We are working on the conditional admission process, but I think it would be good to finish that first. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the handwritten motion on piece No. 1057 by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, who by the way has a beautiful handwriting. In the December letter, I sent the intention to shape the system in this way to the Chamber, because I wanted to be transparent about it. I indicated in February that we had taken this decision. It does not fit in with the main rule in which an independent judgment is guaranteed. With that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u378	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u379	There is a need for a brief ten-minute suspension. I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes and then we'll vote.
