ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Non-indexing of the basic child benefit amount and the additional amount of child benefit in the General Child Allowance Act for the years 2022, 2023 and partly 2024; a very long title. I very much welcome the presence of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Wiersma. In the first place, it will listen to twelve Members of Parliament who will be making a contribution on behalf of their group. As the first speaker, I should like to give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the Socialist Party, with ten minutes' speaking time, which he has given up. I hope he knows how to stay in there. I'd like to invite him to the conference room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u2	Maybe you'll think halfway through... just keep going. That could just happen, Mr. Chairman. Yes, you have to dare: for years, squabble on your own implementing agencies and then, when you finally decide to invest in them, take away the money from parents, take away the money from children who grow up in poverty. This week is the Week of Poverty, the week in which there are initiatives to raise poverty on the agenda, to explain to people what it means to grow up in poverty. The people who are going to get caught by this bill don't have to explain that, because in the meantime every dime turns around twice is a second nature. They often don't know any better. And what's politics gonna do in that week? Those people are gonna take some money out of the bag. Shameless it is! The people in this room earn somewhere between one and a half tons. I'm going to make some predictions about the comments that are coming along: "What is a tenner a month?" "People can spare that, can't they?" "It's not that much." "There are other measures as well." There is no doubt that someone is going to say "accompanying policy." You can take poison on that. Crazy enough, these people are never in favour of freezing politicians' salaries, for example, while they can spare a lot more tens a month. I'll make it up to you. Let us at least not index our own incomes, as long as a majority of this Chamber does not want that either with parents' family allowances on the minimum subsistence level. No one can argue with that, right? That's the least of it. After all, who caused these problems in these implementing organisations? Those aren't those parents. They're politicians. And especially the parents with the lowest incomes are the hardest hit here. They're the ones who can't spare a tenner the least. Do you have any idea what your families are doing to those who are already in poverty? Where'd you get this? How do you come up with the idea that it is a good way to finance this plan, because we all know that there is a lot of overdue maintenance at the UWV in this way? The billions are being scattered around in the last ten years. The newspaper is full of how the possible new cabinet is going to be, I don't believe in a new cabinet myself; I do believe that something is going to borrow billions to run into overdue maintenance in the public services, and then you will go into injury time before that moment arrives, taking away another 100 million from families who need that money. That's mesjogge, isn't it? Was there any other way to cover this bill at all? What possibilities were those? Then what didn't end up? 'Cause I really can't imagine this was the best outcome I've ever had. 251,000 children grow up in poverty in this country. That's outrageous anyway. 251,000 children for whom sometimes no hot meal is on the table. Children who walk in old clothes, children who go to school without breakfast, children for whom a children's party is often a source of shame rather than a source of joy. There's no money for a treat or a present for who you're visiting. You're not gonna take the fall for the years of political neglect of executive services, are you? There are plenty of choices we can make. Of course, we can make the whole child benefit dependent on income and thus immediately remove 100 million from the highest incomes. Personally, that seems to me to be the most logical option, but it is a change that goes a little further than the law before us today. So a lot more practical: you can also stop the child benefit. That means that people with an income above two tonnes These are people who earn even more than Members of Parliament and earn even more than ministers lose their family allowances as a whole. I don't think they'll even notice. Is that an ideal option? Well, no, because the investment in ICT at the UWV is hopefully needed once. This means that after two, two and a half years these people get their child benefit back. Bit crazy maybe, but it's still less crazy than parents who don't have a penny to mop have to take another ten. The people in our proposal are not going to miss the money, but the people on the verge of the minimum standard of living cannot live without it. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I am curious to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State, but I assume that this is embraced with great joy by the parties present here. And what you do not want to happen to you, you do not do it to another. Of course, we will not support this law in this way, but we are not there yet. If the majority of the House decides not to index family allowances for several years, we are going to propose not to index at least during that period the income of Members of Parliament, State Secretary and Ministers. Because, yeah, that's usually just neatly indexed, whereas these people usually really deserve a lot less than we do. They don't have any money, we certainly don't. Finally. It affects this debate somewhat because of the need to invest in implementing services; we do not tell anything new here when we stress that people can sometimes get into incredible problems and bureaucratic hell because of a small error or administrative problem. At present, somewhere else in this building is shown only against the State in the presence of a number of victims of the surcharge scandal. I appreciate the fact that my colleagues are in this debate despite the fact that this documentary is highly commendable. Now I just got a report from a parent whose child was placed out of the house. That is a pretty traumatic and dramatic event anyway and often not something that happens in a stable home situation. If such a rigorous measure is needed, a little attention should be paid to the family. But what do you see now? Your own child has just been placed out of the house and within four weeks you have to report to the SVB (Social Insurance Bank) that your child no longer lives in the house. Otherwise, of course, you'll get another fine. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Of course, no one's thinking about that at all. I didn't know. I'm guessing that's what those parents are all about. Your head isn't in it. You do have bigger problems, but if the SVB eventually finds out that you forgot, you'll immediately pay the top prize: a fine of up to 50% of the amount. I got an email from a woman who eventually had to pay almost €4,000 fine for a total amount of €10,000. That doesn't seem reasonable to me. In fact, those are penalty rates that a bailiff can learn from. Meanwhile, the government knew perfectly well what was going on. He himself had taken the decision that the child had to be removed from home or at least proposed. Surely there has to be a way to prevent this kind of thing, to ensure that the data already known to the government gets to that other piece of government? So you should not make that dependent on whether a parent, who is already in a bad situation, is ultimately able to find the right point of contact. In this way, we believe that we can prevent your people from pouring back into a misery of towering recoveries, interest and fines. Unfortunately, we have seen far too much of that in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Gijs van Dijk, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party. You will indeed have to wait until the microphone is cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. €17. I don't think anyone in this room is ever awake from €17. €17 families will miss out on this law for years to come. That then runs towards €50. For many families, €17 is the difference between sintering class nights. €50 is a whole week of shopping for many families in poverty, if it is not less. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, one in ten children is now growing up in poverty. What does that mean? No dancing clothes to dance for her sport; that's Vera's story. Two hours walk to a museum because the bus is so expensive; the story of Imare. No books dare to borrow from the library, because if a book breaks, she has to pay a fine, or can't wear glasses because the repair is too expensive; the story of Mick's mother. Mr. Chairman. This law is a heartless austerity. These cuts are going to make the poorest families feel directly at the supermarket cash register. That is why I am quite simple: this proposal must be withdrawn. We have no alternative. We didn't look at any other cover. We believe that this proposal should be withdrawn at this time. We need to combat child poverty and not exacerbate it. Child benefit is a very important part of the income for many families. At a time when gas prices, groceries and your house are rising sharply, it is indispensable for many people. The Nibud also expresses its concerns. They indicate that this is more like a too far-reaching form of mental accounting than a constructive argument. In a very neat language, the Nibud rightly says that the coverage of an in itself logical and necessary investment is not right at all. But according to the Secretary of State, these children also have a real interest in extra money for the UWV, ICT consultants and additional officials at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I quote: 'It is also important that households with children benefit from the work on implementation agenda'. Let there be no misunderstanding: this investment is obviously needed, but what is this signal to 250,000 children in poverty? Thanks to more ICT consultants, can you go on a school trip now? It's really bullshit. If you think it can't be any crazier, the cabinet also decides to cut child allowances for single parents with a child who needs intensive care. So these are parents with a seriously ill or disabled child. We're talking about almost 10,000 kids. They are double-captured because they receive a double child benefit. That's really weird! What Secretary of State is here tonight? Monday's Secretary of State sent a letter in which he wrote that further efforts are needed to raise fewer children in poverty. Monday's Secretary of State also wrote that the impact of poverty on children is high. The Secretary of State is right, of course. Or is this the Secretary of State who ensures that families in poverty have no more but less to spend? He himself stated in reply to the Chamber that the number of children in poverty will grow through this law. No matter which secretary of state is here tonight, I have the same advice: withdraw this antisocial austerity. You're on your own. Make sure that fewer children are growing up in poverty instead of more. That is what we really need to do in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Baarle, on behalf of DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. This government has the crazy plan to cut hundreds of millions of euros on child benefit by stopping indexing. As a result, Dutch parents are financially caught by this government. Low-income parents are hit hard by this. Ascending the government wants to take away up to €44 per year from some parents. Sometimes it is €80, when we count on current inflation. That's not right. As far as DENK is concerned, this is antisocial, unacceptable and unnecessary. This bill must therefore be put in the trash as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. There is already so much child poverty in the Netherlands. Nowadays, one in ten children in the Netherlands lives in poverty. Those kids are having a really, really hard time. They have to go to school without breakfast, they can't buy sneakers and they don't have any money for a winter coat. We hear the poignant stories about child poverty in the country. This government wants to take these children up to some €44 by hitting their parents financially. Mr. Chairman. That €44 may not seem that much for this government and I understand that when you're in professional-K, with a generous salary and a service car with driver. But for someone who has a hard time making ends meet, he makes €44 a world of difference. It sometimes makes the difference between being able to buy fruit or not buying meat at dinner. The government indicates that it is not aware of the effect of this cut on child benefit on child poverty. But it's obvious what effect that's gonna have, isn't it? If your parents who are already having a hard time take an amount up to €44, you're going to collapse people further into poverty. Then you're gonna collapse those kids further into poverty. We shouldn't want that. Why does the government think it is acceptable to take a measure that increases income inequality even further in the Netherlands, makes the differences between rich and poor even greater and leaves those families that are already hard hit by rising healthcare costs, rising energy bills, rising fuel prices and overpriced messages even further behind? Does the government share the view that the effects of this bill will be even more severe because inflation is only rising and rising? As far as DENK is concerned, we should not do this, no way. Do not do this to the children in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The government indicates that the cut in family allowances is needed to improve the implementation organisations. DENK really doesn't understand why ailing parents and children have to bleed to finance the ICT and implementation projects of this State Secretary. Of course, we all understand that these implementing organisations need to be better and that we have not invested enough in them in recent times. After all, these organisations need an improvement, as the premium crime has taught us. But what is poignant is that the people who are the victims of the ill-functioning system now have to pay to improve that system. It's like you're letting the victims of the surcharge affair pay for improvements at the IRS. It's unfair, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. Why should ailing parents pay for your ICT projects, I ask the Secretary of State. It's crazy. Why haven't other alternatives been chosen? Have alternatives been considered at all? Or has this cabinet been staring blindly at catching ailing parents? Because the ATR, the Advisory Board on Control Pressure, is also wondering. They say that it is completely unclear whether an alternative, such as reducing implementation costs by clearing complex laws, has been considered at all. They also argue that there is no substantive relationship between child benefit and the Work on Implementation project. Can the Secretary of State explain this? Because there are so many less incriminating alternatives. Clean up complex legislation, as ATR says. Increase the load on large power. Increase the tax on profits from large companies. Raise the tax on millionaires. Get rid of candy subsidies for expats. Get rid of the villa grant. Raise the bank tax. Sharpen tax avoidance rules even further. There are so many incredibly good alternatives. Why does the cabinet choose to take Dutch parents and Dutch children financially hard? Why don't you choose to tax the big capital, which has also made millions and millions of euros in corona time, a little extra instead of parents? This is totally incomprehensible, but it is completely incomprehensible. This was not the only criticism of this bill that the ATR came up with. It is not clear what the cuts are for, nor what the ultimate objective of the proposal is for. Can the Secretary of State clarify this? What exactly is the amount of money this Secretary of State rakes in at the expense of parents spent on? What exactly is the deal with the proceeds? Is it true that within a shorter period than the duration of the bill, we are already recovering this amount? Is it true, then, that we have actually brought together the amount envisaged for the implementing organisations before that deadline of 2024? How big is that surplus? What exactly is that surplus spent on? And why is it being chosen to make more savings on family allowances than is necessary for the above-mentioned measures? In fact, the note on the report refers to a remnant that remains. For this reason, the DENK Group has tabled an amendment to at least delete the lower indexing in 2024. But if we can stop indexing earlier, of course I'd like to hear it from this Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. This government proposal affects parents in general, and lower-income parents hit it hard. In addition, parents with a child with an intensive need for care are severely affected. Because the additional amount they are entitled to is not indexed either. These parents have the difficult task of caring for a child with an intensive need for care and have to pay high care costs. Why wasn't they chosen to spare this group? Is it true that it is only a small amount of money, that we would not be able to pay for the non-indexation if we did not implement this measure? On this point, the DENK Group, together with the VVD, the CDA, D66, the Christian Union and the SGP, has tabled an amendment to accommodate these parents. Several groups had also asked questions about this in a report round, and we are pleased that together with these parties we have at least been able to do something for these parents. I look forward to the response of the Secretary of State to this amendment. Finally, Mr President. This bill simply cannot be explained. There are good alternatives. Parents in the Netherlands do not need to be financially caught and you cannot allow parents to fall back on their income at this difficult time. According to the ATR, this bill is not clear and it lacks logic. The ATR even goes so far as to say that this government should not table this bill. You just got a thick 0 from the ATR for this bill, a thick 0 from the ATR. Not filing, was their advice. That is why DENK's appeal towards this State Secretary is clear: withdraw this bill. Just pull it in and come up with another cover to improve the implementation organisations. Because do not do this to the Dutch children, do not do this to the Dutch parents and do not do this to the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you for your input. The next speaker will be Mrs Maatoug, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. When I go to the chair, we usually have a debate about something that we have differences of opinion about, there are ideals and sometimes practical considerations. But I just walked over here and I thought, "I just don't get it." I do not know what this debate is and I do not think the people at home understand what this debate is. I've got six minutes 40 on my clock. I think I can go on repeating, like all the other groups, that we are all in agreement and that we really do not want to cut child benefit, but I really feel like I'm in some kind of practical joke and someone is coming and saying: haha, guys, joke! April 1st! But it's not April 1st. Ladies and gentlemen before me have said it, so I am not going to repeat it, but we are living in a time when there is enough money, where we are talking about investing and in which we say on every file 'we are not doing this because the cabinet is demissionary' and 'no, we are not going to tackle these problems, honourable citizen, honourable voter'. And right now, we're making an exception to one file, and that file is child benefit. We say: you know what, we're going to cut back on that! I actually have one question for the Secretary of State, and that is: why? I sincerely ask why, because the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance cannot reach it with its head. I think we should have used this time to talk to people a few blocks away in The Hague and see the effects of this kind of policy, which are the effects of the fact that child benefit is not enough for families to live off, and certainly not for families with multiple children and how difficult it is to grow up as a child here in The Hague, in Groningen, in Assen, in Venlo and throughout the Netherlands. It cannot be explained that we are having this debate tonight, so I really hope that we will have a speaker in a moment... or that the outgoing Secretary of State intervenes and says: yes, this is a joke; I withdraw it. Because that is the position of GroenLinks. As far as we are concerned, we are going to stop this right now, as well as this debate, and we are not going to cut child benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you. The next speaker will be Mr De Jong, speaking on behalf of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. The service provided by public authorities such as UWV and the Social Insurance Bank has been a huge mess for many people for years. Every day we receive poignant stories from citizens who have problems in contact with public authorities without their fault. For example, they must fight for justice for years after mistakes of the agency, with all its consequences. And it's a lot of people. Recently it became clear that 30% of Dutch people are dealing with a build-up of problems. They often run into complicated regulations, complex procedures and closed doors. It makes sense that people are losing massive confidence in the government. That needs to be solved. Services need to be improved in a structural way. How can you be against that? But that must not, of course, mean that the people who suffer from the implementation problems will have to pay for solving them. And that's exactly what this cabinet is doing right now. Between 2022 and 2025, this cabinet cuts child benefit for EUR 400 million. EUR 400 million will be saved on family allowances to improve the service provided by UWV, for example. Even families with a child living at home who need intensive care have to count on less child benefit. That's downright antisocial. How can you, as a cabinet, say that you want to restore trust in the government and at the same time come up with a bill that does the right thing for the government to act unreliablely? It's crazy. Also, the justification of this bill is no good. The cabinet indicates that the hundreds of millions that are being cut are a balanced coverage, as child benefit remains constant. Alternatives to save families this financial discount have not even been considered. Apart from the fact that there is no relationship between investment in implementing organisations on the one hand and the absence of indexation of family allowances on the other, the weak argument also indicates that this cabinet has no idea what is going on in the real world. What is not constant is the price of fixed charges. The groceries are getting more expensive; we read it in the newspaper this morning. An average household has lost hundreds of euros extra to doing normal groceries. It's pretty much become an priceless luxury just to do your groceries normally. And then the energy bill: it also gets higher and higher. The rents are only getting higher and higher. With your family a day away by car has become virtually priceless due to the high petrol prices. As the economy grows, Dutch people can whistle for purchasing power gains. And in the meantime, everything's gonna be more expensive. Families are therefore in serious financial difficulties. Last Monday the Red Cross warned: beware, there are thousands of Dutch who have to choose between buying food and paying the bills. That's how basic it is. That's impossible, isn't it? Yet it happens in the Netherlands in 2021. In the Netherlands, we are dealing with 220,000 working poor people, people who do not deserve enough to be able to live normally and support a family in a normal way. The Nibud even indicates that there are 2.6 million households that are difficult to live by. Every tenner is needed. And then this cabinet comes up with a bill that makes people fall back on it. For us, that is unacceptable. We therefore call on the cabinet to withdraw the bill, simply index the child benefit and come up with a plan to get money elsewhere to improve public institutions. Mr. Chairman. Let me make one final comment. If I look around like that and start counting heads, I feel like the whole opposition is against. Even the SGP, which often participates in government policy, says: we are not going to do this. This means, therefore, that there is no justification for this legislative proposal in any way. I would like to hear from the coalition parties whether they are going to push this through or whether they are simply going to think clearly and say: we simply have to withdraw this antisocial plan. Are they going to move with us towards that Secretary of State to rescind the bill? I hope the SGP agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u11	I am the next speaker, so it will be clear, but the conclusion of the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u12	You can say it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u13	The PVV's conclusion is correct. I'd like to make one thing right. Unlike some other non-coalition parties, the SGP always weighs into each proposal. If it's a good proposal, we're in favour. If not, we're against it. If the government comes up with a good proposal, we will support it regularly. If, like this, it's horrible "a very bad joke," to recreate GroenLinks, then we're against it. So it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u14	Yeah, it's both true. That's great. It's good to hear that confirmation from the SGP. I often see something different in practice. In the case of requests for debate, I often see the SGP moving along with the coalition in order not to do things. Anyway, that's okay, that's no problem at all. On this bill, I see that the entire opposition is against it. Now it's about what the coalition's gonna do. Are they just gonna push this through with their power of a minimal majority? Or they say, "We just can't do this." Then the bill can be withdrawn and all these families will be spared misery. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you for your input. He had already been announced: Mr Stoffer will speak on behalf of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr President, I have the honour to speak on behalf of JA21 tonight. As we all know, the family is the cornerstone of society. But the cabinet keeps tripping over it. Again, now that the cabinet is looking for a bag of money and he thinks he found it with the families. The SGP thinks this is a downright bad plan. That the family is of value, our eastern neighbours see much sharper. For example, last year the German families received €300 and this year €150 extra child benefit to help them through the crisis. Here in the Netherlands, the cabinet decides to cut child benefit. You understand that the SGP thinks this is the opposite world. There is no reason why the law requires an increase in family allowances every six months. The cabinet wants to depart from this in 2022, 2023 and partly in 2024. A few tens less child benefit can have a major impact on some households. Families are getting a lot of trouble getting around already. This proposal only makes it more difficult for them. The baby clothes, school fees and daily groceries will not be cheaper in the coming years. In fact, life is becoming much more expensive, for example because of the energy costs that are rising. The AD wrote on Monday that families, low-income people and single mothers were mostly in trouble because of corona. Thousands of people have to choose between food or diapers every day. How does the Secretary of State look at the fact that especially lower-income families are declining significantly, even though they are already not broad? In addition, it is not the first time that families have been seen as children. In 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2020, child benefit was also not increased. Apparently, this is an easy austerity route. Why can't these families just rely on a reliable government instead of this yo-yo policy? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the UWV and the SVB must be able to do their job properly. We saw the importance of a well-functioning implementation in the childcare allowance affair, which we debated last night. However, we must beware of the reflex that a better government would also mean a larger government. To improve the functioning of the implementation organisation, it does not help to cut down on families with children. Tell me for yourself: what can the parent do about the problem with the UWV? The cabinet acknowledges that there is no substantive relationship, but would like to pursue this plan. The SGP considers that an incomprehensible choice. For this reason, the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review is very critical of the present legislative proposal. It suggests the idea of cutting back on legislation and regulations that are very complex in implementation. Operation Rules So Spare. The report Work on implementation of ABDTOPConsult contains excellent suggestions for this. That seems to be a much better route to the SGP. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore what he will do with this. Does he also think that such scraping should always be considered first, rather than letting citizens, in this case parents and children, take the blame for this? And then the parents of children living at home with an intensive need for care. These parents are entitled to double child benefit. They are therefore hit twice as hard by this proposal, even though it is already a vulnerable group. How does the Secretary of State view this? We just shouldn't want that, right? In any case, the SGP believes that this group deserves our support. This certainly also applies to single or single-earning parents with children living at home with a heavy need for care. They normally receive an additional amount on top of family allowances. The SGP already asked questions about this, because we should not leave this group in the cold. It is therefore very good that there is an amendment by Mr Van Baarle and many colleagues sitting in the Chamber to increase the additional amount of family allowances for single or self-employed people in the coming years. I hope for a warm heart of all colleagues for this group of children and parents. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Children should not be blamed for poorly functioning implementation organisations. Taking money away from families to solve organizational problems at the UWV and the SVB is the wrong turn as far as we are concerned. That is why we call on the Cabinet to increase family allowances in the coming years. The problems of implementing organisations do not require a bag of money, but the removal of rules and the cutting of complexity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you for your input. The next speaker from the Chamber will be Mrs Tielen, who will speak on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. All parents of children under 18 years of age in the Netherlands receive money in their bank account once a quarter from the Social Insurance Bank. We call that child support. It has existed since January 1941, with the intention of supporting all parents in raising and feeding their children. In those 80 years, a great deal has happened with child benefit and the law on child benefit. For example, the amounts are higher when your child first goes to elementary school and then goes to high school, because then, logically enough, there are higher costs for, for example, school material. At the initiative of the VVD, the Chamber recently ensured that parents with children under 18 years of age were also granted child benefit. When the study advance system was introduced, there was a gap that has now been closed. In 2016 and 2019, the amount of child benefit increased by almost 10%. In short, the child benefit law is old, but it is also very vital. It's like my dad, who's 80 years old, by the way. The amount from €60 to €80 per month per child is a welcome and sometimes much-needed supplement to the household wallet or the savings account for the study later. Today we are discussing a bill to freeze the indexation and the amount that parents will get next year, clicking on the amount they will get this year. I didn't think it was necessary to make explicit why, but when I hear the previous speakers, that turns out to be the case and so I do. This bill is not an objective or policy priority. It is a result of as many as two other important objectives that we have decided on as a Chamber. The first is the extension of paid parental leave, the second is the further improvement of implementation at UWV and SVB. Like I said, those are two pretty good causes. My group can therefore support the legislative proposal, although I still have a number of concerns and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u19	Well, I'm gonna have to stop you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u20	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr. De Jong, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u22	It's unbelievable. You have just heard: the entire opposition is against it. Why is the opposition against it? Because it's downright antisocial to take care of Dutch families, no matter how beautiful it is, by taking away part of their child benefit, even from families whose children need care. Why do you do that? Why are you so antisocial about supporting this when you see that the entire opposition is against it? Because if you are in favour, then the CDA is in favour and then D66 is in favour, so the whole cabal is in favour and then it just gets pushed through again. Why do you do that to Dutch families?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u23	I can answer that for a very long time, and I'm just gonna try that. Mr De Jong says that 400 million is being cut. That's in a four-year period. On the other hand, in the past cabinet period, nearly 1 billion more has been spent on families, not only on family allowances, but also on the additional schemes, specifically aimed at children growing up in poor families, families with low incomes, and so on. You can pull that off, and you can, but I'd like to put something on the other side. On the other hand, it is part of a larger package. I do not know by heart whether the PVV voted for it, but it is part of a larger package that includes paid parental leave. That is partly aimed at families. The fact that we are looking at the coverage, for part of the child benefit, is not such a crazy idea at all. What I can very well follow, Mr De Jong, is that it is not going to be easier for a lot of families in the future. That's true. But child benefit is not specifically aimed at poverty. We have other things for that, like the child-related budget and the alo-head. These are all regulations in which a lot of extra money has been invested over the past few years and in which, in my opinion, we need to find the solutions, as well as in a number of other things, for example the energy bill that I have heard a lot about over the last few weeks. So let's not look at it in isolation, and then say very big words about it, but just look at it in relation to other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u24	Very big words have been said, but you take the people, the families hard. You'd like to put something on the other side of that, but I'd like to do that for a while. In recent years, they have not improved on purchasing power. And if it was, it was on paper and it was gone within a minute when the cabinet presented it. The groceries are getting very expensive. That was in the paper this morning. It's pretty much priceless to run errands. Gas prices are rising. The rents have become priceless. The cost of care has become priceless. The power bill's going up. Often families can't afford that anymore. I know how many families are struggling to make ends meet at the end of the month. And then you say that it is understandable that EUR 400 million is being cut, because that is what it is. Why don't you just tell this Secretary of State: I think it's a very good idea that we're improving these implementation organisations, but get that money from somewhere else? No alternatives have even been investigated. Again, why does the VVD say so harshly, so cold and so cold to those families that it is big words that these parties bring forward here, while they stand up for those same families? Why do you do that and why don't you just take your humanity with you to the Secretary of State and not say: good that you want to improve those implementing organisations, but not at the expense of those families?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u25	As I have just said, it is a broader package and it is also related to paid parental leave, which we in the Chamber have decided to do because we think it is important. Things must be of length or width. We're all looking at the total budget. Last week there were Financial Reviews and the weeks before that Political Reviews. We are going to discuss the Social Affairs and Employment budget with each other one of these weeks. All these things together are about purchasing power. I find it difficult to put an element of this on everything, because imagine me saying to the Secretary of State "don't do it." We can, but then we haven't solved all the problems you mention in one go. So you can't just put one and the other in one bowl and say: that's why it's coming and that's why you're antisocial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u26	Rounding and shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u27	I'll finish, but briefly. There is no correlation between cuts in child benefit and implementation problems at UWV. That has nothing to do with each other. You take the money from that child support to put it in the UWV. That's downright antisocial. I would really recommend you take a look back, because you are standing here so cold and chilly just to list a list. You're protecting the Secretary of State because it's cabinet policy, but it's with those who get hit. I don't think you have any idea what it's like to have a tenner less. In some cases it's even about €20 or €40 less and that's just hard money. That's a hell of a lot of money! Then you can say here as a Member of Parliament 'well, those are tough and big words' and 'it is EUR 400 million, but it has to be long or wide-ranging', but you take families with it. You show that the VVD doesn't care about those families and you should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u29	It hurts to see that, but that is how people feel at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman, I think we have an agreement here that we will speak through you in this Chamber. I'm constantly being addressed directly to the man here, just like the Secretary of State. Mr. De Jong has no idea whether or not I know what a tenner is more or less. I find it, even for the people who look at home, really fake! This is how contradictions are created. It's a fake to pretend you don't know it all when you're standing here with a decent package on. If we have the responsibility to represent all interests in the Netherlands, not just those of one type of person or another type of person, but all interests in the Netherlands, with its hundred and fifty, then we should not do it this way. I don't think that's gonna help anyone in the country. I just wanted to say that and I hope we... Mr. De Jong comes up with all kinds of arguments, and in part he's right about that. That's what I said myself. It's hard for a lot of people to see how gas prices go. People do not dare to turn on the heat yet, while the east wind is blowing and it is not nice. That is true, but this child benefit is not just intended to help poor families. The child benefit is available for everyone in the Netherlands to support the upbringing. The proposal is not to index next year. You can say, "Those tens don't matter." But I'm not saying that, and you haven't heard me say that either, even though Mr. Kwint thought it necessary to announce that all those parties who are before this are pretending not to. That's not the point. The point is that we stand together for laws and policies, and we need money for that, and we need to bring that money together. One of the laws for which this money was included in the package is paid parental leave. I don't think it's so crazy that we're linking that to each other. It is annoying that we passed that law six months ago, because it is indeed now such an isolated programme. But I do dare stand here with dry eyes to defend this bill, because I think it is acceptable, given the total package of all the things we are doing. Furthermore, I think it is important that we also make our implementing organisations capable of carrying out the things we have agreed on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u31	One in ten children in the Netherlands grows up in poverty. This government has a plan to cut child benefit, which sometimes means that the parents of those children miss almost €50. €50! Does Mrs Tielen of the VVD realize that support for this will increase the number of children who go to school without breakfast? Does Mrs Tielen van de VVD realize that the number of children in the Netherlands who cannot buy a winter coat will increase if you support this government's plan to take away the parents of those children up to €50? Can you really wear that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u32	You too must speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u33	We're not gonna take it away, but we're gonna click on an amount. I am not taking this off, because I do see that prices are rising. But we're not taking it away. That, I think, is a false representation of things. Or that directly leads to more children in poverty? I hope not. This is not the only plan of this Secretary of State. We take it out and say: this is the only plan of this government. But it's not. In recent years, as I have just said, there has been an enormous amount of extra money invested in the child-related budget, which is specifically aimed at families at the bottom and in the middle groups of our society. Again, in the overall package, I think this is justified, because we also have so many other things to do with each other. In view of the other reception arrangements we have and the poverty policy that we have, I am convinced that we do not need to send additional children out into the streets without a winter coat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u34	In my opinion, this government has admitted in its response that this proposal is likely to increase child poverty. It also seems obvious to me when we see what is happening in the Netherlands. We see that the energy bill for families has sometimes doubled. We see the prices of food. I'll just mention a list: cleaning supplies are 6.1% more expensive than last year, bread is 3.4% more expensive and personal care equipment is 7% more expensive than last year. If the VVD supports a government proposal not to allow child benefit to grow with inflation, then is it logical that these children will end up in poverty? If you take away what these families would normally get, those families will go backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u35	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u36	So more kids go to school without breakfast. My question to the VVD is as follows. It seems clear to me that this will lead to more poverty. Why are you wearing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u37	I think Mr. Van Baarle and I just have a different expectation of what's happening. In addition, I think it is very important to invest more in the income support measures that exist and which I have just mentioned. It is also important to ensure that salaries rise, that people get jobs, that people get out of welfare. I'd like to focus more on that. I hope that we will be able to discuss this at the end of next month in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u38	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yeah, rounding it up. Mrs Tielen, on behalf of the VVD, stressed the importance of investing in income support measures. By supporting this proposal, you are doing exactly the opposite, namely something people are supposed to get from these people in the future. It's the same thing every time at the VVD: yes, we do so much; we take extra measures. But it's clip-and-ready where that leads under the line. The Nibud has made a calculation of how people with the lowest incomes in the Netherlands are doing. What happened at Prince's Day? Those people, that single mom and that single dad, they just went down a ten a month. A tenner a month! So what the hell is "helping this government's plans"? They're not helping at all. You're making it worse. My question is, why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u40	I can give you the same answer one more time and Mr. Van Baarle calls it a wiggle. I'm sorry to hear that. Anyway, I think this is acceptable in the overall package that there is. I'm not partying here either, like: great fun, we're busy again. But in the overall package, including what we want to achieve with it, I think it is acceptable. In addition, I hear everyone who has just spoken, high tone and sometimes with harsh words but they are absolutely right: we have to make sure that people can just live normally, have a roof over their head, feed their children, buy a winter coat when it gets cold, turn on the heating without great fear of bailiffs. All agree, but I don't think that's supposed to be in this bill. I think that is part of all the other measures I have just referred to. Let's find it there. And I think that Princess's Day has said quite a few things about this, for example about energy prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mrs Tielen said in her contribution that this bill is not an end in itself for the VVD. But I don't think that's entirely true. Because at the same time the VVD is in a formation. I took the credit card from the VVD, which the election program is attached to. What do I see there? It cuts 400 million on family allowances and 200 million on the child-related budget. So I hear a lot of warm words about not letting go of the children, but the VVD is now in a formation where 600 million is being cut back on the children who need it so badly. Then I wonder: where, according to Mrs Tielen, is the real VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u42	I think we're talking about this bill here. That's not part of the election program. We will have to debate this later. By the way, Mr. Gijs van Dijk and the PvdA also have very interesting accounts in their election program. For the VVD, it's important that people who just work can just live with their kids, like I said. That they can rent or buy a house, that they can keep it warm, that they can nicely decorate it, I would almost say, that they can send their children to school on a bike, with books. As far as we are concerned, that is just living and that is what we stand for. So we want to make sure that there is work that people have enough left over at the end of the month, that as a government we can give a little support if there are major setbacks, look at corona, look at the developments in the energy price, and that every family in the Netherlands that has children gets child benefit. That sort of thing. Very ordinary things for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u43	Very common things for ordinary people, but much less. Because making 400 million structural cuts in child support is a big deal, but that's what the VVD does. 200 million savings on the child-related budget: that's what the VVD does. This is, I think, a taste of what we're going to see at the start of a next right VVD cabinet. That's what I think it's about. And I think Mrs Tielen should be honest about that. This is what the VVD wants at least, but she wants to go much further. Then we can say warm words about fewer children in poverty, but that is not going to happen if it is up to the VVD. Mrs Tielen just spoke to me about "big words." They're not because I want to use it politically. They're because I'm really worried about so many families that are really in the shit right now. I think that a subsequent cabinet, even if we are not part of it, will do something about that. But then I look at the program of the VVD: there is nothing in it to invest children in poverty! Nothing at all. In fact, 600 million savings on children who need it so badly. So let's talk about the honest story. Then it just becomes a restart and a hard right VVD policy. And yes, that makes me angry. Of course you are committed to everything that is beautiful, but I think you should be honest. How can a $600 million cut on children who need it so badly equal the story you're telling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u44	That is a good question from Mr Van Dijk. I see the anger and I get it. I get it, too. But I myself am getting a little angry, because Mr Van Dijk is also questioning my words. I would like to refer to the document 'I'm sorry to say that we put together with D66 this summer. There is certainly something in it about children in poverty. If you do, I think you can have a little more confidence that what I am saying here is also genuinely coming from my heart and that I stand before it and stand in front of it, even though there is a storm coming. We will certainly have the debate on this in the future, on the SZW budget and, should we get out of it, on the plans of the next cabinet. Fine. For ordinary people it should just be possible to live an ordinary life when you work. Then we will make sure that you get a little push in order to be able to move forward again if it does not succeed in the event of setbacks. You may ask that of me, and you may continue to address me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u45	Now it's getting really weird. Mr Van Dijk rightly quotes from the VVD's electoral programme. It says negative 600 million. And what does Mrs Tielen say, who is here on behalf of the VVD and who said as a first reaction that she is not here to talk about the VVD's election programme? It says: well, you should not look at that election programme; you should look at what we achieved in the summer as a fictitious intermediate document with D66. And if you see what my party has negotiated with D66, I'm quite satisfied with that. That doesn't make any sense, does it? You say, "Look at the total package." The whole formation, whatever. We'll hear about it. I want to look back at the total package. The fact is that 251,000 children are still living in poverty, that nothing has been reduced in recent years. The number of drop-outs of children, young people in homelessness; it hasn't helped anything. All the measures you mention have not led to those numbers falling. Why do you think this particular discount is not going to hit this group just as hard after all? It will end up in poverty with that group of young people, won't it? There's no other way, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u46	As I said, child benefit is not a poverty scheme. The child benefit is for everyone. We've had how much in the last few years? In fact, 900 million have been spent on children's schemes, on children's budgets, all to support families in poverty with children. So if we're gonna talk about that, we're gonna have to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u47	Then I have one more idea. Then we'll abolish child benefit over two tons. Then we can make sure the money goes to the other families. Then we know for sure that it doesn't hit children in poverty any more. We passed that on nicely with the Ministry. If you're above two tons, €200,000 a year, taking out child benefit for two and a half years, you've got exactly this amount. Then you can get the UWV out of the fire and then you can make sure families don't get hit. That's what you do for two and a half years. I'm guessing those parents in those two and a half years don't even realize that the money doesn't come into their accounts. Then why don't we just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u48	I heard your speech on this and I saw your amendment come in. That removes the whole idea of child support. Well, I'm sorry about that. If you have a child, you will receive a quarterly amount from the government in the Netherlands to support the education. It is actually a sign that, as a society, we like to see new generations come, because it has a future, build a future and ensure that people still live there for old age. That's the intention of child support. If it does not go well because you have a very low income, fall very much back in income, get into welfare or whatever, then we all have different arrangements for that. Then I'd like to look at that if that's what it takes. Now we are talking about child benefit in a larger package of measures. Again, I don't think it's the most fun and certainly not the most beautiful bill I've seen coming through the last four years. I am not happy here either, but I think it is acceptable in the overall picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u49	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u50	Those arrangements are there to help people, aren't they? At the moment when we find that we can amend a regulation, where we only ask for something from people who earn more than two tonnes a year, you cannot call on: yes, but that is against the spirit of the regulation. Eventually, it's about helping people, isn't it? Isn't it about keeping the spirit of an arrangement 80 years ago? We're discussing a bill today. That is the perfect time to change a regulation. You're gonna let those people go for that arrangement, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u51	We just don't agree on that. I'm just looking at it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u52	If you don't mind, I'd like to be left. Mrs. Tielen knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u53	For me on the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u54	My question to Mrs Tielen of the VVD is as follows. I've heard the word "total package" a few times. The package is part of a package. I don't know that package. I would ask you, Mr President, to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u55	In April, I say memorized, we looked at the expansion of paid parental leave. There was a large amount of money involved that parents, mostly fathers, could take longer leave. That's what this was all about. We have said: that costs a lot of money, that we pay partly out of.I dare not put it so out of my mind. several parts, among other things not indexing the child benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u56	That was my first debate. I remember it pretty well. My memory isn't very good, but luckily here are heroes of stenography. I have, as I always do in legislation and in all debates, like my colleagues, taken the Acts for a moment, because I thought: perhaps I remember that wrong. I went to look at those expenses and I went to look at the cover. The child benefit is not included. That's not in the bill. We didn't talk about it when we were dealing with it, and we couldn't have talked about it either, because it wasn't in the legal text. So again my question to the colleague of the VVD: how could I have known that total package as MP of the opposition and of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u57	That's a good question, but I don't know. In my head, it's like this. I don't have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u58	Finalizing, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u59	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Maybe in second term. Of course, we don't usually do that as colleagues. After all, I do like to know, in addition to the big words, how to weigh this up. I just brought it up myself in my own input. We choose to declare everything controversial and not to make a new policy. This wasn't in the law the way we treated it back then. We have not been able to weigh that up when we voted in favour of that law on parental leave, which GroenLinks thinks is a very good idea. That is why I do not think this debate is appropriate. I hope it is not true, so I am curious to hear Mrs Tielen's memory in the second term, as if you are defending a very bad political deal here, and you are doing so with extreme caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mrs Maatoug is asking for an answer. As I say, I stand for what I say. I can see if I can give a better answer to that in the second term, if she wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u61	Then Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u62	Thank you. Over 2 million people voted for the VVD and that really isn't just people with a big wallet. There are also people who rely on the VVD, who rely on Rutte as a political leader, as Prime Minister, who trust that the country is stable. Those two million people are counting on the VVD. There are real people in there who just don't have anything to spend. When I hear Mrs Tielen say 'we are not making it any easier' or 'yes, that energy bill I have heard a lot about', I wonder how far the roots of the VVD as a party, not that of Mrs Tielen personally, reach into society. In the election campaign we see neighborhood after neighborhood people from the VVD walking around to win votes and eventually it comes to something essential, the child benefit in this case, and then the story is actually quite different. Do you yourself think that the VVD really has enough feeling here are really given clear examples to at least reconsider this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u63	The first V of VVD you said already beautifully is the V of folk party. I think Mrs Van der Plas describes very nicely as I see it in the conversations I have with people and in the visits we make in the country, but also indeed in the figures of the polls and the elections: everywhere in the Netherlands there are people who rely on the VVD. Mrs van der Plas said this beautifully: people in beautiful neighborhoods with thirty-six houses and people in neighborhoods where there are not very well-maintained social housing everywhere. Mrs van der Plas asks whether my or our roots reach far enough, and I can say yes to that wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u64	And if that is the case, how does the group unite with such an unfortunate bill as it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u65	Because you can never see it in isolation, all alone. It's about a bigger picture. We have a treasury of 300 billion, I think. As I said, over the past few weeks we have discussed this in detail: how do we get money from somewhere to put it in and how do we then distribute the money we spend? There's a bottom in that treasure chest. It's not very empty. I always imagine that it is somewhere in the basement of the Ministry of Finance, but I do not think it is. So we weigh everything in its entirety. The same applies to the legislative proposal that is now before us. So this is about fixing the amount of family allowances for the coming year, for the next two years. I think it is acceptable in the overall light of the things we are doing, especially when you look at the past period, in which 900 million extra has been spent on child-related schemes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u66	Finalizing, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u67	Mrs Tielen says: I think it is acceptable. That doesn't sound very convincing to me. I have the feeling that Mrs Tielen thinks in her heart of this 'this is really not good what we are doing here', but that she represents the group position here. That is a credit to her at the moment, but I really wonder if the entire VVD group, including Mrs Tielen, can say here with her hand on her heart 'this is a good plan'. Because in "acceptable" sounds to me something like "yes... we have to do something." I would like to ask Mrs Tielen and the VVD Group to reconsider it very carefully, because this is indeed going to affect tens of thousands of families, if not hundreds of thousands of families. Because it's not like they're gonna use the child support to do something fun with the kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u68	All right, your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u69	They have to buy food, they have to pay the energy bill and they have to choose from: get my child a hot shower today, or not at all or a cold shower. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u70	That's what I said earlier. This is much needed for some of the families. But for a very large part of those families, or almost all of those families, there are also other arrangements. We're not touching that. In fact, in recent years we have only put more into that. I say "acceptable." I've told you twice or three times that this isn't the best bill. It's always nicer, very honest, to give away money. It's always nicer to say "you're getting better, people" or "you need to pay less." That's right. But I think it's acceptable in relation to what we need it for, in relation to the total of child packages, yes. I think it's good to explain and I stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u71	Until Mrs Tielen spoke, I did not have the impression that this was in a very broad package. So I took another look at that Law Pays Parental Leave. JA21 and the SGP voted against it; the rest did not. So yes, the PVV supported the cabinet there. Stop it, Mr. De Jong, because that's how you see it: one time you do it, the other time we do it. But that's not the point. I also like the fact that Mrs Tielen says that this is not the best bill to defend. But I also understand very well that if you want something, and if you want something, there is, of course, something to say that we want to strengthen those implementing services, especially in the field of ICT; that is very much necessary, that is something that has to be paid for. We agree. I would therefore like to make a suggestion. I just did that in my contribution. The Advisory Board on Control Pressure, the ATR, says that we don't like this either, but the alternative might be to clean up complex legislation that is not actually feasible. So just clean up the rules; I think that should fit the VVD. We can use this as cover to provide the implementing power of the implementation services. Is it for Mrs. Tielen, for the VVD to consider putting that in and putting the picture together? Then it gets paid, it's covered, too, and it's not an open check. I think that would also offer more comfort for the VVD and Mrs Tielen, because she doesn't like it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u72	The honest answer is that I also thought: ha, tidy up! I'll have a bit of that in my speech, which I'll need a few more minutes for. Cleaning up laws seems like a good idea anyway. So I'm going to go into that in a moment. Only the Advisory Board review control pressure has not calculated or not figured out... I have not yet found the comfort that Mr. Stoffer is trying to offer in that opinion of the Advisory Board review control pressure. That makes it a bit difficult again, because I would very much like to continue improving the implementation. So that. But I'll be right back on clearing up laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u73	Good. I can't wait to see what comes next. My question here is whether Mrs Tielen would perhaps also like to put the question to the Cabinet, to the Secretary of State, or to explain to what extent that would be an option. If a reasonable answer comes out, then maybe we don't have to hit those families, but we could do it so nicely. In that case, as a Chamber, we are once again so far away that we have found each other in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you. Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr Stoffer asked the question, so it is already on the list. I'll see what I'll add myself in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u76	And you will continue your speech with a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u77	If it's all right with you, yes, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on. I have already said that we support the bill, but I also have some concerns and questions. They concern family allowances for parents with a child in need of care, the so-called AKW-plus, the use of the funds in the implementing organisations, the advice of the Advisory College on control pressure and the proceeds. First of all, I have a question about parents with a caring child. As a number of speakers have already said, these parents receive child benefit for a reason. Mr Van Baarle felt the same way. He had already made an amendment to that. I would like to endorse his call for these parents to be excluded from indexing per amendment. That is a double denial, so let me put it another way: I would like to join in his call to index the child benefit for these parents. My name is therefore Mr Van Baarle already said it under the amended amendment. The VVD believes that, following the conclusions of the Klem report between desk and policy and the Work on Implementation programme, we invest sufficiently in the implementation organisations, or more investment, you might say. In the note on the report, I do read how the funds are to be distributed between the implementing organisations but not to what they are to be used. Now I really do not need every euro to be labelled, traced and accounted for, but also in the light of the Compatability Act, I ask whether the Secretary of State can undertake that the regular accountability reports, to which reference is made, explicitly address what this additional investment is doing for the organisations, but actually especially for the people who depend on these organisations, the people in the country. I'd like a commitment. Speaking of implementation, the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review gives the Chamber good advice. At least I thought it was a good advice and so did Mr. Stoffer. That was: map out whether the implementation costs can be reduced by clearing up laws. The cabinet says that it is best to clean up, but with the aim of increasing legal certainty, awareness and simplicity for the citizens or 'the people in the country', which I always think sounds better. As I said to Mr Stoffer, I would like to clear up legislation. The cabinet refers in the note following the report to the bottlenecks letters of UWV and SVB. Soon the SZW committee will also organise a round table on these bottlenecks letters. I hope that, in addition to colleagues here, I can also find the Secretary of State on our side in order to get to work swiftly on clearing up laws. Partly on behalf of Mr. Stoffer, I'm asking if that could help. How does the Secretary of State see that in the light of this bill? Finally. I understood from colleagues in the media that the non-indexation of inflation should not result in excessive savings. Mr Omtzigt asked written questions about this, which I saw the answers to this afternoon. I agree. We have said enough about this bill, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can promise that there will indeed be no unnecessary increase in the amount of money that we have now thought of as necessary. If so, how can he ensure that it can be removed in a simple and purposeful way? I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u80	The next speaker from the cabinet will be Mrs. Van der Plas on behalf of... did I say "government"? Oh, "of the Cabinet." Well, look. That's a quick promotion, but I meant, of course, from the side of the Chamber. It's not a promotion. That's true. No, it's a step back. Mrs Van der Plas on behalf of BBB, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mr President, inhabitants of the Netherlands and people in the gallery. The government is there for the citizen, not the other way around. In my short time as a Member of Parliament, I have already been able to participate in many debates where this goes wrong: Groningen, the supplement scandal and now again the non-indexation of child benefit. It is a clear example of what we do not want, because in this case much of the money goes to bureaucracy rather than to the citizens. And because the bureaucratic strongholds of the government need to be improved, the hard-working citizens, in this case the families, can pay for this. The citizen as a milk cow and as a debris cleaner; I think it is all crooked and so do the citizens, we notice in all the reactions we get every day. What do I find crooked? We spend billions, for example, to create wish nature, which may have never been here but could possibly come here with investments of many millions. We spend billions on QR codes and a test society because we've cut back on care. We spend billions on climate policy, while many people are already unable to pay for the energy transition. We are closing coal power stations here, while China is working on it. We spend billions in the Netherlands on the self-created multi-headed monster called bureaucracy, while there is increasing poverty. One in six to seven children goes out without breakfast. Over half a million people live in poverty. One in five people have payment problems. One million people are below the low wage threshold, of which 398,000 have been in succession for four years. 251,000 children live in a family below the low wage limit. Mr Kwint has just said the same thing. Over 160,000 people depend on the food bank. With rising food prices, towering energy prices and petrol prices going through the roof, many more families are likely to be added to this. Mr. Chairman. There are already families who can't afford the energy bill this winter. I just heard in a technical briefing that this year, according to TNO, 170,000 families will be added with an energy poverty problem, especially in the large and medium-sized cities, and especially in the welfare sector. All this is mainly at the expense of the well-being of many children. Especially they are in the cold. Parents are already facing diabolical dilemmas. Is the heating going up a degree or are we buying food that is going to be significantly more expensive as a result of the energy crisis? Are we taking a hot shower today, a cold shower or no shower at all? Those are the choices we make as happy few, with an income of €117,000 a year and as far as I am concerned, the Netherlands should know best not to make a net wage of €7.601,32 here in the Chamber. But those choices are the hardest reality in many families. Are we really gonna do this? Not as far as BBB goes. Mr. Chairman. Can the Secretary of State explain what other options have been considered to find cover for these costs? And what made it decisive to choose to obtain part of the coverage from the child benefit? The Netherlands is becoming less and less a social country but a country for the elite, the happy few, as I have just mentioned. As long as you say "climate," the money's gonna piss off the plinths. In the meantime, the ordinary citizen sees that there are hardly any wage increases, that pensions are not indexed and that family allowances are now frozen. The amount of family allowances is not indexed in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2020. On the other hand, the same child benefit was increased in 2016, 2017 and 2019. As a result, the amount in 2021 is higher than it would have been if only indexed in the last 10 years. But what did that non-indexation and then increase ultimately bring to the bottom of the line? And how does the Secretary of State view this system in the light of providing certainty? BBB wants a long-term policy and not the constant scaling-up and scaling-down of facilities. This costs a lot of money, which can be saved and spent better where it is intended. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that long-term security, especially in the area of social security, should be guaranteed? Or do we drop the people in the Netherlands and let them go? President and inhabitants of the Netherlands, finally. It is clear that it is time for common sense. Stop magicalizing citizens' money and stop screening indexes based on a paper reality. Make sure that the basis is in order and that lower-income citizens receive less burden and clear and predictable amounts for child benefit, for example. And more importantly, say no to this ridiculous bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u82	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. She will speak on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be very honest: it has never been my dream to justify the non-indexation of child benefit here today. However, I believe that this is a logical legislative proposal in the broader package of measures and policies introduced in the previous government period. What exactly is the purpose of the bill? Firstly, it is possible, inter alia, to introduce paid parental leave for both parents. Yesterday, the First Chamber agreed to this proposal. That is an important step. Parents get more room to work less in their child's first year of life and to be home on paid leave to take care of their child. It ensures a proportionate distribution of tasks and, not insignificantly, strengthens the bond between parent and child. Secondly, we are making a substantial investment of 100 million euros in the UWV, the SVB and in BKWI. We in the Chamber have often said in the supplementing affair that public services must be fundamentally destroyed. We only achieve this by investing in our implementation organisations. With this money we work on the customization and craftsmanship that are desperately needed to prevent terrible dramas. I believe it is my duty as a Member of Parliament to stand up for ensuring and strengthening the quality of our implementation even in situations where it is less politically attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u84	I can feel a second round of interruptions coming. I would, however, ask Members to intervene shorter and more concisely and actually do it in two. Mr. De Jong, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u85	The honourable Member states that it has never been her dream to defend the non-indexation of family allowances here. You don't have to. It's a 400 million euro cut. You can say today: we are not going to do it. You are in the cabinet, at least your party is a cabinet party, a coalition party. So you're not gonna do that either?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u86	I just mentioned it: it's not my dream to have to justify it here today, but there are other points below which I'm really very happy. Yesterday, parental leave was taken in the First Chamber. All parties agreed to that, so did your party. So as far as I'm concerned, that's a very good step. But it has to be paid. We'll talk about that tonight. It's a complete package and this is one part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u87	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u88	Well, not finalizing at all. It is, of course, a political trick to talk about a package. That's a debate technique. Of course, it is up to everyone to decide whether they are applying it. A package won't do them any good at home. They're wondering how they're gonna pay their bills at the end of the month. This is a cut of EUR 400 million, which you say makes sense because we need to improve implementation organisations. If you are now putting forward a proposal to improve the implementation organisations, no one is opposed to it. But you're taking the money away from Dutch families. If you maintain that, while the entire opposition says we shouldn't... Then you can point to the First Chamber. By the way, he's gonna say they're not gonna take this. They're not gonna take this; that's not gonna happen. Yet I don't know how many people, Dutch families, are watching this right now. They think it's gonna happen to me anyway. Spare them all that shit. Tell the Secretary of State to come up with another cover. If you don't, all those fine words that we don't have to create dramas are empty words, because you take families hard and hard. Again, my question is: why do you not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u89	If I get a long interruption, of course you will get a longer answer. You understand that from me. Firstly, I would like to refer to the words of BBB's colleague...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u90	Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u91	Yes, Mrs. Van der Plas. I'm sorry, I don't have much of a debate with Mrs. Van der Plas. I'd like to refer to her words. She just mentioned a number of years. I don't know if you got that, too. I understand you did, but I don't know if you heard. In fact, it called for a stop to indexation and for an additional budget to be drawn up at the same time. If we had only indexed over the past few years, we would be 21 euros higher on balance. She did the math. I did the math, too. The proposal is to sit a little lower. This is a math. I'd like to have that named anyway. You say 'you can do it all differently' and 'the families are all affected by this'. I find it regrettable that you always do not mention that we have invested in recent years. Over the past period, 250 million have gone to family allowances. We have already talked about the child-related budget for the third child in a family. You say now: all families are so touched. I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u92	Really rounding up, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u93	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm rounding up. So this is weird. So you didn't read the paper this morning. It just says that the messages become priceless. Families go down hundreds of euros when they go shopping. The energy bill's gone up. The rents have gone up. People can't afford their care anymore. Those are Dutch families. Then you can blame me for using so-called big words here when I talk about families, but here I am talking about families. You show that your party is completely independent, that your party is very probably not involved with those people. Otherwise, you would not be defending that proposal. Then you would say: this is not a dream, this is a nightmare and I will stop. I would advise you not to blame the Chamber for using so-called big words when it is up to those people. They can't make it financially strong anymore, and it's a lot of families. I find it very disappointing that the VVD, together with D66 and all the other coalition parties, are going to push this through and leave families in the lurch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u94	I'm told now that I'd be world weird, that my party is world weird, that I'm far from people and that I don't talk to anyone. I am accused of blaming someone else here, but I would like to point out that my colleague is doing exactly the same thing to me. It would be a pleasure for him if he had looked into me, if he knew where I came from and where I grew up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u95	Don't yell in the hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u96	I'm fine with you talking through it, because then I'll just look at the next interruption. But I would like to point out that you blame me without you knowing who I am. You also say that we would not have a conversation and that we have big words about the families. Last year I was a spokesperson for poverty and debt and spoke to a lot of people. I would also very much like us to bring poverty back, and that is also in our electoral programme. That's what we're gonna bet on. My colleague, Mrs Tielen, also mentioned the fact that this summer we discussed it extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u97	I would also like to ask you to speak through the President. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u98	I would like the coalition members with as much passion to try to get this bill off the table as they respond to attacks on their individual. I want to start with something that I find really objectionable. D66 now uses the supplement scandal to raise 100 million from the child benefit budget to bring that money to the UWV. I think that's really, really wrong. There were plenty of civil servants in the supplement scandal, you know. They hunted people and went after them. There's just rules deliberately broken there. I find it really, really outrageous that it is now being said that the supplement scandal has shown that it is necessary to cut 100 million on child benefit. It is fine to invest in the implementation organisations; nobody here is concerned about the fact that investment is being made in these organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u99	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u100	What we are talking about is the partial removal of 100 million from families already living in poverty. Does D66 share the view that that money can be found in much better ways than how it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u101	First of all, I would like to point out that I did not mention the supplement scandal myself. I didn't mention that. That's not in my text here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u102	It was just about "the parents of the IRS." I don't know if that was about parents of tax officials, but I got the distinct impression that you were talking about us being able to see at the Tax Office...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mrs Van Beuker has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u104	You can read it back. I didn't say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u105	It's not a game show here, is it? You may not have said the word 'tax service', but you said that when we implemented public services we could see that it was badly needed. And you were referring to the supplemental scandal, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u106	I don't want to have a well-nothing discussion about what I just said. You had two questions. At least you started by saying "sadly that you call it and that you refer to it." These are my words. And then you asked me, "What do you think about taking away $100 million from parents who are having a hard time?" That was your question, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u107	Isn't that much better to take that money away from somewhere else? Yeah, that was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u108	I am standing here because I believe that it is a wide package and I can justify and explain it, because it is a wide one... Well, you don't want to hear that word anymore. It's a wide package, and I'm behind it. I think I can explain it well. As I have just said, more money has gone to families in the past period. Another point, which I do not think has really been made, is that family allowances go to all families. I think it is important that much more be devoted to the children and the families who need it, and that is what happens with the child-related budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u109	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u110	Well, that's a good thing, because there's a proposal to change that today. We can say today that we are abolishing child benefit over two tonnes. Then we do not do it to the families and children in poverty and we can get the money out of there to make the much-needed investments at the UWV. Is D66 willing to go along with that and make sure that we make it to the families who earn more than two tons instead of the children who now go to school without breakfast?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u111	I have seen that Mr Kwint has tabled an amendment on this. I would like to look at that in my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u112	We've heard really nice and good stories from D66 over the past few months, and also in the campaign. We have also seen a nice programme of D66, which states that in the next cabinet period half of the people who now have to live in poverty must come from it. I also read Mrs Kaag's HJ Schoo lecture. She is concerned about all those children who go to school without a lunchbox and thinks that is a great injustice. She thinks it should be dealt with. We are in complete agreement with that. Only this bill, and that is what the Secretary of State's answers say, leads to more children in poverty. How does Mrs Van Beuker explain the choice of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u113	I understand Mr Van Dijk's questions. Yeah, we've been talking to each other on a regular basis. I don't want children growing up in poverty as well as other MPs. We agree on that. I am not yet convinced that the fact that we are not going to index child benefit next year directly means that more people are growing up in poverty. I'm not convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u114	Then Mrs Van Beuker does not believe what the Secretary of State answers to the questions of the Chamber. He writes that this is the result. No precise numbers are mentioned, but with 0.3% it leads to more children in poverty. And we have a problem with poverty in the Netherlands at all, because that remains structural, despite all the proposals made in the previous period to which Mrs Van Beuker refers. De facto, far too little has happened. That's why D66 says: we want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u115	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u116	The question is: is this going to be a right-wing start of Rutte III or are we really going to see another cabinet with D66, a cabinet that is open to opposition proposals, a cabinet that is really going to build a left-wing story and is no longer the side car of the VVD? If that happens and, if so, we can look at another cover tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u117	I understand what Mr Van Dijk is asking me. I would very much like us to be able to do something about people and children in poverty. Mrs Tielen mentioned that there were a number of points on the formation table. As far as I'm concerned, they should be there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u118	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u119	Rounding up. If that is the case, I would ask Mrs Van Beuker to at least hold this bill and rather withdraw it. It's gonna happen in the First Chamber anyway. It would please you, with all the ambitions of D66 and other parties, to say tonight: we are not doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u120	I heard. Let me make a small comment. I read back my lines very quickly, and I have to apologize to Mr. Kwint. I really thought I took it out. Excuse me, Mr. Kwint, you were absolutely right. I used it. I referred to it. I did have a broader sense in mind, namely a reference to the local level. Last year I also had the assistance in my portfolio, so I looked at the implementation organisations very widely. I also speak to people who end up at the UWV. Anyway, I just wanted to apologize for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u121	Thank you for correcting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u122	We have now heard the coalition's line of defence in this debate: it must be the broader package. We need to look at the broader package together. I would like to ask Mrs Huijbregts: what has this broader package brought the people who are having such a hard time today, the children who are having such a hard time, the children of single parents in welfare, for example, down the line of euros in the wallet? What did that get these people in euros in the wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u123	You ask if that broader package of people, single people... yes, you know the answer. That's not what we're talking about today. We're talking about the longer term. We are talking about making implementation organisations more effective and applying more tailor-made measures. That's what we want to invest in. At the moment, it doesn't benefit those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u124	That broader package of measures that would have been taken in the past is the constant line of defence we need to hear from the coalition parties here. If we take the cabinet, if we take the coalition out on what that broader package is, then the Nibud has been very clear about it on Princess Day. Those single parents in welfare are going backwards with the plans, with that broader package, just a tenner a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u125	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u126	My question is: how can you say that this broader package is so good, if even with that broader package, people lose tens a month, while on top of that, you also take people up to 50 euros with child benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u127	I am sorry that I have apparently used the word 'package' in this way. What I keep talking about is it's paid parental leave. I'm very excited about that. We are in favour of this. Tonight I am talking about investing in the implementing agencies. I'm not talking about the other package you're referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u128	Rounding up. I do think there is a certain repetition in the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u129	Then rounding it up, indeed. If the wider package only sees those two measures... That paid parental leave is of course also in the pass-through that is made by the Nibud. You're saying that's gonna pay so much for those parents. No, those parents go down a ten a month at the bottom of the line. What you're saying doesn't add up. You're going to make sure those parents get worse even with your wider measures. I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u130	Shall I continue with my input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u131	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u132	The money has to come from somewhere, too. If this bill is adopted, the quarterly amount of child benefit will be around €10 lower. That's the situation in three years. Of course I don't want to be light about this. We have many families who live in poverty and do not have much to spend. Each euro is therefore urgently needed. However, I think it is justified, because we are giving families a new advantage with parental leave. In addition, considerable investments have been made in the child-related budget in the past cabinet period. That investment in the child-related budget has just reached the people who can use it the most. The child-related budget is therefore a better instrument than child benefit, because the latter is not aimed at families who need the most. However, there is a group for whom non-indexing is going to be extra painful. It is about the people with a child living at home who need long-term intensive care. These people receive double child benefit and can also claim additional child benefit. This is a considerable amount of money. I am therefore very fond of the amendment tabled by my colleague from DENK to index the additional child benefit. Finally, Mr President. This bill, as I said earlier, is part of a package to find budget for important purposes, such as paid parental leave and investment in our implementation organisations. It seems undesirable to me to use the non-indexation of family allowances to further resolve the public debt. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber of any deviations from the estimated indexes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u133	Thank you for your input. The next speaker from the Chamber will be Mrs Palland. She will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mr President. In the ending government agreement, but also in the CDA election programme, you did not encounter the failure to index child benefit. It is a difficult measure, which a family party like the CDA finds fair but difficult to carry. Because in families, regardless of their composition, where people come together and come together, care for each other lies the foundation of our society. That foundation needs maintenance and reinforcement, not occasional but structural. Therefore, the outgoing cabinet supported families with children for over 900 million by increasing child benefit, the child-related budget for couples and the child-related budget from the third child. I'm very happy about that. At the same time, I realize that the bill we are discussing today does not fit into this list. It's a bill that I'm also wondering about: should this happen now and should this happen? The questions that live in this Chamber, but especially outside of society, were also my questions. Why cover an investment in the implementing organisations with a non-indexation of family allowances? Wasn't there any other cover? And what does this mean for the position of vulnerable families? I think we will soon agree on the need to invest extra in implementation. The report by the Bosman Committee on Implementation Organisations, signals from citizens who are getting into trouble, the lack of human standards, but also the implementation dilemmas that we ourselves encounter as Chambers when making policies, make that urgency painfully clear. The search for the right cover is a struggle, because the right cover does not exist, especially if this is how we agreed to be found within our own budget. Then it's hard to find cover that doesn't hurt anyone. The policy of SZW, Social Affairs and Employment, in particular, is about people, and not rarely vulnerable people, who need public support. I can follow the cabinet if it argues that it wants to share in proportion the pain of covering the extra expenses for the execution and paid parental leave: among employers by raising the Aof premium, among working parents by redirecting to the IACK, and among recipients of the child benefit by not indexing the child benefit. As a cover proposal, the ATR indicates the clean-up of old regulations. Mr Stoffer also mentioned this. When answering questions, the Secretary of State indicated that this could not be achieved in the short term. But what can be done in the longer term? It may still be useful to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u135	I'd like to interrupt, because Mrs Maatoug wants to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u136	I think the CDA colleague is asking very good questions. I hope that they have also been discussed exuberantly in the CDA Group. But when I hear the questions of the CDA group, my question, which I asked Mrs Tielen of the VVD: how did the 100 million of the implementation end up in that package?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u137	I understand that assumption. The explanatory memorandum states that this package was underneath it. But I can also remember the treatment of parental leave, which we have also thought about together. It is a broad desire of us to increase this, to improve the income position for parents who use it, but for which coverage is difficult to find. If you follow up the report on this consultation, you will see that Mr Koolmees said that this was part of it. There were several wishes, multiple tasks, for which coverage had to be found. That has become, among other things, this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u138	I'm a fast learner as a new MP. Apparently, we now need to look at the stenograms and the sub-sections of quickly speaking ministers in order to find out what the cover is. Long live the House's budget right! But the question I asked was another one. I heard very critical questions, including from the CDA Group, about how this works, because that coverage is complicated. My question was: why did the 100 million of the execution have to be in that package? On many other themes, which are also included in the CDA programme, all Members of Parliament here say that implementation is important. It has also been said in our committee SZW: this subject requires broad political weighting, so that is for the formation table. But we didn't do that here. Here we have said: we are working on that button indexing, let's run it a little bit further and cover the execution. Why is that in the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u139	This is a bit of a complicated question. It is a broad wish to get to work quickly with this implementation. That has more or less been set in motion. Then you'll have to find cover with that, too. I will come back to that in my further speech. If we can come up with something better in the long run, we can change that cover later. But there must be cover for the plans that we are going to implement in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u140	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u141	Finally, Mr President. I should like to hear a CDA group which itself says that it has questions and doubts. I should also like to see a CDA group which says that many other issues are important, but leaves them at the formation table. This has been politically chosen to take it and make children pay for execution. I don't understand that, but that's the CDA's explanation. Finally, what I don't understand is why all these critical questions are then asked. Because you're actually saying that we think that's a good idea. Then don't hide behind political and technical pranks. You choose to cover things like that. It's a pleasure for you if you're behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u142	I wasn't finished with my speech, so I'm still getting to that point. I wanted to point out that this is a difficult legislative proposal and that it raises questions that I hear from colleagues. Those questions, of course, lived with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u143	These are excellent questions from Mrs Palland. It is also an excellent electoral programme in which we fight together for fewer children in poverty, at least half, but also zero. That's where we'll find each other. But in which I cannot follow Mrs Palland, she says that the money must be found within Social Affairs, because that is, of course, not true. During the General Political Reviews, 2.8 billion was converted; there could be anything at once. It is therefore a political choice to do or not to do so. I think Finance is now telling the Ministry, first Minister Koolmees and now Secretary of State Wiersma: we are not going to pay it, you have to find it yourself. But you can also find alternative cover with us. Let's do it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u144	It's a choice where you cover that up. At the end of the day, of course, there are wide-ranging wishes that need to be covered. So you can't keep diving in the other ministries. The principle, especially if you look at the wider picture and the great desire to implement that parental leave, is that you are looking for cover for it. They are our implementation organisations and they belong to this department, the department where this task lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u145	I therefore believe that these are priorities that all need our attention, namely more and longer parental leave. We're gonna have to go to 70%. The First Chamber voted for it yesterday. The implementation organisations need money. And more money for children in poverty! That's what all the advice we get. For that, among other things, you have the child benefit, but there are a lot of other things you can do. Then why do you choose to take this step with those priorities? For me, all these priorities are very important and, in my view, so is Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u146	It is clear that we share these priorities. The question then is where you cover it from. Especially for the shorter period, this has come out of it. That's not nice, but it has to be covered. So that's a trade-off in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u147	Those children in poverty have nothing to do with priorities we share. The only thing that matters is the outcome. I just went to the list of speakers to check it out: you are the tenth speaker. We have been working for almost two hours now, and those ten speakers are about to be divided into people who think it's completely worthless and people who think it's completely worthless, but still consider voting for it. Then what are we doing? It's only $100 million. I myself put forward an alternative proposal for cover. If I can believe the stories of the formation, it is said that billions must be invested in our implementation services. Then you're not gonna take out another $100 million in this cabinet's time of injury, are you? That's right... What are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u148	That is a search which I would like to make with Mr Kwint once again, but the expenditure we are going to do is already for next year. Then we have little time to look at all kinds of alternatives. What the ATR has proposed, of course, sounds beautiful. We must indeed look at simplification and austerity of regulations and clean up old regulations. But that also takes time. That is why my question to the Secretary of State on this matter. I think it would be good to do so anyway, but the bill that is before us needs to be covered, even for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u149	That will undoubtedly be the case, although I have to say that I believe you are also under the amendment tabled today. I do not think there is any cover under that either, and sometimes it seems possible to propose something without cover. Now we are going to go to a situation where we will need 100 million in the UWV! Investment is being made. That money is being taken away from families, while at the same time the coalition table is negotiating additional investments at the Tax Administration, at DUO, at SVB and at... and mention all the abbreviations we have in this country. We will then come to the conclusion that investments are needed everywhere and that they will be made, because we all choose to do so, but that only those investments in the UWV will pay the children in poverty. We're not really gonna decide that tonight, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u150	Mr Kwint does not know what will come out of these formations either. I don't know about that either, and that account needs to be covered in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u151	I saw Mr Stoffer standing there, but I didn't know if he wanted to interrupt. Mr. Van Dijk, you've already been. I see you looking, but I have been quite generous, precisely because it is legislation. First Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u152	I understand, when I hear Mrs Palland saying even more than the VVD says about this bill: this is really not something beautiful and I am not happy to defend it here. I think that's a win in itself, but there's something stuck with me. The SGP election programme states that the family is the cornerstone of society and that is where SGP and CDA always find each other. That's how I know the CDAs in the country. It stands for that and is proud of it, but then I think: how can you get that you can't find anything else on such a huge budget for such a sum? I understand that there should be money next year, but I would say: look for that money occasionally for one year in, for example, the 8.5 billion that we put into education and that goes to all kinds of desks without getting into good education. Let's skim that for one year and use that money for that. And for the years that follow, it's actually only going to go until 2024. We'll see if we can bring that regulation down. Then we'll have a whole year. Before the Secretary of State arrives immediately either in a subsequent cabinet or makes his position available, I think he has already figured out how he can improve the regulatory burden so that we can cover this. So isn't it an option for us to cover it occasionally for one year? That could be a little out of that 8.5 billion, which is still being nailed down. Then we will solve the rest in a structural manner if the Secretary of State has thought carefully for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u153	That's a nice suggestion, but I think you have to cover structural burdens in any case. I understood Mr Stoffer correctly. He said, "Let's occasionally find a new cover for that."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u154	One year on an occasional basis and then on a structural basis. But then we'll have a moment to settle that rule pressure. I understand you can't do it in one day, but you can settle it if you take a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u155	I understand that's gonna be complicated, too. It must be done in accordance with the accounting rules. I haven't heard that occasional cover coming by either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u156	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u157	But I'm just suggesting that one, aren't I? Education doesn't know how to get rid of the 8.5 billion, so we can skim something of that occasionally. It's just a limited amount of money you're taking off. That is different in desks, or it will not be disposed of at all, and then it will end up somewhere in the reserves of schools. So let's just cover it up for an occasional year. Then we'll have a whole year to take care of it. Secretary of State Wiersma can certainly do that. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u158	So now we're going to decide that we're going to take money away from another department that has been decided on before. Nor does that seem to me to be the right order or the proper way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u159	One final question to Mrs Palland. Would you be in favour of another occasional proposal, regardless of my proposal for cover, which I think we could come up with? Suppose we say we take it from somewhere else by accident. Is that an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u160	Finally, Mrs Palland, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u161	You say 'we do it occasionally', but the investments underneath are structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u162	I get that. One year occasionally and then structurally in the way I have just appointed. I'm referring to lowering the control pressure. That is my proposal: one year on an occasional basis and then on a structural basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u163	I think the question is clear in itself. One more time, Mrs. Palland, and I'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u164	I understand that there is a great desire to come up with all kinds of other variants, but I would like to continue my speech, which I shall return to. I am not in favour of an agreement on a pot of money at 8.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u165	More women in politics is really good. I see three ladies tonight who all have Social Affairs in their pockets, namely the CDA, the VVD and D66. Women are always said to be able to live much better, to feel much better, to look at things differently and to be a little less hard than men. And now I see three women who actually take a very cold attitude. My question to Mrs Palland is as follows. Let's not fool each other. If the CDA, the VVD and D66, which I have heard now, are yet to come; then it happens that it was not a woman who had been in the opposition, then they would simply never have done so. Mrs Palland, Mrs Tielen and Mrs Van Beuker should simply say this from their group. Can you admit that? This is group discipline. I can't imagine... sorry, guys, I don't think you're hard at all, but it's always said. Can it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u166	Your point is clear. I give the floor to Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u167	I take note of the fact that I am a woman and might therefore have a different view of the world. Maybe it is. By the way, I had not directly linked that to this bill. Your point is, can you really defend this? The underlying tone was also a little bit like I'm standing here willingly. Well, that's the case. If we spend money together on the important priorities we set together, then that account needs to be covered. Tough choices have to be made and these are not always the choices that the CDA primarily says: that is what we really stand for. But it is part of making agreements, forming a coalition and taking responsibility for it, so that we can stand for it, even if it is difficult, even if there are accounts to be covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u168	Let me rephrase the question. What would Mrs Palland or the CDA have done with this bill if they were in opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u169	Again, and that is what I started: this is not a part of our electoral programme. We would like to invest in families. Fortunately we have been able to do this well over the past period, the resultant of the past period is still that net more money has gone to families. This is an annoying measure I would rather not have taken. But I can see that we have a problem with that. Suggestions have also been made, including in a question that Mr Omtzigt asked: we may have cover and we do not need it. That could be a very good solution. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State about that, but it doesn't make my story any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u170	Finalizing, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u171	That is a very long answer to a very simple question. The question was: what would Mrs Palland or the CDA have done if they had been in the opposition? As you know, the Constitution does not have parties but people's representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u172	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u173	There could be two answers to my question, namely 'I would still be in favour' or 'I would be against'. I would like to hear one of those two answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u174	Then we should also consider solidarity with families versus the stewardship of sound public finances. That's the tension field that's ahead here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u175	I propose that Mrs Palland continue her speech. I see you're at the interrupting microphone, Mrs Maatoug. You've started the Interruption Round. Perhaps you'll be able to do another interruption when Mrs Palland is finished. This is what I do as chairman, that's right. I can hear you outside the microphone, but we're not gonna do this. Mrs Palland continues her speech. If you want to ask another question at the end of that, you can. You can't go through this. This is going to take too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u176	May I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u177	You may make a point of order if it is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u178	This is a point of order. This is legislation. I don't know what time you want to go home, but I just want to debate. I haven't been able to ask a question yet. It seems to me that you, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, cannot simply say that you are not going to ask a question anymore, especially when it is so sensitive. A very good question has been asked by Mrs Van der Plas. I would like to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u179	That is what you can do at the end of Mrs Palland's speech, as I have just said. I would also like to remind the House that we still have the agreement that we are trying to conclude the plenary session in these corona times by 11 p.m., if possible. That's a deal we made with each other. It is also up to the President to pay attention to this. So I give Mrs Palland the floor. It shall continue its argument. At the end of it, anyone who really wants to do so can place another interruption. Mrs. Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is critical is that this bill also affects parents of children living at home with an intensive need for care. Mr Van Baarle has drafted an amendment to that effect, together with Mr Tielen and other parties. We're underneath it, too. Several parties in this Chamber have also asked questions about the impact of this bill on child poverty. I repeat that after them, but the income of households is, of course, made up of more sources than just child benefit. However, last week we also received a letter from the Secretary of State on the objectives of combating poverty, which I believe Mr Gijs van Dijk referred to. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State how he's going to implement this. Does he have a plan of action for this before the end of the year, so that we can combat targeted poverty? Mr. Chairman. Finally. There's a cover problem. We have a responsibility to cover the expenditure and investment we want to make, because we want to be good stewards in addition to solidarity. Mr Omtzigt has asked questions about the linking of inflation with and its impact on the revenue generated by this measure. We have seen the answers to that. The Secretary of State indicates that inflation is still uncertain. If we had more revenue than we need coverage, would the Secretary of State be prepared to use that space to the extent that the cover allows, and to go into indexation? We consider the bill to be a placeholder, as a temporary solution to an acute problem of coverage, which may soon be replaced by a better alternative by another cabinet. I'm gonna do my best to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u181	Mrs Maatoug for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u182	I think we're gonna get somewhere here at night in a debate in the Chamber. Maybe that's how it's supposed to be, because together you have more insight than your uppie or than four parties. Mr Stoffer just made a very good proposal. He got the answer from the VVD: I can't see that proposal from the ATR right now; what does that mean? You have just asked, through you, Mr President, a very good question along the lines of Mr Omtzigt's questions: is there no release of resources? Laws aren't placeholders. Then why don't we choose to say: this is what we're doing now, coming year that's covered and not those other years? I didn't quite get the answer from my CDA colleague. You can say: you make a broader weighting at the formation table, then you have to look again, then you have that ATR proposal, then we have the proposal... If it is up to GroenLinks, we are not doing it at all, but I was curious to see why you think that is a bad idea, given your own questions in the CDA Group, I say through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u183	The questions about the ATR are, of course, correct, but the Secretary of State has already replied that this does not provide the desired cover in the short term. This is without prejudice to the fact that that answer leaves room for the possibility that it may be so in the long term. I do not know whether that is realistic by 2022, 2023 or 2024. But if there is an option here to make money without pain in society so that we can invest in it, then of course we always have to bet on it. I think that's important. At the time of the issue of cover, that is the hypothesis that Mr Omtzigt has put on the table would not be necessary. My question to the Secretary of State is whether it can go down. That is without prejudice to the fact that you still have to decide on this first, because we are not sure yet. I have also read this in the answer given by the Secretary of State to the question of indexation: we do not yet know exactly how inflation is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u184	Finally. If I understand correctly, the CDA Group says: "We had some very complicated questions. We don't quite understand this either, but suddenly we were in a package. Just to be sure, in the spare time of this outgoing cabinet, we are going to book savings on children for years. Because yes, accounting rules we make ourselves. And if it isn't too bad later, we'll look again." Why not the other way around? Why not? This year we're doing this and we're watching next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u185	This is a repetition of the previous questions that we have raised with each other. That's something else I'm in. There is a multi-annual investment and it also needs to be covered on a multiannual basis. I have also seen in the electoral programmes of other parties, however, it is remarkable to read that a lot of parties are thinking about abolishing child benefit at all, also in order to put another movement into a package of child care and other child care schemes. It's actually simplifying the amount of rules we have. In that sense, it is still exciting what will come out later. It's not like other parties wouldn't change that. Let's share that with each other, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u186	Mrs Van der Plas just asked what the CDA would have done if they were in opposition, and there was simply no answer. Three interruptions and no response. That's possible; that's a choice from the CDA. But the CDA has a story here: I find it difficult, I find it difficult, I want to support the families and you name it. But of any proposal that comes out of the Chamber, whatever I think of it, from the SP, from the Labour Party, from the SGP, from all the other parties, you say no all the time. What alternative did you investigate yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u187	Of course, it is not true that everything is said no. Mr Van Baarle has put an amendment on the table which we are also under. I have just asked questions, and after me there will be other speakers. Well, that could be worth something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u188	Van Baarle has tabled an amendment to ensure that child allowances remain as they are for vulnerable children. You really don't need to get applause for putting your name on it. That makes sense to me. If we even have to say: look, I put my name underneath... The point is that from the Chamber there are several times, from different angles, that this is a bad idea. Except from the coalition. And then the CDA, as we know them, comes up with a story that they find it very difficult. They do not want to answer the question of what they would have done if they had entered the opposition and then come up with no alternative to the coverage of the 100 million and the 400 million. You're not gonna come up with anything. That just means that you want this in this way, that you just want this coverage through those families?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u189	I have indicated that this is indeed a difficult legislative proposal, but that we also see that it needs to be covered. I just want to stand for that, so in that sense the answer is yes. Yeah, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u190	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u191	Then it's obvious. The CDA just chooses to take the families with 400 million. They're pretending to be annoying, but they do admit, after six, seven interruptions, that they actually want it that way. Well, then we'll remember. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u192	I cannot share Mr De Jong's conclusion. There are proposals to partially adapt it. We've been asking questions. We still have to wait for the Secretary of State's term. And we have also indicated that much more has already happened in this area and that extra money has gone to families. So in that sense there are some nuances to be made in the conclusions that Mr De Jong draws here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you for your input. The next speaker, the one-after-last speaker on the side of the Chamber, will be Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u194	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a strange bill. It's a high-level you-brain debate so far. We should get back to the basics of why there's child support. That is to give parents with children some support for the costs that are inevitable when you have to raise one, two or three children. In the Netherlands you get €224 per child per quarter or, if the child is older, €321. In Germany it is €219 per month, to be understood, and in Flanders it is €169 per month. Family allowances in the Netherlands are among the lowest in the European Union. There is no one who thinks you can feed a child from €80 a month and pay the diapers. In fact, Nibud and the CBS are also investigating it: the minimum is about €200 and modal parents spend €300 to €400 per month on a child. That €80 for a young child does not stand in any proportion. This means that we in the Netherlands have a fairly high percentage of child poverty. Low family attachment, high poverty. These are communicative vessels that are often a bit denied here. That's two things. The first is that we do not have our definition of poverty in order. That is the only definition in Europe. This means that families at the bottom should not rise, proportionally, with the middle class, but should remain equal, which means that the gap rises year in, year out. So while the government's statistics have reduced poverty over the last 20 years, it is already slightly increasing under the European definition and we are not at all the frontrunners there. My first question is therefore whether you would like to tackle the definition of poverty and harmonise and simply follow the European definition. Because now the poor are constantly getting poorer. Secondly, and on that we have great confusion today: what is the minimum that you should be able to live by? I'll look to the left, but it's not a left or right question. That's a relevant question. But no decent research has been done in the Netherlands for decades to define what a family with one or two children needs. If you want to have a really annoying example... That is not for this debate: what does someone who is admitted to a nursing home need to live there for ten years? That's pocket and dressing money from something in the €200 per month, with extra care costs. There's no one who thinks you can make a living out of that, nobody. The government takes action one after the other. One time it's a QR code, which means that you actually have to be able to give your young children from 12 years old a reasonably new mobile phone call, otherwise they can't even show you the QR code. So the government doesn't want to set up a committee to review the social minimum? That's a slightly political question. I get that. What's that supposed to mean? Is that the football club? Or can that be the gym, too? But institutes like the Nibud have a very good view of that. If we don't define that, if we deliberately don't define it, nothing will happen to poverty here. Then everyone gets their favorite statistics. Because there's one thing people who are totally into statistics, like me, and the people at home in common: they understand that the current purchasing power figures are wrong. You have no illusion that people's purchasing power is improving at the moment, and not just because they see the new supply for their energy bill, which ends up on the mat at home. It is therefore very strange to see a legislative proposal which does not index the child benefit. The first question to the government is also to just take this bill off the table. It's weird for two reasons. The first is the logic that it is intended to pay for paid parental leave. That is annoying for those who already have a child, because they have nothing to do with paid parental leave. You have to take that in the first year after your child is born, but they get 18 years lower child benefit. That is 15% of the salary and for people on low incomes it is absolutely not a pleasant arrangement to take those nine weeks off, because you have a significant drop in income. So they do lose a piece of the child benefit, which is already very low in the Netherlands, but they still have nothing to do with it. Two: implementation costs. This is where we get a big misunderstanding in politics. The misunderstanding is that we have to make complex arrangements. There are two schemes that understand the whole of the Netherlands: these are family allowances and the AOW. Everyone understands when he's entitled to the AOW. Why is that so nice? Everyone also understands when the neighbor has no right or right to the AOW, and that is quite difficult to mess with. The same applies to family allowances. There's some discussion about it. Some people want them to be more dependent on their incomes. But it is in nature's nature an easy arrangement. It is even so feasible that it costs only 87 million euros a year. Implementation costs are therefore only 2 or 3% of total expenditure. How different is that with the AIO or the complicated surcharges or other income support measures we have? It is easy, cheap and reasonably resistant to fraud. What do we want as a room? Well, that is exactly why there is such a great support in society and why we are so keen to cut back. If you want to know why there is a gap between The Hague and the country, look at this bill. It doesn't look like shit. And then here's the thing. The government parties want to raise 100 million for ICT, for other laws, because this law does not require ICT. So for the complicated UWV laws, where we can't do it all the time. Then you couldn't index this or you could lower the child benefit by 2.7%, which I wouldn't recommend. But child benefit is not indexed under this law four times in a row: on 1 January and 1 July of the following year, on 1 January and 1 July of the following year and also a very small amount on 1 January of 2024. The benchmark of inflation is until October. Prices are rising faster in October now than they are falling for those who sometimes enter the supermarket or see an energy bill. But if we look at the current CBS inflation rates, we are already 1.4% off indexing until September. The indexing to take place on 1 January is therefore around 1.5%. In a year, you'll be on the 2.7% you need. Total expenditure on family allowances is 3.6 billion. Then you only have one year off indexing and not two years. That's why my parliamentary questions were there. Now I had the hope that the government itself would submit a letter of amendment so that it would not raise hundreds of millions more from children. And I'm sorry, but I didn't see it. If I have to, I'll serve one myself tomorrow. By the way, I'm warning you that I'm staying against this law because I think it's a bad idea. But there is a huge amount of cover because the bookkeepers have really gone completely loose. If you don't believe it, call Klaas Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank. It also warns today that inflation may continue to be slightly higher. You can do that by stating in advance that we are only going to do it for one year or by not indexing until it reaches 2,7%, but do not go around it. Mr. Chairman. This accounting mentality shows exactly that this old coalition has lost the whole idea of what it did. There is no definition of minimum living standards, which is more than half lower than in the surrounding countries, and we do not want to change the definition of poverty. If you see a government agreement later that says 'we are going for less poverty and do not want children to grow up in poverty', I will mention this bill and the total inconsistency of adopting it now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u195	Thank you for your input. The last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Ceder, will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will drop in with the door: of course, this bill is not a party. In fact, my group would prefer to see family allowances indexed over the next few years. We have agreed to this coverage because it is part of a wider package. This package invests in additional parental leave, as indicated above, and in the quality of implementation organisations. These are both important objectives, which are widely supported separately in the Chamber. However, it had to be paid. That is why we have sought balanced coverage with the coalition parties within the domain of SZW. As Minister Koolmees said recently in the First Chamber when dealing with the proposal on parental leave, unfortunately we have not found a money tree. In the end, therefore, we agreed to cover the burden sharing between employers, for example by increasing the Aof premium, and parents, by saving on the IACK and child benefit. It is a pity that we do not deal with the package in its entirety, because that would allow us as a Chamber to make an overall assessment. Perhaps that would lead to the same balance, but it would be less isolated, now that the proposal on extending parental leave has already been adopted with broad support from the Chamber. If you look at that in isolation, it is again not a celebration, but as has been said, my group has agreed on the overall package, which is part of it, and we want to keep our word. Fortunately, we can also note that over the past cabinet period, over 900 million extra has been allocated to children's schemes, which have given an impetus to financial support for families.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u197	The problem is that it is isolated for the parents. It seems to be a very important consideration here whether or not we discuss laws at the same time, but if I already have a child, I don't get parental leave anymore. I'll get a lower child support. Mr Ceder says: we have not found a money tree. I've been looking for that for years in vain. Do you see, before we vote on this bill, still the room to look at alternative coverage? I assume the deal in the coalition was about the total amount, but you're not tied to the way we get the 100 million. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u198	As I have indicated, the coverage is divided between employers' and parents' burdens. I also note that there has been investment in the child-related budget and that this will improve a group of parents. This is a little less the case with the non-indexation of family allowances. Again, it's not a party, but we did keep our word, and I will keep it. I can promise you the following. As you know, we are negotiating formation. You know what we're like when it comes to families. That's also the stakes at the formation table. If it's the Christian Union, there's gonna be something else. However, the legislative proposal, its handling, the deadlines and the agreements mean that we are standing here. We'll keep our word because we made that deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u199	That's not an answer to my question. That is quite apart from the fact that I find it rather silly to pass a bill through the Chamber with four parties and then say: I have good hope that we will come to a completely different outcome with exactly the same four parties. I'm not easily offended, but even I feel a little offended now when I see how my intelligence is being assessed. My question was: does that appointment look at the cover, the amount, or does that appointment also see how that amount is collected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u200	As I have indicated, this agreement looks at how the amount is collected: on the one hand by increasing the Aof premium, as you have already read, and on the other hand by saving the IACK and child benefit. These agreements were made a long time ago by the coalition parties. That makes this proposal a reality. We in the Christian Union said at the time that we would support it and we will keep our word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u201	Finalizing, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u202	So let me make it very specific: do these agreements go so far that even my proposal to cut the child benefit above two tonnes is not possible because these agreements are there? Not even when that means picking up the same amount or when you can make the same investments in the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u203	Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u204	Who in the four parties is so committed to child benefit over two tonnes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u205	We also looked to see if we could shape it in another way that hurts less and has been worn. The answer to that is no. I don't know what you're suggesting. I will look into it, but I repeat that the proposal was supported by the parties. You know how we stand in it. We are a party that keeps our word and this is part of it. I've indicated my commitment, but I can't promise you an outcome. I hope you know me well enough or have gotten to know me well enough in recent months to know that I mean it when I say that this is our commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u206	I quote a headline from the Reformatorisch Dagblad of 22 January 2021: "CU and SGP angry about freezing child benefit'. Now Mr Ceder says: we keep our word. But here is the following: "Christian Union chamber member Eppo Bruins reacts indignantly: 'As far as the Christian Union is concerned, no cuts are made in family allowances at all.' A spokesperson for the Christian Union adds: 'It has not been discussed in the cabinet and it has not been agreed with us either. We are certainly not going to agree to this either.'" What is Mr Ceder's word now? What can I hold the Christian Union to: this word, which is written here in black and white and is pronounced according to the newspaper, or to another word, which we do not know?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u207	Mr Stoffer quotes from my predecessor. I wasn't there. What I am saying is what I am saying here, namely that there is a proposal that has been supported by the coalition parties. We have been able to do nice things with that, but that does not make this proposal any more beautiful. In fact, I've said what I think of that. But a deal is a deal. This has been the choice and the Christian Union will keep its word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u208	This is black and white in the paper. They were statements of the Christian Union spokesperson. Then I guess... You're making a difference as a Christian Union! I'd like to call on Mr. Ceder to keep a true word. Hold that line. Hold on to what has been promised to the voters. This was in the paper and they voted for it. When we talk about keeping your word, you have to keep your word that you started and not the word that came after. So I strongly urge Mr Ceder and the Christian Union to keep a real word and make a difference here for families, for children and especially for those at the bottom of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u209	The words of Mr Stoffer touch me, precisely because that is my commitment and why I entered the Chamber. I think I have already said in reply to Mr Kwint that my commitment to the coming period is clear. I hope you will know me long enough to realise that I believe that too, and that that is also the commitment to the Christian Union. However, I shall go back to this proposal, which is part of a comprehensive package and which we will now agree to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u210	I would like to ask Mr Ceder if he is prepared to seriously consider Mr Kwint's proposal on incomes over two tonnes. Mr Ceder said: I do not know the proposal, but I am going to look into it. Does Mr Ceder therefore wish to reconsider in the group whether they agree to this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u211	I just indicated I'm gonna take a look at it. I have also stated several times in my contribution that this is a broad-based proposal from the coalition and that agreements have also been made on this issue. I'm gonna take a look at it. Once again, I am saying something about something that I do not know about, and at the same time I would like to tell you that there are also agreements. I do not have the immediate impression that these agreements will or can be deviated from. But as I indicated to Mr Kwint, I will look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u212	I was also curious to hear the views of the rest of the Christian Union Group. Is everyone back there? Because I now understand that it has indeed been cut off in the coalition and that the four spokesmen here share the coalition position instead of the political group position or the representative position. But how does the rest of the Christian Union stand in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u213	I can repeat once again that this is part of a total package, in which, of course, we have been able to achieve profits in terms of the child-related budget and in other areas. But I also think that if you ask the other members of my group if this is a celebration, they will say: no, of course not. At the same time, coalition participation also means taking responsibility. Recently, we were able to vote in the First Chamber for parental leave. I know that there is a broad shared desire to do something about the implementation organisations. That doesn't mean I want to make things better. I understand that, even if it is a few euros going up to a few tens or even more, it can have a huge impact, especially on the most vulnerable children. I get that. But I have also indicated that steps are being taken through the child-related budget. So to get back to your question: you could ask the group members yourself, but I think they will say the same, namely 'we keep our word because we take responsibility for it too'. I have just given the commitment for the coming period to a number of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u214	Finalizing, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u215	I am really curious how all the Members of all the political groups feel about this. In conclusion, therefore, I think that, when this is put to the vote, I will request a roll-call vote. I hear here in particular the coalition position and not the position of individual Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u216	Mr. Ceder, would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u217	I've been trying to keep as honest a story as possible. I do. If you request a roll-call vote, you may. That's your right. But you know how I stand in it, and you also know what my commitment is for the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u218	Of course, it is not entirely fair, because the Christian Union always goes into the campaign with 'we stand up for families'. That's an important fact. The Christian Union is seen as a party that stands up for families. And finally, at the end of the line, while they sit in the cabinet and could be a determining factor, especially on the basis of their election programme, they agree to the non-indexation of child benefit. You say it's not a party and it's hard; we know all those stories. But what has your alternative coverage been in the talks with the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u219	The fair story is that this is a weighted cover, which I believe has already been determined last year. There was a division between employers and employees. I don't know the details of that; I haven't been there. But I do know what the outcome is. That's what I'm committing myself to, because I just have to keep my end of the bargain. I'm going to repeat what I've reported to the others. You say "it's not a party" and you all use qualifications. But that's how I'm honest about it. I'll give you that. I have also indicated to you what the stakes are. I am not making it more beautiful, but I would ask you to look at what has been done on the other hand, particularly with regard to the child-related budget and parental leave. Parental leave does not matter to everyone, but was also a broad shared wish of the Chamber and society. So you have seen the heart of the Christian Union. I would also like to add my voice to what I have also indicated to my fellow Members about my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u220	It is not so much a question of seeing the heart of the Christian Union. It's about how the families look at that. The families thought they had a party in the Christian Union that stands up for them. They can't make a different balance than the following: the groceries are getting more expensive, my care expenses are getting expensive, the rent is getting expensive, I can't buy a house, my energy bill is getting more expensive and every ten is important to me. Now they hear the Christian Union saying it's a weighted cover. At the same time, they say they find it very difficult, but they don't come up with an alternative. You'd abandon the families, wouldn't you? You say I haven't been to the conversations. Yeah, people at home have nothing to do with that. You're standing here defending it. Once again, what alternative proposal do you say that you have difficulty with it? Did you mention it at the VVD, D66 and the CDA in order to prevent the 400 million from being removed from the families?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u221	Each euro counts, especially in these times. I couldn't agree more. In anticipation of my further contribution it is also indicated that this affects a certain group of seriously ill children extra. We want this to be prevented, so we are also looking at the most vulnerable groups. That is where we want the indexation to continue. We also believe that Mr Omtzigt has a point in relation to the questions he asked. So when it comes to cover, we also believe that it should go back to family allowances. I do not yet know exactly what it means in practice - we have to wait for the indexation - but it might be possible to shorten it much more in a few years' time rather than a few years' time. That is independent of the fact that you already know what my commitment is in the coming period. Perhaps it is possible that the indexing will be cut even less or may be completely out of the loop later on. Again, I can't make any promises about that. But I hope to show that there has been a search and talk. I also believe that there are proposals from the opposition, which I and my party believe we can support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u222	In conclusion, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u223	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm rounding up. But about the proposal not to let the non-indexation go on and therefore to index, you say: no, we are not going to do that. You are therefore in favour of a legislative proposal which will ensure that family allowances are not indexed. And then you talk about your commitment for the coming time, but you haven't shown in recent times that you've been fighting for alternative cover. At the end of the line your words can be beautiful, but the result is that you leave the families in the lurch. That is a painful observation. For the sake of the families, I hope you'll come to your senses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u224	I've indicated what I wanted to say. I have also indicated that Mr De Jong knows what my commitment is. I think there are proposals coming from the opposition. I have indicated that the Christian Union is in favour of this. This should be seen in a broader package. The burden is shared between employers on the one hand and parents on the other. There is also investment in the child-related budget. I do not want to make it more beautiful than it is and, once again, every euro counts, but we have made agreements to divide up the scarcity and we will keep those agreements. That is also part of taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u225	I'm a little confused. I thought that the Christian Union did not feel 100% bound to the cabinet and the measures taken, and that the Christian Union was in favour of a somewhat dualist attitude towards the cabinet. And now she is supporting against remembrance, and Mr Ceder is being honest about it, a measure which she really does not like at all. While the billions are flying you around your head, 600 million for the Tesla's Ohio, the Christian Union is taking the brunt of saving the children at the same time. Is there any freedom or any dualism? Or is it completely boarded up in the coalition and is the opposition just blowing for two hours and telling beautiful stories..................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u226	Last week, Mr Omtzigt rightly asked questions about indexation and said that there is a much higher inflation rate than was foreseen. He also said he would come up with a proposal. We can support that, too. If you ask us what should happen to the cover, if it is there, then you know what the amount is going to be, then we also think that linea recta should be returned to child benefit. That could mean that the suffering it causes could be reduced. Moreover, I would like to point out once again that, when regulating extended parental leave, a broad shared wish of the Chamber and also of society, implementation and a few other points have looked at possible coverage. This is the result of that. If you ask me if I am bound to do so, I will say that I feel bound to keep my word, also because a legislative proposal has already been adopted in this context. I do not feel bound to do so in a sense, but I do feel responsible for fulfilling the commitments in their entirety. You know my commitment. If you come up with a proposal in which you say that the cover should be returned, then I can be positive about it, although, of course, I still have to see the proposal. I hope that we can fight side by side with them. I've heard your contribution on the relative poverty line. It's concerns I share. I'm hoping to catch them in the near future. I hope you see my commitment with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u227	I'm a little surprised that there's a tuned story from four coalition parties. The concerted story involves: we have arranged extended parental leave and that is what this is a payment for. That's not true. We have a good habit here in The Hague that if you want to pay something else with it, you will submit it to the Chamber in one package. I understand, because as an opposition, we'd like to get the acid out and the sweet in. Sometimes you have a reprioritisation and you say: we have to spend this extra, this costs it and so we do it. But that is not the case here. There is no legislative proposal here that regulates parental leave and, for example, covers child benefit or, if you like, from the IACK. They're loose-cut legislative proposals. In this legislative proposal, 100 million per year and even 130 million per year are structurally cut back on child benefit. That money is used to pay the expensive ICT guys to keep the stuff at the UWV going a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u228	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u229	Do you share the view that it is not intended for that purpose? And how could it be that there were billions more available in the budget at once, including hundreds of millions for extra electric driving, that they liked at D66, that there was a VVD motion for 1.8 billion in the General Political Reviews, and that the Christian Union should take the cut on family allowances? That's not a fair deal, is it? Or did I just miss something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u230	I understand in general Mr Omtzigt's dissatisfaction, but I do not agree that we would be dealing here with a totally isolated proposal. In the past, agreements have been made by the coalition that the proposals would not be treated equally. The parenting proposal has been dealt with before the bill we are discussing today. This does not mean that the agreements have not been made in conjunction with them. So I do not share the view, because I do feel kept to agreements. I want to keep our word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u231	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u232	We have appointments that are on paper. That's what we call a coalition agreement. That should be a little shorter, but most of us understand why there is a coalition agreement. You have to pick up the money somewhere, and you have to spend it on something. And there's tension. But apparently there is also a whole series of unwritten appointments. That's what we need to find out during law enforcement. As a chamber, we actually have nothing to say. Those appointments were made somewhere. If it is the political groups in the interwar period between two governments in Europe, or perhaps we are already in Rutte IV? Even if we do not succeed in taking an independent position, I have a hard mind that we are going to have an open debate culture under Rutte IV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u233	I think my position is clear. Nor do I agree with the fact that I have not been able to express my position as I wish. In fact, I have made it quite clear that there are two positions that I support, namely my position on how we should deal with child benefit and my position on meeting agreements, certainly financial agreements that have enabled you to do nice things. That does not affect any euro that a parent misses because of this proposal. I would like to say once again that you know my commitment and that I will also defend my position in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u234	Finally, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u235	Mr Ceder and I were both new candidates in the last election. We have met once in fine conversations through you, President, in which we talked about politics and new politics and how we look at them. Much has changed in six months, because I'm seeing a different Mr. Ceder than the Mr. Ceder I've met. I'm sorry to hear that. But that wasn't my question. My question is along the lines of Mr Omtzigt's. Alternatives have been offered in this debate, with a lot of input. A very nice alternative was given by Mr Stoffer, who himself also refers to the under-exhaustment that Mr Omtzigt is talking about. I asked myself why we should put those cuts in 2022, 2023 and 2024. Did you hear anything in today's debate that you think might lead me to different ideas? Or: I think that's a very good argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u236	Certainly, I have heard a lot of arguments as to why this will affect parents and why we should not base ourselves on the fact that it would be relatively small amounts. That's what I heard, and I feel for it. I've also heard in the last few days that we should do something with that cover. We've been working on that very seriously. That makes me feel free to do so, although I still have to wait for Mr Omtzigt's proposal to say something about the issue of the cover of family allowances coming from the opposition. It's not like I'm saying here: I keep my appointments, I don't listen to what's being said and I don't do anything with it. I've already reported that. Mr Van Baarle also made a good point. I agree that we should spare the most vulnerable, especially children who are hit twice. I think you will hear in my story that I want to keep agreements and how I stand in them, but on the other hand you will also hear that I do take the opposition seriously. I also indicate what I think I can agree with when I see the proposals. You have heard my commitment for the coming period. I hope you will hear a well-considered view from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u237	I appreciate that, because that means that we are being usefully debated in this house of democracy and that it is not the case that we could have voted right. You say this like this and add up everything. You have just said words on which we can believe you and say that you support those agreements. Reference has been made to the words of your predecessors. I know you're working on some very nice proposals. Why not say to the Secretary of State and the Cabinet after that total weighting: "You know what? We're just like the original law said. We do a placeholder for one year and then look further, in a total weighting on that formation table." Then you solve the practical problems. Accounting can do it all. We can just choose that. That's up to us. And then you can bring in your own ideals. Then why do you not say that at the end of such a debate and continue to defend a deal, a package that was not described anywhere and that we as MPs of the opposition could not have known?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u238	I indicated earlier that it was a package, but that it was not the case that nothing happened to it. You know the legislative proposals that I mentioned earlier and which have been able to make a difference for many people. I'm telling you, I want to keep my word. This also has to do with the fact that it is a proposal that has been supported by several parties and for which I also feel responsibility. I think you have also heard from the other coalition members where the tension is, but here and there there was a commitment to see what is possible. I can therefore promise that I will have that commitment. I have already indicated that, given the higher inflation rate, we believe that we need to do something about this cover. We believe that it should go straight back to family allowances. If there is a proposal for this, I shall look into Mr Omtzigt's question as to whether the cabinet will be able to deal with it. That is the commitment I want to achieve today. Mr Van Baarle has also made a good point. I would also like to say that we all have to take care of this. Mr President, so far. I hope that we can continue to have the fair debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u239	Thank you for your input. We have come to the end of the first term of office. We're gonna suspend until 9:35. Then we get the first term from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u240	The next item is the continuation of the debate on a legislative proposal concerning the non-indexation of the basic child benefit amount. We need the first term from the government. But first, Mr Kwint has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u241	I have a point of order. During this debate RTL has been informed that this bill is not going to pass and that the Upper House does not agree. Now I have a question and a proposal. The question to the Secretary of State is whether he is already having talks at this time, which makes him think that this bill has a chance in the Upper House. The proposal for colleagues is to keep the legislative proposal, to include it in the coalition discussions and, if necessary, to include it in the budget debate. We're already reading at RTL that the bill is never gonna make it. We can discuss this for another two hours, but it seems to me, frankly, a waste of our time if we know that this bill is not going to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u242	That is a creative combination of a proposal of order and a question to the Secretary of State. For the sake of time, I think it would be wise for me to have the Secretary of State first answer the question. Then I will look at how colleagues judge the point of order. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u243	Mr. President, have you blocked me already? Did you close the debate yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u244	Well, I had "the speaker" on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u245	What I want to say is that I have prepared myself for answers to the questions raised in the debate. That's a wide range of everything. I think it's nice to give the Chamber an answer to that. I cannot give an answer to the question of how it will then land in the First Chamber, because that is up to the First Chamber to review the regulations on many aspects. I've got the First Chamber high and it's up to them. I can't rule on that. Fortunately, I would like to say to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u246	No, I'm not gonna let you react now. The Secretary of State has given an answer and I am now looking at the other groups how they feel about Mr Kwint's order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u247	Support for the proposal. I should also like to point out that, as we know, the Council of Ministers talks about increasing energy costs and how they should be compensated. That's about billions right away. This is about 100 million. My proposal would be to keep it. Be sensible and do not let it lead to a political clash.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u248	You support the order proposal. This is not a substantive contribution, but a response to the question of who supports the proposal of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u249	Mr President, support for the request, because I assume that the cabinet is also looking at promising legislation. We are against these 400 million cuts. The First Chamber now also indicates that they are not going to accept it, so save the effort and pull it in or keep it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u250	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that this is not going to get a majority in the First Chamber and that a large part of the coalition parties do not really want it here either. So keep it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u251	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u252	Definitely support the proposal. I fully endorse what Mr Van Baarle said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u253	Support from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u254	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u255	No support for the proposal. I think the Secretary of State has clearly indicated that it is up to the First Chamber when this bill is ready and goes there. We should not anticipate all kinds of things. I think that's an undermining of the way we deal with each other in a democratic home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u256	It seems strange to me to make a decision on the basis of a news report. So there's no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u257	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u258	I think it would be a good idea to wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u259	I conclude that a majority of the Chamber wants a continuation of the debate. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State in the first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to do my best to give your room answers. If you will allow me, I will do so with a general introduction and then five different blocks: the consideration of the proposal and also the total agreement that has been mentioned a few times; the proposal and the increase in the child-related budget, which has been mentioned a few times, and then the investment in supporting families, which has been talked about a lot. Next, I would like to say something specifically about child poverty. I do so separately, because many questions have been put by your Chamber. Finally, I would like to say something about surplus and inflation. How could we do that? There have been a number of proposals from your Chamber for this. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the general introduction. The corona crisis has asked a lot from our implementation organizations UWV and SVB. It is known that they are implementing additional emergency measures such as the NOW. There is an additional call on the ordinary service and they have also had to adapt their business operations to the corona crisis. This requires a great deal of flexibility and agility on the part of these organisations, and the crisis actually underlines the importance of these organisations. At the same time, these organisations must also be ready to continue to deliver on society in the future as promised by politics. It is therefore a priority of this outgoing cabinet to further strengthen the manoeuvrability, continuity and future stability of the implementation organisations. The cabinet also wants to move towards better personal services with greater respect for human standards. That simply requires a substantial investment. As of 2022, the cabinet will therefore invest 100 million extra in the implementation of UWV and SVB. Mr. Chairman. A number of parties have rightly said: has implementation been cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u261	I would suggest that the Secretary of State should at least finish his introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u262	Yeah, but when it comes to numbers, I run forward. I am just curious to see how much of the 100 million that is being stepped up is being stepped up for child benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u263	One more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u264	The execution needs to be improved. I have just argued that the cost of implementing child benefit is very low. So how much of the 100 million needed for implementation is needed for the better implementation of child benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u265	Okay. Then I understand the question. Mr Omtzigt's question is: where do we spend those funds and how much of this amount do we specifically spend on improving the implementation of family allowances? At the SVB part goes to ICT regular. It is quite difficult to determine in advance whether this goes specifically to family allowances or not, but that is the case. Furthermore, it goes to customization in services. If you call UWV, they now have a custom garage and a number of other ways to help people who run into problems, also by calling them. I'd like to tell you more about that, but I'm not gonna do that right now. So it is really all those steps that we want. That is where these funds go and that, I think, affects family allowances too, but I cannot link that one-on-one here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u266	Can I simply conclude that out of those 100 million less than 10%, less than 10 million, is needed to improve ICT for child benefit? Look at the bill and you'll see that the overwhelming majority of it goes to the UWV. This is therefore cutting back on families with children, because the UWV does not have the service in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u267	In my reply, I believe that the total investment in SVB amounts to 27 million. I leave it to Mr Omtzigt to conclude whether or not that is well spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u268	The conclusion to Mr Omtzigt about what the government is spending its money on is very special. Then I really would have to look for a position elsewhere, namely in the profession, and I wasn't going to do that for a while. But if you cut up the 27 million and see where the implementation costs are, you can see that the SVB has less than a third of the child benefit. That is why I say: out of those 100 million in intensifications, perhaps 8 or 9 million will end up with better services for child benefit. The other 92 million, taken away from families with children, goes to the UWV. Just say that honestly here, because that's the bill ahead of you. It's okay, but it's not pretty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u269	I'm just gonna tell you what the distribution is. What Mr Omtzigt says is true, because a large part indeed goes to UWV. 27 million goes to the SVB and goes there to ICT and services customization, and that of course affects family allowances. But it's not so easy to pinpoint how that one-on-one is linked to each other, even if you ask an employee. But it is at the top of the cabinet that it benefits services.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u270	Mrs Maatoug on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u271	This is very relevant. I am also curious about the rest of the answer. We have received a letter from the outgoing cabinet stating that 735 is needed structuralally for the execution, for the human size, for UWV and for SVB, in the larger context of surcharges, of more services. Those are all things we say: that's for the formation table. The question is specifically which part is going here and why it had to be in this package. I think it is a little strange that we do not get such a concrete answer, because I think that is very relevant to the debate we are having here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u272	I will come to the points made in relation to the legislative proposal and then to the legislative proposal and the questions that have been asked about it. I hope that includes the answers Mrs Maatoug is looking for. Otherwise, I don't understand the question. Maybe she can explain it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u273	I conclude that the Secretary of State simply does not know the answer to Mr Omtzig's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u274	I think there are two different questions. One is like this. There is a major task: work on the implementation. That's a big assignment. We filled in part of that with this $100 million. That was necessary. This is devoted to a variety of challenges. That is what I said in reply to Mr Omtzigt. At the same time, there is a bigger challenge than the 100 million. I think Mrs Maatoug is referring to that. It's also big and important. It also has the attention of the cabinet, but in part it is also making choices in scarcity. That will also be for another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u275	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u276	I'll come up with that. Has the cabinet itself cut back on the execution? It is true that by previous Cabinets a smaller and more effective government has been deployed. The causes of the current problems at UWV and SVB are diverse. It is a combination of targets, a digitisation exercise, an outdated ICT landscape, a multitude of complex policy challenges and staff shortages. There was insufficient investment to maintain the basic quality of the service, so the investment of 100 million per year in implementation is therefore needed. But it's not the only thing that's gonna be necessary in the end, like I just said. The measure is also mentioned in the debate as part of a broader package of intensification, as part of the integrated decision-making that we have made in the budget. Mr. Chairman. How's the $100 million distributed? I specifically mentioned the projects. Among other things, Mr Van Baarle asked for that. 71 million goes to UWV and BKWI on an annual basis, 27 million to SVB and 1.5 million to SZW. Most of these investments go to ICTs, in particular to eliminate late maintenance and to ensure that necessary projects can continue. By the way, an important part of this goes to information security and privacy, because we see that these systems are not always resistant to it at this time. Those data are huge, so we'd like to do that. It also has urgency to do so, so that's why we're spending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u277	Mr Van Baarle on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u278	I can also finish my introduction. Whatever you say, Mr. Chairman. You're the boss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u279	Let me ask you a question: is the Secretary of State going to be able to make a broader assessment of this broader package in his own right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u280	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u281	So he's about to go deeper into it. Okay, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u282	Otherwise you may remind me again, but that is my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u283	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u284	Mrs Palland of the CDA asked: is not cleaning up old regulations a solution, even to save the 100 million in the short term? Mr Stoffer also asked: what are you going to do with the proposals of the ABDTOPConsult? That is why we support this interest. The Bosman Committee has pointed out that there is a great deal to be done in simplifying legislation. From the Ministry of Social Affairs, letters have been sent to the Chamber about the bottlenecks and the dilemmas, the letter of dilemma. There are also several, dozens of proposals from the performers on how to do better. So that has our attention. I would always like to do something about the deletion of complicated rules. Suggestions for that are also in your room. So we also see concrete measures. At the same time, I would like to guard against one thing, as I say to Mr Stoffer, who explicitly asked for it. I share the suggestion that there is scope to adapt or reduce measures, or to reduce their complexity, but I would then like to discuss the suggestion that this will also automatically save implementation costs. It is not for nothing that we in this Chamber often ask for extra money for the performance of personal services. So less rules: good. Less complexity: top. If that leads to less costs, well, okay. But that's not necessarily true. We have, I think, also come to realize the lesson of recent years, that personal guidance is very important to provide the good help. So it's not automatically a given. We report on the state of play on this issue in the state of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u285	I would, of course, like to thank the Secretary of State for the answer he gave. What he said about automatism, I understand. But of course you can try to send it. So my question to the Secretary of State is whether he really wants to send his successors or perhaps his successors who are going to play a role in it and whether he wants to report specifically to the Chamber on how this is being taken up and, above all, how it is being sent. After all, you can always say that you don't do it, but if you send a question as to whether we can actually achieve a cut in the budget, you might do it differently than if you don't explicitly focus on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u286	I admit that we take this with us in the state of play. I'll give you a disclaimer, which is that I wouldn't want us to just charge for execution costs. The aim is better regulation, more tailor-made and clearer regulation so that people can follow it. There are also parts in it, the hardnesses were mentioned, that you are not immediately a fraud if you make a mistake. I would say that we want to steer those targets. You're gonna need a good execution for that. If that leads to simplification and ultimately to less costs, that's nice. However, I do not think that it is wise to control only less implementation costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u287	No, I don't think it should be purely cost-oriented. But I used to work in a very big organization and there you had all slack, things that leaked away a bit because you had to organize and arrange all kinds of things. But in the group where I work now, which is a bit flat, I notice that it works much more efficiently if you make things smaller and finer. So I would like to give you that view, the way the SGP works. Perhaps that could give a different perspective. You save a lot of money on it. I'm a treasurer, too, so I know how to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u288	Thank you for this plea for even more parties in this Chamber. Oh, "not that," Mr. Stoffer calls. I'm sorry, I misunderstood. But clearly: we take into account how this works out and how we can do this easily. I already mentioned the dilemma letter. I think it would be wise for the Chamber to look at this carefully and then identify the dilemmas that should be addressed. We are holding the debate on the state of implementation and we are therefore also instructing the Chamber to do so on all these different arrangements, there are a lot of them. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Tielen of the VVD asked if there could be reports on the use of funds. Can we take that? I can promise. Annexes to the annual reports such as the UWV information plan also report extensively on progress on topics including ICT. I will also indicate what organisations with these funds can do for the citizens. It is also taken into account in developments, twice a year at the state of implementation. Mr President, that was my introduction. Well, then I'm going to come up with the trade-offs on the bill. Then I come to the legislative proposal, but since many questions have been asked about the trade-offs, I think it would be a good idea to spend some time on that as well. The proposal we are discussing today, the non-indexation of family allowances, is part of a wide range of measures. The coverage is therefore also for the wide range of investments and, in part, for austerity. The package provides not only for better public services, but also for the extension of paid parental leave, as mentioned in the debate. The Court has raised critical questions about this proposal on child benefit. The responses to the proposal in the internet consultation also show that people in the country, citizens, are also critical of it. "Why do we have to pay for this?" is a question that has often been asked. I understand that question and I also understand that this is not a nice measure. Several people have said something about this in their own words. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate why it is an acceptable measure for the cabinet after a wide-ranging consideration. The cabinet has sought balanced coverage for the overall package, with the burden being shared between employers and also parents. The cabinet has chosen to provide for the package by, among other things, increasing the contribution Disability Fund, the Aof premium, reducing the income-dependent combination discount, the IACK, and the non-indexation of child benefit. In this combination, the cabinet feels that this is a balanced distribution. I have heard what your Chamber thinks of that, but the cabinet sees it as a balanced distribution. This is also due to the fact that temporary non-indexation is acceptable within the whole range of measures taken by the cabinet during this period to support families financially. Due to substantial additional investments in families with children, they have made structural improvements during this cabinet period. During this period, for example, the cabinet increased child benefit by 250 million, the child-related budget for couples by 500 million and last year the child-related budget from the third child by 150 million. As announced in this proposal, the government also looked at the overall purchasing power picture in August and allocated additional funds to the child-related budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u289	May I conclude that this is the answer to the question asked by many about the why of the law? Yeah? Then now I guess the time is... Mr Van Baarle was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u290	Well, let's talk about the broader package. Colleagues, of course, referred to this earlier in the debate. I sincerely wonder where this came from. I've just been reading back the pieces, too. There are a number of documents underneath that legislative amendment for parental leave. Indeed, as Mrs Maatoug quite rightly said, no mention was made of the non-indexation of family allowances. At least I haven't been able to read it anywhere. We just heard Mr. Ceder say on behalf of the Christian Union: well, that was actually a long time ago. Where? I've never been able to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u291	A message was just quoted from January in which the Christian Union and the SGP were mentioned. So it's not like there was no coverage of that. I have to say that I'm not exactly... I wasn't there at the time, I'm just saying. You ask whether we have appointed this in the treatment of parental leave. Minister Koolmees then appointed that in the debate. I have it here and I can quote it, if you like. It's been a part of it. The question was: why did you choose to implement this funding? In all honesty, the Minister says, it has been part of a broader discussion over the past year. Paid parenting had to be implemented from the European Directive. That has budgetary implications. Then there will be a number of points about these consequences. In the meantime, a number of aspects of the implementation needed to be taken into account in the discussions with the parties formally known as the coalition. We had the bill paid parental leave, but also wishes of UWV and SVB about the implementation. A combination of measures has been developed for this purpose. Your room said, "Why don't we do it all at once?" I understand. That's what I thought, because that's a combination of sweet and sour, you might say. This makes it difficult to follow it in conjunction here. This is the third step, the last step of these measures. It's part of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u292	I ask this because the coalition parties and the Secretary of State are always referring to a broader package. In my opinion, the Secretary of State is right to point that out. But that broader package was never presented to the Lower House as such, only in a detail in the margins of a debate. I was never able to weigh that up as a Member of Parliament at the time. If, at the time, the legislative proposal, the explanatory statement or the underlying documents had been put "we use it as cover', my group might have changed it or perhaps made the decision not to support the cabinet's plans at all, because we do not want a non-indexation of family allowances at all. Does the Secretary of State at least share the view that this is, to put it mildly, a very unfortunate state of affairs and that it is right that I, as a Member of Parliament, feel a bit fucked up at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u293	No, I don't share that opinion. I do think it would be nice for the Chamber if you had measures that have something to do with each other, because the cover has to be found in this case. That is what the Minister said in the debate on parental leave. We have the use of the Minister of Finance is right to insist that if you want to put it in your own budget you organize it neatly with each other and find how to do it. In this case, a number of things have come together, and this has led, among other things, to an intensification of parental leave, but also to the question of how to solve it. A deal was made about that, and that's not crazy. It was also mentioned in the debate on parental leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u294	I'm feeling a little schizophrenic, and I can explain that. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment sends a letter to the Chamber on Monday in which he gives the figures on poverty in the Netherlands and in which he also writes that further efforts are needed to reverse the tide. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau notes that if we do nothing else, poverty will grow by 25%. So we are being asked and today, this evening, we are debating the non-indexation of family allowances. Does the Secretary of State understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u295	Yes, I can imagine that Mr Van Dijk sees it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u296	I would point out the responsibility of the Secretary of State. He is responsible for poverty policy in the Netherlands. He's responsible for it. He's even got targets for "to halve poverty in the Netherlands in the next few years." That's the purpose of the cabinet. Indeed, as Mr Omtzigt says, we have to talk about the right standard, but we are going to talk about that. That's responsibility one. Responsibility two is indeed doing something about parental leave, seeking good cover. Then he takes the child benefit and goes wrong with the first responsibility, namely fewer people in poverty in the Netherlands. How does the Secretary of State rhyme with these two responsibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u297	I come back to child poverty as comprehensively as Mr Van Dijk agrees. Well, let's focus on those considerations. I just said that the cabinet invested a lot in it during this period. That's what you see in child support. If nothing had happened, the child benefit would have been really lower. That is still the case, even with the non-indexation in the coming years. With this proposal, child benefit is still higher than if the cabinet had done nothing. But I understand, apart from that, that does not alter the problem we see of poverty in households, specifically in those with children. Let me also say that no one cuts for pleasure, not families and certainly not children. I will come back to what we are doing there in a moment, but I also say that without the measures taken by this cabinet, households with children would, in general, have improved purchasing power less than households without children next year. We didn't think that was fair either. That is why in August we raised the child-related budget, its ceiling from the second child, by €70. That's 55 million structural. It is therefore not the case that we are not taking any measures at all, not in the past cabinet period or in the past decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u298	Finalizing, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u299	Finishing, about that cover. The Secretary of State says we should look for him in Social Affairs. We are now rightly talking about a billion-dollar package for rising energy prices. At the APB, 2.8 billion has been moved, because we consider that important here in the Chamber. Why, then, should this important part be found in such a nasty child benefit coverage? As a politician, we can make a choice in that, can't we? Surely we can agree in that billion-dollar energy package that we're gonna take care of this $100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u300	Let me say first of all that I understand Mr Van Dijk's feeling, especially when you see this from the Chamber. I also understand that you can think in isolation: what is this proposal? That is why I explain it, and I consciously pay attention to it. It can't be enough, I realize that. That's a choice the Chamber has to make. I will explain what has been done in recent years, what has been done, for example, on child benefit, 250 million more, and what we are doing now on the child budget. In the overall package, this yields a plus in households with children. Of course, you can differ on whether that plus should have been higher or not. Several questions have been asked about this. But in the overall balance, that is balanced. That's the choice the cabinet made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u301	The issue of child poverty, I shall come back to that in a moment. But let's get back to that package. Now it is again about a consideration that has been made and things that can be considered in conjunction. The Secretary of State is not envying that he can solve the shit of Minister Koolmees; ex-Minister Koolmees, the person formally known as Minister Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u302	The Minister is still Minister, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u303	Finally, we have found an expression of the new governance culture: a minister without a portfolio! Is it true that, apart from the subtlety that the Secretary of State just read to the opposition parties, it has not been made clear to the opposition parties at any other time that a consideration was made here that was part of a sort of broader package?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u304	Soon we'll have a whole discussion about when something is a package. If this had been one package, it would have been together. That is not the case here. This also has to do with the fact that some effects go easier than others. In this case, the cabinet has found this balanced in its overall impact and has also submitted it to the Chamber in those three steps. I recognize that you would think: I liked parental leave, but I do not like the coverage for that. I get that. I do not like it either, but we also have a responsibility to make a balanced proposal. In any case, as a member of the cabinet, I am supposed to do so. That is what we have done with this proposal. That's why it's in the Chamber now. So it's part of that whole package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u305	Not funny, that's not the point. Things happen all day around here that I don't like. That's what I'm paid royally for, so I'm gonna live with that. What matters to me is the extent to which the parties have been able to weigh up. Then you have to deal with the position of the Chamber vis-à-vis the cabinet. Then I find a subtlety, while it is about two different legislative proposals... we have two legal treatments in which there is no mention of a connection between those things. Then, based on some sort of mumbling at 5:12 p.m. from a minister in a subtlety, we have to deduce what the coalition seems to have known a long time ago, namely that there is a very large and coherent package and that they are going to complain here all night about the fact that it is not really such a beautiful bill, but yes, they have just agreed. On the basis of that one sentence of Minister Koolmees!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u306	No. In the explanatory memorandum to this proposal, I shall quote it after the reason and the considerations: "The investments in the implementing organisations are part of a wide range of measures which have freed up funds for paid parental leave and the implementing organisations. (...) This is a package that seeks balanced coverage among employers, working parents with children up to 12 years of age, and all parents with children up to 18 years of age."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u307	Finalizing, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u308	I have read that in this proposal, of course. But that package runs back quite a while, if I've reconstructed it well in the meantime. We are talking about already completed legislative proposals. There was nothing at the time that would have led us as Members of Parliament to suspect that there was a package here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u309	Finally, the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u310	I believe that this has been appointed on every occasion where the various measures have been discussed. You called it parental leave. I am defending this proposal here. I wasn't with that defense. So I can't use my own words right now here, because I didn't say them. But Mr. Kwint pretends it's a big secret. I don't think that's too bad. You're looking for measures together for a proposal you want, like paid parental leave. In fact, parties have different views on this. There are still wishes to increase that. That can be all, but then you have to cover it properly. I feel the responsibility of doing so in this ministry. Those are the rules we agreed on. This sometimes leads to measures that I say "not nice"......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what I'm trying to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u311	The Secretary of State states: it's never fun; we all don't want to cut budgets that go to children. But you do: 400 million euros. When I look at the answers of the written round, the cabinet says that it has not considered any specific other coverage measures, literally, on page 3. It didn't even consider it! Then you just want to take the money away from the families. Otherwise, you would have considered another cover measure. Why didn't you consider another cover measure not to catch the families in that way, as you are doing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u312	I think this package is balanced in its entirety. That's what I've been trying to explain. According to the Cabinet, these measures are part of this. Otherwise, we wouldn't be introducing them here. I understand that Mr De Jong's assessment is different. It's okay. That's very good. It's important that we switch here. Nor is it true that there could be no other cover at all, but they also have consequences. The cabinet has proposed this cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u313	But you say here that you find it painful. This cannot go hand in hand with the fact that the cabinet said in the written round that it did not consider any other cover measures. That's crazy, isn't it? You take 400 million from the families. That's what you're saying: that's painful, but I didn't see how I could've covered it in any other way without getting those families. Then you obviously want that cover removed from those families. And then you tell Mr Kwint that you don't want to talk about packages, but one second later you start talking about a package. The coalition's line of defense was: it's a package. A package doesn't help people at home. They have something to do with the fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u314	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u315	...that everything becomes more expensive. My question is then still how credible it is that the Secretary of State says that it is supposedly painful, when no attempt has been made to do otherwise, which means that families are caught hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u316	Let me outline the context that I have just outlined. On the other hand, we have made investments in the various schemes in recent years, for example in family allowances. If you look at the child benefit at the beginning of the cabinet period and at the child benefit now, it is much higher. It is still higher with this proposal. He's getting a little less high, which is right, but we get paid parental leave for that, among other things. That is also very nice for a lot of parents and also a wish from a lot of parents. In that combination, you look for measures that have that balance. Part of the account also goes to employers because we want to distribute it in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u317	Rounding off, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u318	It just doesn't add up. This bill is put forward because the service provision at the UWV is supposed to be improved. To pay for that, you take money away from the families. I can really get mad about that, because you are opening with "it's painful" but in your own answer it says that you haven't even tried to relieve the families, not to take it away from the families. You can say that in the past we have done this and that for the families. Meanwhile, everything has become more expensive. Mr President, I will conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u319	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u320	Meanwhile, everything has become really more expensive: the petrol, the rents, the energy bill, you name it, shopping. People can't afford it and you haven't even considered making another cover proposal. Then how credible is it if you say it's painful?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u321	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u322	If you do not wish to examine other coverage proposals, I can only conclude that you want to do so. You're just deliberately taking away 400 million euros...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u323	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u324	...with families. That's really antisocial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u325	On the contrary, rising energy prices have got the full attention of the cabinet, and I am very keen to say this, and we are also working on a package to compensate for part of that price increase. We always look at measures that can provide support to families. So we have done so in recent years, in this cabinet period. Other wishes have been added at some point, such as paid parental leave. That came as a wish from Europe. I didn't have to come from Europe, but it came from Europe. We implemented that. Many parties also want to introduce it. It's been done, but it's not free. So that means you have to look for cover. Questions have been asked about the cover. There are always alternative coverages. The Chamber can always suggest that. That's the way it's supposed to be. But the cabinet has found a balance for this coverage and we also believe that this is an acceptable package if you look at all the measures taken together. At the same time, there are options in the answers to reduce the employment discount slightly. It's possible. Then it goes down with €10 and you can also cover the package. You can also increase the Aof premium even further. Those are trade-offs you have to make with each other. The cabinet has made this assessment and stands for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u326	I've got a weird feeling about this. I looked up the explanatory memorandum to the Parental Leave Act. We were there at the time, of course. It doesn't say that, so we have to conclude that Minister Koolmees apparently has said a sentence somewhere that provides extra cover. But then either this explanatory statement is incorrect or it was not complete. Let's say we can do this. Then that's how we can do it today. Then we say: the cover for this bill is wrong. Then the Secretary of State will immediately speak out a sentence in which that cover is present and then we will be out too. That's how we can fix it. It is either that or it was wrong at the time and then the Chamber was wrong. We voted against, by the way, so it doesn't matter to me, but you have to look at the whole thing. I have the feeling that if this had been in it at the time, my colleagues who voted for it would have come up with an amendment to amend it. So this can't be happening. I really want to have a clear story about this from the Secretary of State, unless he says, "If this is the way to go, I'm gonna add that sentence and we're gonna get it done."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u327	I repeat what I said earlier. The cost of leave amounts to 340 million in structural terms. You can choose to cover that out of one measure, but the cabinet did not. We have sought a balanced package for employers on the one hand and parents on the other. A large part of the package also ends up with parents, in the form of parental leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u328	I've always learned that when a lot of people say the same thing, there's wisdom in the crowd. I hear a lot of wisdom in this crowd, but that's a side note. My question is as follows. We were at the weight block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u329	Weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u330	Weighting. You mentioned a balanced package. That's the word of the evening. My sincere question to the Secretary of State, given the questions that I and my colleagues have asked about this package and about what was in the explanatory statement to the law we voted for, is: what was the time when we, as a Chamber, could interfere in the discussion on what is a balanced package?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u331	I can't answer that question exactly. There have been several measures. I hope you will forgive me for not knowing all the pleadings that have been dealt with in the Chamber. I don't know exactly how and where that was formulated. I will take back what has been exchanged in the debate and what is in the statement of this proposal. That's the knowledge I can share here with Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u332	The reason I'm asking is because this is the moment when we see total coverage. We'll find something. There are colleagues with alternatives, colleagues who co-operate and colleagues who have tabled amendments. We have just heard from colleagues from the outgoing coalition: that is the package that we have weighed. We also conclude today that it was not in the explanatory statement when we dealt with the first part, namely parental leave. At that time, as a Member of Parliament, I and my colleagues were unable to take a broader view of this. I don't find it in the spring note either. I understand that the Secretary of State may not be able to answer my question right now, but perhaps he will be able to do so in the second term. What was the time to weigh that? Because if there hasn't been another moment, then now is the time. Then now is the time to say: what do we think of balance and what are the alternatives? Mr Ceder has listened a bit, but what we are now getting back in what we call a debate is: we have decided somewhere and that is how it is; I find it difficult, but yes, it is. So my question is: what was the time when we could interfere? I think this is the time, so why don't we reconsider?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u333	Mrs Maatoug is right. This is the moment. In my view, all the possibilities for coverage, including from the parties here, are not necessarily impossible. I would say: it is important that we cover this, because we agreed on parental leave. We have made promises, including in terms of implementation. This is the third step in a set of measures to which we have already spent part of our money, namely parental leave. You have to do it properly. I feel responsible for that. But what's a decent way? There may also be alternatives to this. I'm not saying you couldn't. In fact, I will come to that in response to Mr Omtzigt, who said: in a moment you will pick up more than you need; that is also a bit weird. That's what I'm sharing. So I'm not here to pull through the most annoying measure. The point is that we have coverage for these proposals. This cabinet has a proposal for that. We'll discuss that in the Chamber. If you have other proposals, it is also up to you to discuss them in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u334	Finalizing, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u335	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I conclude that there is a great deal of technocratic talk about coverage. A very political choice is being made. On a formation table you're going to talk about execution again, because the execution costs require 750 million according to this cabinet. What we also see is that in the corona era we apparently didn't even have the money to arrange that poor ICT at UWV. I think it's a real shame. We make children pay for execution, while there are billions to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u336	Mr Omtzigt, unless the Secretary of State wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u337	I'm gonna distance myself from that, but that's obvious, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u338	I'd really just like to have a letter from the cabinet saying the whole package. Normally you just treat a package here, for example called "tax plan," and in it is sweet and sour mixed up. That's annoying and funny, but that's very well-balanced. Here the whole coalition says: there is a package. But that package's in the air somewhere. And none of us have any idea what the pros and cons are. If the Secretary of State asks if I have alternative cover, my answer is yes, I can turn him in. All cuts in this package are non-taxable benefits. So if you pay out 100 million less child benefit, you don't get less payroll tax. But the expenses are taxed benefits. Approximately 360 million is spent on parental leave. Then I'm gonna do it without that motion from the First Chamber that's gonna make him a lot more expensive and complicate everything. That's a tax-free allowance. This means in the Dutch system that about 40% of these returns in the form of additional payroll taxes. So if you pay $360 million, you're gonna get $100 million in taxes. This is an inevitability effect. The coalition is taking in-earning effects in its motions these days. In that package of 1.8 billion of the VVD there was a single item "income effects." This is a first-order earning effect. This isn't at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u339	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u340	Please come with the letter stating which package is here. Then we come up with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u341	There's a proposition here. We have already dealt with the other proposals in the Chamber. They've been hired, too. This is the only way we can talk about this proposal and the coverage of this proposal. We can talk about it; I understand that. But I cannot withdraw those other proposals from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u342	But now he's gonna be fun. There's a package. We are not told in advance that it is a package. This is pure tying, and tying is totally forbidden according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. You have one package of legislative proposals and you submit them. You do not say after the first package has been adopted: oh, there was a second part of the package that nobody here in the Chamber knew about. Yeah, still 77 people, but that's another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u343	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u344	That is why I quoted Minister Koolmees in the debate on parental leave. Everyone can weigh that up, but in the end those measures, which I myself thought were: if they had put them together at once, it would have been a package. In this case, some of the measures had to be taken, for example those relating to implementation. That was urgent. I also mentioned security and privacy issues in order to hack the UWV. So we had reason to think that we needed that quickly, but we also wanted to do so in a decent way. A balanced coverage has been sought for this, partly from employers and partly from parents. In the total sum, this is more positive for parents over the entire cabinet period than before. We have also kept an eye on purchasing power every time, as with the child-related budget. It is therefore balanced, but we are very much discussing this proposal in the Chamber, in order to check with the Chamber whether we really should do that coverage for years in a row with this inflation, or not. You yourself raised very sharp questions about this. Those are legitimate questions; that is what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u345	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u346	We're about to get to the part about whether there's any cover in it. It's in, and we need to get it out; we'll figure it out. But I ask you a very fundamental question. A package is being presented here and not when we vote on the first part of that package. The coalition has boarded up the whole package and we can come up with something new here, so Minister Koolmees will come to the Chamber to explain where that package comes from. This is not how we can legislate. So is the Cabinet prepared to explain that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u347	I have tried to do so by saying that this measure is in the Chamber today. Other measures are more likely to be in the Chamber. In these measures there is coherence and also a balance, which is why we think it is necessary to defend it from the cabinet. In my view, this is not a matter of discontent with these measures at all, but of this particular measure. The other measures were different, and I understand that. That is why I say: if you had put that in one package, it would have been one package and we would have dealt with it in its entirety. That didn't happen. That is why we are discussing these proposals separately in the Chamber, but they do have a connection with each other. That is why we are discussing this proposal here today. That is why we have this debate. I didn't hear a party say, "I like doing this." So let's not pretend here. If we have better proposals for achieving that coverage, or for achieving it more quickly, as you do yourself, then we are always open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u348	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u349	No, sorry. I've had you interrupted three times at this point. We all have a second term, too. I suggest that the Secretary of State continues his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u350	Then I'll get to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u351	Mr. Chairman. I asked if we could get an explanation from the minister. Then I have a point of order towards the Presidium. You can submit a package here, and we do it here all the time, so let's not make that difficult. But the last moment you can tell us that there is a package is ten minutes before the vote on the first part of the package. 'Cause if you don't, you don't have a package. You cannot say to the Chamber "because you have consented to the law there, you must take all of this with you," if you have not told it at least in advance. Well, that's what's happening here. And for the rest, we have nothing to say about it. So I ask the Bureau whether this is the procedure and then the Bureau comes with a letter explaining whether we are going to deal with packages in this way. 'Cause we're all saying we want to finish...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u352	Mr. Ommzigt, I'm going to explain something to you. It has become a practice to put a question to the Bureau almost every parliamentary week. The Bureau does not make any political considerations. That is what is being done in this Chamber in plenary. If this Chamber wants a letter in plenary or if it wants to invite a member of the Board, it must be voted in plenary by the majority of the Chamber. These kind of questions don't belong at the Bureau. I say this because it is a practice that we see too often now, and the Bureau cannot do anything with it, because it is a neutral, day-to-day administration of the Chamber, which cannot take political decisions. Having said that, I suggest that the Secretary of State continues his speech. If you would like to comment on the package, so that part, you can take it with you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u353	But, Mr President, if there is a package before us, will we not do so in the second term, after the tabling of motions? Then the cabinet should indicate in a letter: this is the package; this is the consideration. And then you have a debate about it. I really don't get the order of the day. The order is really like this. First: we have a package, Room; what do you think and want to make changes? Well, then the opposition is a little more critical than the coalition. That is not so exciting at all; that happens here often. But then put that package out there. Now we have to ask at the end what the package is. Then I want to hear from the Minister: well, this was the package and we see it in conjunction. Or I'd like a letter on that in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u354	Okay, well, good. Then your order proposal is that you want the Minister of Social Affairs to be invited. Then I have to ask the Chamber if she thinks that the Minister for Social Affairs should be invited. I would like to point out again that it is up to the cabinet to decide on the delegation to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u355	Mr President, as far as I am concerned, the Minister does not need to come now. I fully understand that the Secretary of State cannot do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u356	Your order proposal is therefore to suspend the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u357	My point of order is that I support Mr Omtzigt, who wants Minister Koolmees to explain this, but that I fully understand it, from my fellow human side, which I try to show a little more often when it happens later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u358	I would like to hear the opinion of the other groups, but I just want to hear whether you support the order proposal, yes or no. No text and explanation, because it takes too much time. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u359	We'd like the bill to be withdrawn, but I think it's a good point. It is a new one and I would therefore like the Minister to go to the Chamber and stop this debate until then. So it doesn't have to be today; it can be at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u360	Yes, the Minister must come to the Chamber to explain and reconstruct this, because I am standing here as an opposition chamber member in my shirt. I'm just getting shirtted, not only by this government, but also by coalition parties who say it's a done deal. I have to find out during this debate. I think it's outrageous. This really needs to be explained, so support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u361	With Mr Van Baarle's words, I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u362	I certainly agree with Mr Van Baarle. This is where the House of Representatives is prevented from doing its democratic work. I hope, and I assume, that the coalition parties are also in favour of simply letting the Chamber do its democratic work, so support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u363	I object a little to the high tone on which it is pretended that there is a hint of mystery over it. That's just not true. On 12 April we had a legislative consultation on that Law paid parental leave. There was just plain and bare talk about the cover. A number of members of the Chamber specifically asked for this. Minister Koolmees simply replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u364	Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u365	I understand I'm talking too long. It is in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal before us today, on which everyone could have contributed to the report. Not everyone has done that, and they're allowed to do that, but don't hang up on me. This Secretary of State is standing here, I won't give it a qualification to take responsibility for it. He's doing well, I was gonna say. It doesn't matter at all to pretend now that Minister Koolmees has to come here. Everyone can read their pieces, participate in debates, participate in written consultations. Then do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u366	It is clear that you do not support the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u367	I have just made it clear in my interruption that at least it was not clear to me that it was a complete package. That in the explanatory memorandum accompanying that proposal apparently does not correspond to the coverage at the time... There was an oral addition. I think it is a good thing that we are going to deepen that really well, so support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u368	No support for the proposal. Secretary of State Wiersma is in the process of responding. We can move on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u369	We can find some of this. You can find it ugly. You can vote against it. You can suggest alternative cover. But it is in the documents and it was explained orally last time, so no support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u370	Support for the proposal and, hopefully, a clarification on the course of events, perhaps in the second term or after suspension and withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u371	I think we can continue with the answer. Then it can be clarified. If there is a need for more clarity, it is up to the Secretary of State to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u372	I note that the majority of the Chamber wants the debate to continue. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the continuation of his speech. No, Mr. Van Baarle, we're not going through with the substance here. If that's what you want, you'll do it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u373	I want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u374	No, we're not gonna do that anymore. Is it even a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u375	Well, my point of order is that in his first term, the Secretary of State will go into this further and we will be able to question him in the first period. I think it is essential to be able to reconstruct who knew what about the famous package at what time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u376	This is not a point of order, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u377	This is a point of order. You suggested doing it in second term. I would like to have the debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u378	I think this question has been asked 12 times. The Secretary of State has answered it 12 times. You do not agree with that answer in substance. You will be able to repeat that in the second term. Again, this is not a point of order. The Secretary of State continues his speech. You should study the Rules of Procedure carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u379	Why is this not a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u380	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u381	I would like to do my best to answer the questions of the Chamber as well as possible. I have also tried to do this on the specific measure. The cabinet believes that measures should always be properly covered on their own budget. That's what happened here. The bill serves that purpose. Questions have rightly been asked as to why this additional amount of child benefit is not excluded from this legislative proposal. Among other things, Mr Van Baarle asked that question. The additional child benefit on top of the double child benefit is mentioned as a separate amount in the law with its own indexation provision. What Mr Van Baarle says is therefore legal. The cabinet has not considered excluding this amount from indexing. The exclusion of the indexation of the amount raises a question of coverage of 0.83 million, €830,000 per year. A solution will then have to be found. Then I come to the question of whether it is unfair that welfare parents with a care-intensive child cannot claim the amount of child benefit. Several members have requested that. I understand that question, also that it is perceived as unjust. The additional annual amount of family allowances is intended for single-earner households with a child living at home who needs intensive care. The reason for this support is that, as a result of tax measures to increase female employment rates and economic independence, disposable income often lags behind two earners and single parents. As I said earlier, there is a possibility of adapting that in this bill. Then I come to Mrs Beuker's question of D66: can you inform the Chamber of any deviations from the estimated indexing? Family allowances are indexed twice a year. At those moments we can inform the Chamber of the deviation between the actual indexation and the estimated indexation. I can promise. Then I'm at the end of the block about the bill. Then I come to the support of families and the income effects. I have already said that we are also seeing this measure in the light of important previous measures. As of 1 January 2019, child benefit has been structurally increased by 250 million. As of 1 January 2020, almost 500 million extra has been added to the child-related budget. The cabinet increased the child-related budget from the third child as of 1 January 2021. That's $150 million extra invested in it. For 2022 we have raised the child-related budget again, by €70. These resources, together with the resources already made available by the cabinet, come to the households that need it most, namely families with multiple children. It is also these families that have the greatest risks of poverty. Since the Chamber is asking a lot of questions, I give a number of examples. The parents in the assistance or with WML with two children, for example 6 and 11, advance €130 through the policy of the cabinet over the past years. They received €4.088 in 2018 and are expected to receive €4.627 in 2024 according to the current estimate. Without government policy, that would be a small €4,500. That's how I get to €130. In other examples, too, we see this same perspective. Then it is still a consideration of whether you think that is fair or not, but given the policies of recent years, we have seen that as bearable. To sum up, the overall package of investments made by the cabinet in recent years has a structural positive effect on the income of families with children. Then I come to Mr Van Baarle's question: why does the government find it acceptable to take a measure that increases the difference between rich and poor? On this point, I would like to say that this measure should not be considered in isolation. I have just said that we have made a major effort in recent years to reduce the burden on households and to provide additional support for households with children. This is demonstrated, among other things, by the transfer of the coalition agreement by the CPB. I won't tire you with all kinds of gini coefficients, but the drop that was in it was 2.7%. Where non-indexing of family allowances is detrimental to households with children, this should be seen in the perspective of the entire government period. I just explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u382	From the perspective of the entire reign, the number of children growing up in poverty has increased, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u383	I come so extensively to child poverty, if Mr Kwint will allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u384	Oh, the income effects of child benefit seemed logical to me, but I'll get back to you in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u385	That's good. I shall come back to that in great detail, and I would like to say a few things about it. Then there was a question from Mr Stoffer. He asked about child regulation whether it was not some sort of mop policy. The cabinet takes stock of the situation every year. It's not like we do that every four years and think we're gonna be okay. We look at that broader purchasing power picture every year. On this basis, for example, the child-related budget has been increased and several measures have been taken to repair purchasing power for vulnerable groups by 2022. For another part, many questions are addressed to a new cabinet, which has to set out new lines for this. That was this block. Then I come to child poverty. Many questions have rightly been asked about this. There was also a reference to the letter I sent on this matter last Monday. We don't do that for nothing, because child poverty is really a big problem in the Netherlands. The cabinet has an eye for that, too. The cabinet has committed itself to the goal of halve the number of children who grow up in poverty for a reason. This is reported every two years. We keep the Chamber informed of the progress, but we realise very well, and I realize that it is never going fast enough. Every day that a child lives longer in a difficult situation, in poverty, is one day too much. Mr. Chairman. Since 2015, we have seen a slight drop in the number of children in poverty. As a disclaimer, as far as we can tell. In 2019, 251,000 children, 7.8%: 7,000 more than in the previous year. In 2015, it was 9.2%. The cabinet realizes that every child living in poverty is one too many. There's progress, but of course it's never fast enough. That is why we have invested in recent years, for example, in child support and the child-related budget. By the way, since 2017, municipalities have been given an additional structural amount of 85 million per year to support children who grow up in poverty and to provide additional help to accommodate children in poor families.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u386	Under the European definition, poverty is even increasing slightly. According to this government, there is no question of halving poverty. We go from 9% to 7%, but I would add that that is with the wrong definition. As we go from 9% to 7%, which is actually 11% or 12%, according to the Nibud, among other things, the number is increasing, because they are hundreds of thousands of children. In that context, we are going to cut back on child schemes. The government does not achieve the goal of halve child poverty, while unemployment is low. It's not like people aren't working. Where exactly is the logic here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u387	Child benefit and the child-related budget are important tools for combating poverty. Mr Omtzigt is right about that. That is why I am committed to what I have just said, namely that there has been considerable investment in this in recent years. We can discuss whether it is enough, but that is the case. That is why I mentioned the increase in family allowances and the child-related budget. With effect from 2022, the outgoing cabinet will also spend an additional 55 million on the child-related budget. This reduces the non-indexation of child benefit. If that's enough, I'll leave it to the Chamber, but it's not the only thing we do. That's why I'm attached to it. The 85 million that municipalities receive in structural terms is also very necessary, and it is also intended to accommodate children and to help them get out of poverty with the family. We want to do that even better. That's where we have ambitions too. They don't go fast enough. I shall now come to the points that Mr Omtzigt mentioned about this, for example the concept, the definition, and also the committee that we would like to have for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u388	I conclude that the cabinet does not achieve its own goals. I did not add the calculations on child benefit in Germany for nothing. For the family he mentioned himself, that is twice €219, €440 per month. The same family gets more than €5,000 in Germany. In Flanders it is €180 and therefore €360 per month. For this family this is €4,100 to €4,200, but they also get a number of income-related schemes on top of that. These are our neighbouring countries with a similar level of prosperity, countries with which we would like to compare a little. I'm not going to bring up Denmark or Sweden, because then he really won't have a chance, I can assure you. Those countries are a little better at that. We score badly with children in poverty. In this context, we are attracting billions of dollars for everything, for electrification, cars and all kinds of tax cuts, but not for... We even think it is necessary to cut child support. That's about the cabinet's priority and I'm going to sum it up about right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u389	Mr Omtzigt says that he thinks his own summary is correct. It seems to me in itself correct that he thinks so. I just said something else, but he's... Child poverty is never fast enough for me either. So I agree with him on that point. In that context, it is also good to say what is already being done. This support cannot just wait for another new measure. There's a reason we put that ambition together. We also want to strengthen cooperation between the parties. We want to avoid money worries that way. For example, we have united with the organisation to be able to reach even more children in poverty funded next year. An action plan is being worked on. That's also about prevention. We have strong out of poverty. We focus on experience workers who have also been in that situation. They advise the municipalities and also us to do so. Together with VWS and OCW, we have the Equal Opportunities Alliance to tackle child poverty. Is that all enough? No, that's not all enough. But it's not like nothing's gonna happen. It's not like it's the intention not to do anything about it. I do not want to say that either, because I attach great importance to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u390	I'm gonna keep going at this point anyway. My question to the Secretary of State is: does non-indexing of child benefit have a negative effect on the income of families?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u391	I don't have the answer to that question about the effects. I don't know how this is gonna work out right now. I don't have a picture of that. We know the effects on incomes, but we also know that a household income consists of more than just child benefit. If you look at the total income, the cabinet thinks it should be in balance. We also look at it every year, and otherwise we adapt it, for example by increasing the child-related budget, like this year. We do that, despite the fact that the Cabinet is a missionary. We really think it is important to keep that balance. But how specifically this, isolated, affects poverty, I can't predict.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u392	Then I'm going to go to the answers to our Parliamentary questions. There it is written that the impact on all income groups.............................................................................................................................................................. That's what the Secretary of State writes to the Chamber. I can only conclude that this is a minus for families and especially for low-income families. This goes directly against what the Secretary of State said to Mr Omtzigt. Because he said it's his ambition to help those kids. We are opening up a whole package of measures, but we are not going to index. I don't understand the position of the Secretary of State in this matter, because he's cutting back on... He doesn't index child support. That has a negative effect and then he says: I think it is very important that we do something about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u393	Your point is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u394	The point is certainly clear, and that is why I said that if it is only child benefit and you are not looking at anything else, so it is not the income, the assistance, the extra schemes of municipalities, the 85 million that I just mentioned and the child-related budget, there will be an effect. So there's that effect when you look purely at child support, but I can't pinpoint that effect. I can pinpoint the effect on households as a whole, but it's a much wider package than just child benefit. Parents do not only receive child benefit in their accounts. They're gonna get a lot more. For example, measures have been taken in connection with the reduction in working hours. We've increased the child-related budget. A number of measures have therefore been taken. I do not think that it is possible for me to take this with me to look at it in isolation and say: that is what makes parents so bad. Just to avoid that, we are taking measures, as in August, for Princess' Day. On average, fortunately, that worked well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u395	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u396	If you would like to do more, it is up to a new cabinet, as the cabinet has rightly said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u397	Finalizing, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u398	But if there is uncertainty and we do not know exactly what it does for households, families, with low income, is the risk not too great? That doesn't fit in with the ambitions the Secretary of State calls it. He said, "I want to deal with this poverty." But we don't know exactly what the effect of this is. Because the uncertainty for those children and those parents is already so great, I think it is wise to say: at least we are not going to take it away from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u399	That position is clear. I would also like us to know everything. I do not know exactly what extra investment in the child-related budget will yield. I don't know exactly what parental leave does, but I think it's important that we do it. That's also a consideration to do. In this case, we are not looking at child benefit in isolation, but in the wider package. I am referring to the last few years, the total households that we are talking about here and who we want to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u400	I would like to ask you something along the lines of these questions. The written input contained good questions from the SGP colleagues about a weighting previously made, namely that of the freezing of the child-related budget in 2019. Then the missionary cabinet concluded that the 0.0 income effects had negative consequences and that therefore you should not freeze. Now we see -0.1, a negative income effect. I'm getting a completely different answer on the weighting of those income effects. My question is: what has changed in the weighting from one moment to another? And why do we suddenly interpret it differently? What happened in that intervening year with the weighting of income effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u401	The exact weighting will always be made on the basis of the proposals before us. In this case, there is a desire to achieve parental leave. That also affects families and children. That is also a very important period for them. If we look at what the cabinet has done in recent years, and how that has worked out on balance, including in child benefit, which is higher than it was in 2017, with this proposal too, we find that balanced. Then you can say: then I find that -0.1 too little. I understand that, especially if you are strongly against it, as I heard you in this debate. But in the trade-off, the cabinet has chosen to submit this, otherwise we would not have had it here, and to find this also justifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u402	So when the effects were zero, it wasn't okay. When the effects were -0.1, that was okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u403	Another weighing has been made. I leave the conclusion to Mrs Maatoug. But that's what I was just trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u404	In my opinion, the conclusion is very simple: when this cabinet was missionary, it cared about children, but when it became missionary, it was okay to cut back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u405	Then I repeat that during this period the cabinet has invested extra in supporting families with children. This has also benefited children living in poverty. We have invested extra in the fight against poverty, for example through the municipalities. I also mentioned all the 85 million structuralally. Then you're thinking, "Whatever." But that really means a lot more room at municipal level to help parents and families who are vulnerable and who are having a hard time. But that's not enough, like I said. I shall now turn to Mr Omtzigt's definition question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u406	That it's not enough, we share. Then I'd say this is a good time to do something about it. Let me make this a little easier. The Secretary of State actually doesn't like it and the coalition doesn't really like it. I tabled an amendment to change that coverage. Can the Secretary of State take that into account immediately in his reply? Now get the money from the people who probably won't notice it, so the people with two tons and more. Then you can spare the parents who are now so worried about and the children who are now so worried. And then we can also invest in the ICT at UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u407	The cabinet's proposal is this. I leave the weighting of the proposal to the Chamber and its interpretation, if there are any alternatives. That will then be able to initiate the Chamber, with cover, as Mr Kwint does. But now we have to say that we have to do it in this way... We have tabled this proposal because we think it is a balanced proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u408	That the cabinet has put forward a proposal because it has submitted it, I believe. I am simply asking for a substantive assessment of why it is a better idea to get the money from children in poverty than from families with incomes above two tonnes. That is why I am asking for a pre-advisation and a pre-advisation in terms of content. So not "we don't recommend it because we've come up with something else ourselves," but just on the content: why is it a better idea to get the money from families who already live in poverty than from families who earn more than two tons a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u409	We are dealing here with the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Kwint. The question is whether the Secretary of State can give an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u410	I didn't. I'm gonna have to take a closer look. I want to make a proper and balanced assessment of that question, and I am not yet ready to do so. Amendments come in occasionally, so I do not have the overall overview ready and I do not want to make any mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u411	Then we will be judged, but that will be later in the debate, probably in the second term. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u412	Yes. Unifying the EU definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u413	Sorry, Mr. Omtzigt has a question. Still at this point, isn't it? 'Cause you've already started this interruption round. You're making things quite difficult for me as chairman, I'm just saying. But I'm flexible; it's about legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u414	I'm just making a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u415	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u416	If I just look at the statistics, I can see that the number of children at the food banks has increased from 32,000 to 37,000 between 2018 and 2020, the latest figures. Then we see that the number of children in the homeless shelter has increased from 7,100 to 8,500 in recent years, according to figures from the Children's Stamps Foundation. According to every indication of where children are being cared for, I can also give you a bunch of reports from the Children's Ombudswoman at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u417	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u418	Does the government think she's gonna get anywhere near half the child poverty if she keeps going like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u419	Let me say what I said just now, namely that the ambition is to halve that poverty. We are putting all kinds of measures in place. Like Mr Omtzigt, I also note that this is not enough and that it is never fast enough. I understand and support his questions and above all his encouragement. It's not like we're not doing anything about it. In fact, it's our commitment. I have already mentioned the examples: together with organisations, with the Equal Opportunities Alliance, with the municipalities, with additional opportunities for municipalities to support people. That's important, and that's why we do it. I said it's not enough. I think that is a justified point. It could also be a point that gets more attention in a subsequent cabinet. We also have a committee debate with this Chamber in November on debt and poverty. I look forward to conducting the debate there again, but also further and deeper. Mr. Chairman. I will now turn to Mr Omtzig's question on how to standardise the EU definition of poverty. That's a good question. Poverty is complex and cannot be summed up in one figure. There are attempts to do so, we want to do so, but there are multiple poverty definitions and related figures. Each has its own added value and its own limitations. The Dutch CBS definition looks at the level of household income. If this is below the so-called low-income threshold, a family is at risk of poverty. This definition is well suited to make comparisons over years and also to assess whether a family can survive. A definition is also used in Europe, as Mr Omtzigt said, which measures the number of people on relatively low incomes compared to average income. The result is mainly determined by the imbalance in the distribution of income, the inequality. The disadvantage is that the relative limit also has a number of implications. If everyone's income in the Netherlands doubles, poverty does not fall according to this criterion. It is precisely the co-existence of the two definitions that is important in order to be able to view the problem of poverty in a broad sense. Moreover, the European figures on poverty in the Netherlands are available. The European Commission's proposal is to include a report on poverty rates in the process of the European Semester, the country reports. The Chamber will be informed. I would also like to say that we will be reporting both numbers in future, so that we can look at the coherence and make the comparison and ask the Chamber in all the sharpest possible questions. So thank you for that question. I'm at the end of child poverty with this. The block of child poverty, unfortunately, not child poverty. We are going to the block on surplus and inflation, on which many questions, justified questions, have been asked by the Chamber. We are grateful to Mr Omtzigt, who has asked very sharp questions about this. In this debate, many parties asked the cabinet: "Are you going to raise too much money? If inflation is going to prove to be higher than what has been included in this proposal so far, should we not change it and at least prevent us from getting more than we need?" I have to agree with the Chamber. You spoke about the desirability of the legislative proposal. I don't think anyone thinks this is the best proposal ever made in the Chamber. The money has to be collected for cover. I feel that as my responsibility. But that does not mean that, especially now that it is likely that inflation is higher than we expected, any additional money should be collected. I don't have that opinion. I can therefore imagine that the Court would request that only the amount required to cover the proposal be collected. I understand that wish and I can imagine it. Let me look at the questions that have been asked about this and which I have answered by Mrs Tielen of the VVD and Mrs Palland of the CDA, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u420	Mr De Jong has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u421	The Secretary of State says that he can well imagine that the additional amounts collected or not are collected or go directly to the child benefit. Does that mean you're taking over? Are you saying I'm gonna do that, I'm gonna send you a letter of amendment? Are you going to do that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u422	I am prepared to say that I am prepared to see how we could anchor this in this bill, unless the Chamber itself makes proposals for it with amendments. That is, of course, another option. I shall also come to the amendments in the second term. Then we can make up for that consideration, but I have heard the call from the Chamber and I understand that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u423	Okay, so you're open to it. But do you come up with a concrete proposal yourself? Or are you saying that an amendment must be tabled from the Chamber? Of course, this has already been submitted. Are you gonna take over or are you gonna say it's in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u424	It's in the Chamber, of course. Of course. I like to carry out orders from the Chamber. I feel like there's an assignment in here, but then we need to know exactly what that assignment is. That seems important to me, because we are making proper legislation. On the basis of an interpretation from me of what the Chamber is asking, it seems unwise to send a letter of amendment. Mr Omtzigt said that he might be tabling an amendment himself. I think, having heard the debate, that parties can decide in the second term whether this is desirable. Then the cabinet will indicate how we can respond to that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u425	In order to avoid misunderstandings, no amendment has yet been tabled on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u426	No, that's why. It could be that parties are planning to do so. It's circulating. Look, that's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u427	Okay. The Secretary of State will continue his speech unless Mr Van Baarle has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u428	Yes, in line with the fact that non-indexation would yield more because of higher inflation. There is talk in the note of the report about a remainder. That is beyond the higher inflation that would exist. Does the Secretary of State share the view and is it true that, without this higher inflation, the non-indexation of the 400 million referred to for the implementation organizations is already more than necessary? If that's true, what exactly is that surplus used for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u429	I understand that question. The indexing of family allowances is done two times a year. It's calculated by the CPB. As has already been said, inflation appears to be higher than expected at the time of the drafting of this bill. That's still uncertain. That is why it is still uncertain whether it will produce more than what I have just said. So I cannot put it into practice, nor can I anticipate that potential windfall, but I do understand the wishes of the Chamber. Then specifically on that cover, 9 million within the budgetary horizon. I think that is what Mr Van Baarle is referring to. It is intended for other purposes, including outside the SZW budget. Those funds have already been taken into account by Princess Day and the APB in the pictures of Finance. So those resources are not by using SZW. They are in the total coverage that is calculated and allocated to the different budgets by Princess Day, in this case also to Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u430	So the remainder referred to in the note on the report is a sum of 9 million. So we have that beyond the story that it would yield more because of the higher inflation already as a surplus, in addition to what we need to cover for implementing measures. And that's what the government now nails down on all other things. So 9 million that we don't actually have to take away from parents, the government now spends on all projects. What projects are these?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u431	No. Nor can I overlook the entire budget of finance here. Here, a combination of measures that required coverage has been made. I already mentioned parental leave. They found cover for that, too. There is a slight cover and that is already included in the APB and the budgets. So it's in the treasury. I understand that Mr Van Baarle says: how is that possible? If you put all those numbers together, that coverage is round with the 9 million, which is already included in the Finance budget. So it's not a game that I have at my disposal to come up with something for each other. I was thinking, "Hey, how is that possible?" That's what counts for that whole period. In combination with parental leave, this covers the total amount. I admit that you said just now that we had this treatment, that there was an amount for it and that it would have been clearer if we had all done so at the same time. Perhaps the weighting per proposal would have been different. In this case, the various measures have been placed in the Chamber in this way, and this includes coverage. In this case there is also a cover that has landed in the state treasury at Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u432	Finishing at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u433	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I have a political judgment on this. The political view is that I find it unacceptable that we should already not index family allowances and b that we are already doing so more than we need to, that there is cover. So we take even more away from parents than is initially necessary. I'm not an expert on budgets. Could I ask the Secretary of State whether he is sending us a letter about the story of this cover-up, exactly how much is being covered, what is that amount and where it is going? I can think of a lot of beautiful destinations for myself that benefit those parents, things that we can do better with that amount of 9 million than let it flow to the treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u434	I understand. I hope, by the way, that this is partly hypothetical when we look at what we need to pick this up. Hopefully it doesn't have to be all those years that we're planning to do now because of the high inflation rate. So underneath that disclaimer. I have done my best to explain the technical story quite well, but I will do an extra check on those figures so that you have it completely and I am sure that it is complete. I understand your question. Sometimes finances aren't that easy to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u435	Are you at the end of your term or do you have one last block? Were you ready for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u436	No, I'm at the end of my term. If I may, I will respond to the amendments in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u437	Thank you. I propose that we proceed with the second term of office. I call Mr Kwint on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u438	What a total and bizarre mockery this debate. I've rarely seen such a mess. Thickly in the time of the cabinet there is still a cut through which, of course, should just lie on a negotiating table. Questions are asked and no one can explain who it is, because everyone is already expelled or has another function or a new spokesperson or is new in the Chamber. No one was there and no one knows about it. Meanwhile, parents pay the bill. I find it totally and completely unacceptable. I really don't believe that these four parties are going to end up with all these big words about the new governance culture, because it is a complete mockery! Thank you for the critical questions from the coalition to the Secretary of State. That has helped the debate very much! Well, then there are some motions. I am also curious whether I will receive a pre-advisation in the second term or a pre-advisation, because the amendment has been there for quite some time. The motions! It was about the incomes and salaries of MPs and directors. I would now like to turn it into the "motion Performance Reward." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends not to index the child benefit in 2022, 2023 and in part over 2024 in order to strengthen implementing organisations;]] [[considers that, as long as family allowances are not indexed, the salaries of members of parliament and directors should not be indexed;]] [[refers to the salary of Members of Parliament not to be indexed in 2022, 2023 and partly to 2024;]] [[invites the Cabinet also not to index the remuneration of directors during that period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35845-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u439	Two more motions on something that I do not think I have had an answer to, unless I have missed it; that happens sometimes. That's about the situation at the SVB. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the standard fine at the Sociale Verzekeringsbank (Sociale Verzekeringsbank) is half of the amount that people have received too much of child benefit, for example;]] [[Whereas the level of these fines may cause people to get even deeper into the financial problems;]] [[calls on the Government to significantly reduce the standard fine in the SVB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35845-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u440	And about the children's removal the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parents are required to report to the Social Insurance Bank (SVB) within four weeks in the event of their child's removal;]] [[Whereas, in the event of such a very serious event, parents are not always able to make their own reference, with all the financial consequences thereof;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for the authorities themselves to report to the SVB in the case of children's removals to relieve the burden on parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35845-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u441	Did I mention this is an incredible mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u442	Thank you for your input. Would you mind giving the motions to the clerk? The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Dijk, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, what a sad evening! A sad evening about a very sad proposal, at a time when we need to fight a poverty crisis. If these are the omens of how we deal with each other in the Chamber, then that doesn't cheer me up either. There is indeed a lot of talk about a new administrative culture, about how we speak openly about what we want together. I'm sitting here tonight, if my eyes aren't cheating on me, at a launch of a right-hand Rutte III. I wish the four parties a lot of success with that, but know, if it continues in this way, that it will be in this house... Mrs Tielen said a few times "here are big words spoken!" Yeah, they're spoken here because I mean them, and because it's about a very large group of parents, children and people living in poverty, over a million. It hits me every day. I think we're all in touch with them. I think it is my job here as a representative of the people to be a voice for them; to be happy with many others. So those big words are serious. They're never meant to be personal. They're about policy. In this case, they are about very bad policies. I call once again on the four parties involved in the launch of Rutte III: think again; how are we going to conduct politics in the coming years? I understand that it may be too politically difficult to do so tonight, but I would advise: think again over the next few days. You're working on the formation. We are talking about billions of dollars to dampen the energy bill a little bit. This is about 100 million. We shouldn't do this to parents and children. So think carefully, keep the bill on and come back to that in a few weeks. Soon we will be discussing the budget. Perhaps there will be a solution. Again, think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u444	Thank you for your input. I call Mr Van Baarle on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u445	Mr. Chairman. Parents in the Netherlands are really the victims today. They have to watch how family allowances are cut over the next few years. We have seen how the situation in this house is, how coalition parties sometimes support this bill with the greatest possible effort, and that is a great shame. What is also a great shame to me is that I feel really wronged by a cabinet and by coalition parties because they refer to a package, to agreements that I, as a Member of Parliament, know nothing about, simply do not know anything about. It refers to a clause in a debate where it has been said that this will be partly regulated by family allowances, from which we cannot even conclude that there will be a non-indexation of family allowances in the future. Minister Koolmees states that this is the result of coalition agreements. I am therefore not sufficiently informed as a Member of Parliament about how this bill was covered at the time. In addition, the coalition parties knew more than one member of the opposition. That's a real shame. That's a real shame. As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't add up to the new governance relationships we should have in this house. It is a real shame that this was apparently a done deal, which coalition parties knew about and I as an opposition chamber member did not. Mr. Chairman. It is also strange to refer to the proposal on parental leave, in which there is no mention of investing in implementation, and to suddenly pretend that there is a connection with this bill. The coverage for parental leave is called neatly: the Aof, the IACK, 360 million. That adds up nicely. That's all it takes. What's the relationship with what we're discussing today? It really is unclear to me what the relationship is. So I'm gonna ask for a second-term reconstruction of the Secretary of State. When did parties in this house know that this would happen and which parties knew when this would happen? Who's been discussed with? When? Are we going to turn it into a tradition to say in subsidiaries that this kind of big scheme is being cut short? I think it's really unacceptable! Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the bill "non-indexting of the basic child benefit amount and the additional amount of child benefit in the General Child Benefit Act for the years 2022, 2023 and partly 2024' and to increase other coverage for the improvement measures for implementing organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one in ten children live in poverty in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the note following the report shows that non-indexing of family allowances in 2022, 2023 and in part in 2024 causes the greatest negative income effect for families in the assistance or low-income families;]] [[Whereas the Government indicates that there is no information on the effect of not or partially indexing child benefit in the period 2022-2024 on the number of families with children at risk of poverty;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor and report to the Chamber on the actual impact of the measures in the bill on child poverty and low incomes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35845-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35845-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u446	It remains for me to say that this is a bad bill and that the government should be ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u447	Thank you for your input. Would you also give your motions to the clerk? Then I announce Mrs Maatoug, who will be speaking on behalf of GroenLinks for her second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u448	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I said crazy, "I hope it's a joke," but I feel like I woke up in a nightmare. We have a debate in which we all agree, but we are in this reality. This reality can be different. There's a different way to weigh it. In the introduction of colleagues from the outgoing coalition group I hear a struggle and a look back at a trade-off. I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party: please think. Is this what we want to do now? Was this the right weighting? Because in this house and in our democracy, we learn from each other in debates. Sometimes you make decisions, call it a "package" or something else, and you think: I shouldn't have done that. Then you can say, "We're gonna stop doing that." That is what we are doing with all the other proposals during this period. All the other problems that we also consider very important, we lay down on the formation table. We are at a time when there are billions to be spent, where there is plenty of room and where the cabinet is watching this week how it can help families with the bills. Then let us not make cuts in family allowances. Finally, Mr President. In response to the Secretary of State, I asked a question: what would have been the right time for us to have the discussion about the weighting? The govern ment had no answer to that, so I hope that this question will be taken into account in the second term. I find that there is not much else to say about it. Silence, disappointment and shame are the only thing that dominates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u449	Thank you for your input. Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u450	Thank you, Mr President. This is often about a new administrative culture in the Chamber, about preventing families from getting into trouble, about not catching people on the basis of political action to say years later: if only we hadn't. But what we see now is just an example of old politics. The whole opposition is against it, but the coalition still chooses to push it through, actually without being able to explain why. That is very serious, because we are talking about a cut of EUR 400 million. That's a lot of money. It's being taken away from families. I hear a lot of colleagues say: I am very sorry, but I am going to support it anyway. But in the meantime, even the Secretary of State says that he has not even considered another concrete measure, another cover proposal or any other way of financing. That just means they wanted this from the beginning. They wanted to take the money away from the families, and they're doing it now. I hope this cabinet will think about this again and withdraw it, but I can see from the Secretary of State that he is not going to do so. That is very problematic, because we see that everything is only getting more expensive. We see that people don't come out anymore and that people have a lot of trouble getting around. They're getting caught in their wallet again. I am ashamed to see here as a Member of Parliament that it only goes on and that the coalition chooses to push it through. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u451	Thank you for your term. The next speaker was Mr Stoffer, on behalf of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u452	Mr. Chairman. JA21 and the SGP are parties that look constructively from the right side of the Chamber for proposals coming from the cabinet. But if you touch the family, the cornerstone of society, you don't have us. I say to the Secretary of State and to the parties that have formed a coalition and which are perhaps going to form again: if you get so much criticism from the left and the right of the Chamber, then I think you are doing something really wrong. So I'd say, pull this in; pull it back. It's fine if you want to strengthen the executive power of the government, but you don't do that over the back of families. That is not possible and we do not want it. We shall vote against it firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u453	Thank you for your input. The next speaker is Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just having second thoughts about how I'm gonna start. I'm a good listener. That's kind of my standard method. I like working with others. I like to go beyond my limits, or what do you call, about my ideals to watch with others how we move forward. I see debates in the Chamber as a way of trying on the one hand how the situation is, but on the other hand also to move forward. The word "new governance culture" is constantly mentioned, but that is something we must do with all of us. I wonder, therefore, what I have been thinking about during the first term of the Secretary of State, which Mr Van Dijk also called for, and why we are sitting here. Is that pure content, or is it the sub-sections to which reference is made? I don't think that's entirely right, but I understand. What is it? I don't have an answer to that yet. That's why I doubted how I'd start. I have heard many substantive objections, but I still say of them: the weighting we have made is not beautiful, but sometimes you just have to do things that are not beautiful; that is also part of taking responsibility in this house. Is it the trial? I can imagine. I can imagine that if you had a legislative consultation on 12 April, we'd be there with seven of us, I think, and something would come along, you'd think: okay, whatever; I'll find out. In my mind, that was clear, but I can imagine very well that that does not apply to everyone. I can also imagine that such a new explanatory statement does not make any sense. I can imagine all that. That's what I care about, and that's what I hope to do best. At the same time, I find it difficult to see how arguments are magnified, as I call them, and they are turned on with heavy words. Then I think about the people who watch at home. Some of those people will say: "It is indeed not a good proposal in substance. See, it's opposition to coalition again. What are they actually doing?" But I also think there are people who say, "What are they actually doing? Are they getting ahead with each other, or aren't they?" I just need to think about what I can do with that. Because once again, I stand for the responsibility we take. If we agree on the introduction of a leave, I am in favour of a cover and we are implementing it. I see I'm out of time. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply on how we are going to distribute those costs. We have also tabled a motion to hold the Secretary of State to not deploying that cover. I hope that we will perhaps make more and more progress towards the budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u455	Thank you. There is still an interruption by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u456	Yes, in the context of progress. I think I said what I thought of the debate. I don't need to repeat that. But since Mrs Tielen expresses the ambition to move forward, would she think it would be an idea to cover the money needed for the UWV by abolishing child benefit above two tonnes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u457	Mr Kwint also asked me this question in the first term. I had an answer to that. As SP and VVD, we really think differently about the way family allowances work. The child benefit is for all parents. So it's also something that all parents have to wear. We have talked a lot tonight about poor parents and children growing up in poverty. We have other arrangements for that. Let's take a look at that when we need to. I think the Secretary of State wrote a letter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u458	Thank you for your input and for this answer. The next speaker from the Chamber will be Mrs Van der Plas, if she needs it. I can see that it is, so she has the floor on behalf of the BoerCitizen Movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u459	Thank you. What is small for The Hague is great pain for many people in the country. We have said this many times in our election campaign, and tonight it has become very painfully clear to me that it is simply true. Here it is seen as small very, and a lot of people in the country are just going to experience this as great pain. So I too, like my colleagues in the Chamber, urge Mr Ceder, Mrs Palland, Mrs Tielen and Mrs Van Beuker to think very carefully about whether or not to proceed with the legislative proposal and to take it with them to their political groups. I have seen that all four of them have been defending this bill with pinched buttocks and grinding teeth. I have also seen the struggle, and certainly going through the debate. Mr Ceder was ready to go: it's just agreed with each other; that's how we decided it with the four of us and then we're going to do it. You have had to tell us this here, and I think you have done a good job for the group. So I sincerely hope that this bill will go off the table and that you will take it with you, and that you have also listened carefully to all the arguments and all the directions for resolution. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan daarmee afsluiten.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u460	Thank you for your input. The next speaker is Mrs Van Beuker. It will thus pronounce its second term on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u461	Thank you, Mr President. I stand here with a little bit of the same hesitation as Mrs Tielen. I have been a Member of Parliament for one and a half years now and I also believe that if we discuss a proposal with each other, we can differ on that and that the Chamber may be divided. I don't think that's much more than usual. That's why we're all in the Chamber, and that's why I became a representative of the people. Tonight was tough. There were some amendments, where I thought: oh, if there is an amendment, there may also be an opening to vote in favour of the legislative proposal afterwards. But it has become clear that the amendments are there but the bill is not going to make it. I still support the proposal as it stands. What I would like to emphasise is that D66 will continue to support proposals to combat poverty and families in poverty, but that we believe that there are better instruments than child benefit to help families in poverty. And as a Chamber, we wholeheartedly agree on that; at least I took it with me tonight. So I imagine we're going to think about how we're actually going to do something about all those children in poverty. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u462	Mrs Maatoug's gonna interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u463	I'm a night person, so my good ideas always come at the end of a night like this. I thought, "I know something we can do." What if you take all the good arguments that have been put forward in the debate today to the D66 Group and we say together in line with the SGP proposal: we are doing it next year, but we are simply taking out the cuts that are in the books for many years until 2024, in the self-made technocratic rules? And let's look at structural problems in the overall weighting of things at the formation table with that very beautiful vision piece you made together with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u464	I can imagine Mrs Maatoug coming up with this proposal. It was a bit earlier in the evening, so the brilliant ideas were there before. I think it is good to see what is actually going to be proposed and how the cabinet is going to react to it. I am always willing to go back to my group to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u465	Thank you for your input. The next speaker is Mr Omtzigt. Oh, sorry, no, I'm too fast. I'm sorry, Mr. Ommzigt, I forgot about Mrs. Palland. Accident. It wasn't political at all. I'm really neutral as chairman. This was just an omission on my part. Mrs. Palland, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u466	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A difficult evening for several reasons. A number of people have already referred to it. And yet... Mrs Tielen indicated that she has a listening attitude. The contribution of the Chamber has been heard. Suggestions have been exchanged. There are proposals, including from Mr Van Baarle. In the run-up to this meeting, Mr Omtzigt has rightly asked written questions that shed new light on the matter. I do not know whether this will be translated into an amendment, but if not, at least I will have a motion on the possible cover that we want to avoid together. Money that is not needed can still go to the indexing of family allowances. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legislative proposal on the non-indexation of the basic child benefit amount and the additional amount of child benefit in the General Children's Allowance Act for the years 2022, 2023 and in part over 2024 is justified as part of coverage for a package of measures for paid parental leave and investment in implementing organisations;]] [[Whereas the proposed non-indexation measure, including as a result of rising inflation, could ultimately lead to more revenue than estimated during the drafting of the legislative proposal, with uncertainty as to actual inflation in 2021 and beyond;]] [[calls on the Government to present a letter of amendment which includes the possibility of re-indexing the family allowances if and in so far as there is higher returns than estimated, so that there is no cover for the years 2022 and beyond,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Palland, Mr Tielen, Mr Van Beuker-Huijbregts and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35845-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u467	Mr. Chairman. There's a weird bill in front of it. We have not heard any substantive argument for it. According to his own secretary of state, the purpose of the cabinet was to halve child poverty. That didn't work. The number of children in the food banks is increasing, the number of children in the homeless care system is rising. Even according to the government's own definition, the number of children in poverty does not halve. And yet the child benefit is being cut. The child arrangements would have gone up. I show that they are higher in Flanders, Germany and other countries. The deal is only now coming out in full glory, unless someone had listened carefully during the legislative consultation on 12 April. It just needs to be put on the table like this. 100 million is needed for the implementation organisation. Less than 10 million of these are needed for child benefit. The rest has nothing to do with child benefit, but must be taken into account. There are billions of packages for companies. In fact, a minister was bought out to work for those companies. Purchasing power is falling with high economic growth. And the only cut we make is on child support. I can't hear any of the four parties explaining it here. I note for a moment that they simply forgot to take it with them in the Hermans motion, where there were just eight intensifications for 1.8 billion. Everyone just forgot to turn these back. I note that they forgot about it in the budget negotiations, where a billion-dollar package for the climate was discussed. But this one's just forgotten. So ordinary people with ordinary children are simply forgotten in all that decision-making. I note that CDA and Christian Union have forgotten that their election programme simply states that they want higher family allowances. And I note that the VVD and D66 have forgotten that they have written together a document that is a famous document that states that they want to halve poverty, specifically poverty among children. Well, that's not gonna happen if you lower the child support. So I don't see any reason for that. I believe that the four government parties will not get Rutte-IV on arguments in the long term in this way. You listen to the room and you think. I'm sure I'll come up with an amendment, but I'm not going to vote for the law. Forget it! If I don't get an answer to substantive arguments, that's it. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are no clear definitions of the minimum level of existence;]] [[Considers that it is very important for the security of life and for the fight against poverty to determine the minimum level of living for different groups of people (singles, families with and without children, students, people included in a Wlz institution) and then to base the policy on it;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the Nibud, to set up a commission setting standards for the minimum subsistence level including social participation, including the accessibility to which provision is required (such as the presence of an affordable home or travel allowance for commuting),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands uses many definitions of poverty interchangeably;]] [[noting that the figures give a distorted picture;]] [[calls on the government to use only the relative poverty definition used by all our neighbouring countries in all publications of the Dutch Government and its institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Kwint, Mr Maatoug, Mr Teunissen, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35845-17]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Kwint, Mr Teunissen, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35845-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u468	Thank you, Mr President. I have already indicated in the first term what the Christian Union stands for. I have also indicated that I have listened to the changes in ideas and that we are facing challenges, for example to tackle child poverty. Mr Van Dijk knows that we are motivated to do so and come forward with a legislative proposal. I have also heard that we are going to hit vulnerable children particularly hard because they normally receive double child benefit. We will therefore support Mr Van Baarle's amendment. Mr Omtzigt has also made a good point, namely that there is probably much more money left. We're gonna have to get that cover back to child support. Mrs Palland has tabled a motion for this, and I have co-signed it. From the opposition we have been told where it is extremely pinched. I would like to thank the opposition for that. I think this has been a valuable debate, giving cause for thought. I want to thank everyone here. As I said earlier, I think the considerations stand. Together, we face the great challenge of ensuring that families and children make progress, not only on paper but also in practice. That has been exchanged in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u469	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Is there a need for a suspension in order to obtain an opinion on the motions and amendments that have been tabled? I shall suspend the sitting until 12.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u470	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal concerning the non-indexation of the basic child benefit amount. We need the second term from the government. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who will also give an opinion on the three amendments tabled and the eight motions tabled. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u471	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Chamber for the intensive debate, in which much has changed and from which lessons can also be drawn. They were also appointed by the Chamber. I'm gonna go into a few more questions first. Then I come to the motions and then to the amendments. I promised to double-check the 9 million cover that Mr Van Baarle asked for. It's like I said, but in order to fully understand, I have to go through the whole equation. There is coherence, a balance, in that total coverage package by structurally saving as much on child benefit as on the IACK. This means that the savings in family allowances will have to rise structurally to 130 million, equivalent to the savings on the IACK. In the first four years, 9 million will be raised more than is strictly necessary for investment, intensification and implementation. As indicated above, this saving is already part of the total national budget. I hope I have answered the question, but I see that Mr Van Baarle still wants to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u472	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this exhibition. My friendly request is whether I could get this answer in writing. Frankly, I find it rather difficult to understand this story in this second term of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u473	As I say, it is also in the Acts of the debate. The fastest way is to find it there. But I will come back to you in a moment and give you a letter of amendment. I can see if we can fit another sleeve there. I can read it again, but first of all I would like to say that it can be done through the Acts. But it is therefore necessary to calculate the balance in the package on those two aspects. Mrs Maatoug asked about the three proposals. We have talked about this many times in this debate. I think it would have helped Mrs Maatoug, but it would have helped me too, if we had had that in one package and could have made the Chamber a total balance. In this case, it is three measures that have a coherence in the coverage that should be balanced. In various debates, for example, the Minister mentioned parental leave and the explanatory statement on the proposal we are discussing is a reference to what it sees. It is also in this debate to answer that. At the same time, I understand. We have already said 'yes' on two proposals in a majority and then this third party comes after it. That's the end piece. You could say the less cheerful ending. That's why I started saying that lessons have been learned. I think this is one of those lessons we learned. So it is true, but I can imagine that it would be wise to have these measures in one package at a time. That didn't happen here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u474	For the historiography, I think the Acts are very important, because you can just miss a subtlety. If I understand correctly, the answer is: the time to weigh it up was the legislative consultation in April, where the explanatory statement did not say: child benefit as cover, and where the Minister read out three sentences in his reply and thus said it orally. That was one moment to weigh. We missed that. Apologies. The other moment was this debate, in which the coalition indicates that the weighing moment has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u475	It is three different proposals that each had their own debate and their own weighting at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u476	I thought the debate was a debate to weigh up the 100 million on implementation. What was the time to be part of that total package weighing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u477	This bill states how we intend to cover this proposal. That is what we are having this debate on. We have had two other proposals, and we have seen that these are measures that stand alone and have therefore been dealt with in isolation in the Chamber. That is what I said: it was wiser to have it in one package with the knowledge of today. That didn't happen. They didn't choose that. I don't mean it as an excuse, but I wasn't there, was I? That's what I'm telling you about what happened there. There was also room in the Chamber to exchange views on whether or not these different proposals were desirable and how they should then be financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u478	Finishing at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u479	Finally. I had asked a question in the first period and the answer. My question was quite clear, namely: what was the time to weigh? The answer I'm getting now is there were several proposals. We discussed one proposal very clearly in the legislative consultation. The proposal on implementation costs has never been put forward as a proposal. We've never been able to discuss that cover. That has not been a debate. That's a weighting moment. We can find anything we want. From what we have now, we find ours. So I conclude very clearly that there was very little room to have this conversation with the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u480	Very briefly. That is quite different, because these questions were raised in the debate on parental leave. The Minister replied. I think he also outlined the dilemmas and the considerations, even in case you want a higher parental leave. Some of you referred to the Upper Chamber. That has led to trade-offs over the cover. I think he put that out in the open. To say that the Chamber could not in any way take part in that weighting is, in my opinion, incorrect, but I agree that it would have been clearer if you had discussed this in its entirety. That is certainly true, and that would have given us another debate here, a more balanced debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u481	Short, but a new question and not repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u482	I simply conclude that the Secretary of State's answer is not correct and is not true. That's what I'm attached to. I think Mrs Maatoug is doing the same because she has made a point of it quite rightly a few times now. It has been mentioned in a clause and we are only now finding out about the whole package. That's how it happened, and that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u483	Then I'll come to the motions. The motion-Kwint in part No. 11 partly asks the Chamber itself a question. We don't judge that. Partly it is a request to the cabinet and I will pass it on to BZK's colleague, who deals with the salaries of directors. I cannot give that judgment, and I do not therefore have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u484	Does "direction" mean that there will also be a response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs before the vote? I dare to vote on this motion without any pre-opinion, but I do not rule out the pre-advisation of any importance for some people present here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u485	If I have to appreciate the motion, it will be dissuaded. That's why I'm saying I think it's okay to transfer him to BZK. I would ask for an appreciation to be attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u486	The judgment is therefore dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u487	I didn't judge that. I guided it through, partly because it's a request to the Chamber and partly because I passed it on to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u488	That puts me in a dilemma again, because we need to have a judgment. But we can also live with the statement that there will be a ruling from the cabinet before the votes. Shall we make that appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u489	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u490	Then there's the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u491	The motion in part No. 12 calls on the government to significantly reduce the fine for infringements of SVB. I see this motion as... I'd also like to try to give him a ruling room, but that includes the following. I will test that with Mr Kwint. As the cabinet has recently announced, the cabinet is investigating breaches of the intelligence obligation to see whether a distinction is possible between mistakes made by people and intentional fraud. This also applies to those who can get a fine when. A substantial reduction for all offences is not obvious, because of course we do not want to let real fraudsters go free. If I can interpret the motion along that line, I can give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u492	Mr Kwint nods in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u493	I guess it's gonna mean something's gonna change in the standard penalty anyway, so there's gonna be a distinction in the standard penalty. Then I can live with that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u494	Yeah, that's very explicit. Think also of the concept of fraud and the broad discussion about it. There will also be an investigation on this very point this month. That's important. I think we understand each other on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u495	The motion in part No. 12 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u496	The motion in part No. Mr Kwint's 13 calls on the government to relieve the burden on parents when children are removed from the home and to report this as a government itself to the SVB. I understand that thought. These parents are experiencing something radical, as Mr Kwint rightly said. As a government, we consider it important to reduce the burden as much as possible. I am willing to examine, together with the SVB and other interested parties, whether there are opportunities to relieve parents and avoid fines. Then I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u497	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u498	Then we go to the motion-Van Baarle, the motion in part no. 14, requesting the repeal of the bill. I've been standing here all night and explaining why we think that's unwise. I have the impression that we do not agree on this, so unfortunately I have to advise against this motion. Then a new round with another motion by Mr Van Baarle, the motion in part No. 15. It invites the government to monitor and report to the Chamber on the actual impact of the measures in the bill on child poverty and low incomes. Of that, I'd say, Judge Room. The ambitions of child poverty are monitored. This is reported every two years. Part of this is the number of children at risk of poverty. This does not monitor the isolated effect of the legislative proposal, but rather the development of the risk of child poverty in the broad sense. It is important, however, that the CBS's poverty statistics do not appear until December of the following year. This will give us the figures for 2020 in December 2021. That'll give the motion judgment Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 16 of the members Palland, Tielen, Van Beuker-Huijbregts and Ceder. That motion calls on the Government to present a letter of amendment which includes the possibility of re-indexing child benefit if and in so far as it is higher than estimated, so that there is no cover for the years 2022 and beyond. I believe that this is in line with a broader call I have heard. We can give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u499	Mr Kwint has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u500	Yeah, more like our agendas. I think it's planned that we'll be voting on this bill the Tuesday after recess. It will not surprise you that this is not a date carved in stone for me, for I am not in a hurry with this law. Can the Minister give an indication of what it's going to look like? If this motion is adopted, he will work on a letter of amendment. Will it come to our room? How am I supposed to see that in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u501	As far as I'm concerned, it's coming as soon as possible. That will not be tomorrow morning, I think, but we want to do so quickly. I think that would be wise too, because that would allow the House to take that into account when considering the matter before the vote. We've got a fall recess in between, so that's part of it. So we have extra time to make up our mind. I will do my best to get that to the Chamber soon. When that will be exact, I dare not say here now. Then I come to the motion on part No. 17 by Mr Omtzigt. It invites the government, together with Nibud, to set up a committee to set standards for the minimum level of living, including social participation, including the accessibility to which provision is required, such as the presence of an affordable home or travel allowance for commuting. Here's what's going on. If I may interpret this motion according to the following line, I can give her judgment Chamber. During the APB, the Prime Minister promised that the cabinet would set up a committee to investigate the social minimum for different household types. The cabinet will take this up and will, of course, involve external experts and thus also the Nibud. However, setting standards for the minimum standard of living seems to suggest that the level of minimum benefits is directly linked to the study. There is a set system for the level of the social minimum. It's linked to the level of minimum wage. The committee can decide on the adequacy of the social minimum and can also comment on the systematic and the alternatives. But after that, it remains a political consideration whether the social minimum should actually be re-evaluated and whether the system should be adapted. Various considerations, such as participation in employment and social support for social security, have a role to play alongside security of existence. Along this line, I could give the motion judgment Chamber. I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u502	Mr. Ommzigt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u503	That is constructive, because I understand very well that if another amount comes out of this, it does not automatically follow that benefits or wml go up. I get that. Then all I have to worry about is that it goes along all the lines set out in the motion and that there may be consultation on that and, secondly, that it really is an external and independent committee. I would therefore like the order to be submitted to the Chamber as well as who it is. Because, of course, it's quite politically sensitive. So I'm saying we don't touch it like politicians until there's a report. If you can, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u504	If I say yes to that question, I don't quite know what I'm saying yes to. If Omtzigt really wants a good answer to that, I have to look at it, even because this was a commitment during the ABP. It doesn't seem weird to me that you think about the composition. But how exactly, when and when to consult in the Chamber and at what stage then, I dare not say here. I would, however, like to assure you that we will take this suggestion from Mr Omtzigt. Then he'll have to trust that I'm serious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u505	Otherwise, I'll come back to that. Perhaps it can be in the letter which still follows the amendments in any case. But the intention is that there should be a proper degree of independence in the committee and that the good groups should be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u506	I believe that these principles are clear. I think they're important, too. Along the line I said, the motion can get judgment Chamber. I'll pass on the specific request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u507	This social participation is important, so that it was not a minimum. But that's in line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u508	And thank you for the understanding that there is, of course, some political side to this. That's what Mr Omtzigt said. So we're trying to take it one step further. Let's do it with good courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u509	Then I'd love to hear it. I forgot to mention that Sylvana Simons is also under the motions in part Nos. 17 and 18 should have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u510	It'll be registered. I take this commitment in such a way that we will have another judgment on the motion on item No. 11 by Mr Kwint. Perhaps Mr Omtzigt's letter on that assessment could also deal with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u511	Yes. There are people listening who are going to do that, so let's hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u512	Thank you. Then the motion to part No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u513	That's the last motion I have. This is also a motion from Mr Omtzigt. In this motion, the government is asked to use only the definition of relative poverty that our neighbouring countries already use in all the publications of the Dutch government and institutions. We discussed this briefly in the debate. Poverty is complex and cannot be summed up in one figure. We try to do so, but there are multiple poverty definitions and related figures, each with their own added value and limitations. That is why we do not want to rule out figures categorically. As with a similar motion during the APB, the cabinet must therefore also discourage this motion. I have just promised to report on these European figures and to do so side by side. But in this form, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u514	There is simply a European obligation to report that other definition, so that is also happening towards Eurostat, and so is the Netherlands. That's not exciting in itself. This harmonisation is simply desirable because shopping is taking place at the moment. That poverty is also looked at in one or two other ways in the monitor. I understand that this is how we look at it. But if you just let this one definition be guiding in all things, then you can pursue that policy. That would be the point. I think that's exactly what all these other countries are doing. Of course, there is never a ban to put a second one underneath it or something. I hope this still convinces other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u515	Thank you for that explanation. It doesn't change my judgment right away, but it makes me think. We are puzzled, precisely with this definition, because we get different figures from it, but sometimes we also see that this is about households and sometimes about child poverty. I think we agree on the desirability. Only the added value of a single person in our experience would be too limited. I remain "dissuade' from the judgment, but I would like to look at it myself, inspired by Mr Omtzigt. I shall now turn to the three amendments, starting with a response to Mr Kwint's amendment to item No. 9, on making family allowances dependent on income. The present amendment envisages the temporary, until 2025, income dependent on family allowances and limiting them to households with maximum household income. This is a fundamental change in the system, whether temporary or not, in which the tax collection income and tax partnership are important for the entitlement to and the level of child benefit. These are new elements in family allowances which have not been widely used by the implementation, the SVB, so far. This means a major system adjustment which is not feasible in the short term. Moreover, the collection income is only available after the end of a year. This increases the uncertainty for parents and is likely to recover. That is not desirable. There is also a need for a legislative amendment. In addition, it is undesirable to exclude some parents from receiving child benefit. In the Netherlands, child benefit is the public contribution which helps all parents to cover their children's costs. It symbolizes the importance the government attaches to parental support. In addition, there is already income support for parents who are dependent on income, namely the child-related budget. This is carried out by Supplements. Also, the coverage in the amendment is only temporary, while the investments in implementation are multiannual. I therefore reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u516	That's a lot of things I have to say about. The amendment is just as temporary as not indexing childcare, namely two and a half years. It's completely identical. I agree that it is a change in the family allowances system. So far, you're just getting it by default. But to speak of a major system change when you're doing nothing but passing it off to people who make more than two tons? That's a little too easy for me. In the end, it's about choice. I immediately agree with the Secretary of State that it is really not the best solution, if you do not give people with two ton two and a half years child benefit and then they just get it again. Right away! But I think it is a much more beautiful solution than simply taking it away from everyone, to take it away from people who really can't spare the money. These people probably won't even notice for the next two and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u517	That is a view that I understand from Mr Kwint. I have put a number of arguments aside. Mr Kwint's and the cabinet's will continue to differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u518	Finalizing, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u519	Apart from a political weighting, there were also some substantive points. Yes, the amendment is temporary, but it's just as temporary as the bill. It's two and a half years, that period. Then that is not an argument for rejecting this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u520	That coverage remains structural. That's what's happening here, so you should change it anyway. Unless you include in the bill that it has a temporality. It's possible. Anyway, we're talking about a hypothetical, potential bill where, apart from a lot of other reasons, I think it's a whole fundamental system change. I don't expect this cabinet to do that in missionary status.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u521	All right, clear. You disagree, but the verdict is: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u522	I kept it till the end, but I actually thought "no." Mr. Kwint is sharp to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u523	I am moving forward, even though we all want to go home and this is already a very embarrassing display, because this is the same Secretary of State who is just downright defending from a legislative consultation, where the explanatory statement says: we are doing placement coverage. Not filled in: placement, even a placement on the formation. And then here Mr. Kwint lectures on that the coverage is not good, that it is not structural. In the explanatory statement there is no proper cover and then there is someone here to lecture on such an amendment, I really do not understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u524	This is a repeat of moves. We have included cover in the explanatory memorandum on the proposal. That is why we are discussing it today. You don't agree with that, you can. Anyway, if we don't, we're gonna go in circles. We're not gonna fix that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u525	I think so, too. Finalizing, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u526	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. So you say that the placement coverage... If you found the qualification of the amendment just inadequate, the placement coverage in the cabinet's explanatory statement itself was therefore insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u527	I don't follow that logic. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u528	There is also an amendment to item No. 8. They're both Mr. Van Baarle's. The amendment in part No. 8 is about shortening the period, if I do, so don't let go of the child benefit index in 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u529	That is the amendment to item No. 2. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u530	I have been told that it is the amendment to item No. 8 is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u531	Yes, I have the amendment in part No. 8. Excuse me. This is about abandoning the reduced indexation of family allowances in 2024. That's correct, isn't it? The amendment before us is concerned with abandoning the reduced indexation of family allowances in 2024, partly on the basis of the expectation that inflation will be higher than estimated in the legislative proposal. This will allow the non-indexation proposed in the draft law to achieve more coverage for the implementation organisation. In the light of current economic developments, I understand this reasoning. However, we do not know exactly what inflation will do. Coverage will have to run around structurally and cumulatively. It is therefore important to proceed with indexation only after coverage has been achieved. So we cannot anticipate that. However, I have just promised at the motion of Palland, Tielen, Van Beuker-Huijbregts and Ceder that the cabinet will come forward with a letter of amendment. This amendment is too narrow and I will therefore advise against it. In addition, the amendment is not covered. For that reason, too, I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u532	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u533	Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the last amendment, the amendment to item No. 10, on indexing the additional amount of child benefit. That is a broadly supported amendment. This is seen in the indexing of the additional amount of child benefit. It is a sympathetic way of preventing single and single-earning parents with a child living at home who needs intensive care from facing both the non-indexation of the basic child benefit amount and the additional amount of child benefit. For the purposes of indexing the additional amount of family allowances, cover is necessary. It's about 8 tons a year. This is provided for in the amendment by saving this amount on implementation costs. That leaves the judgment to the Chamber. I thank the Chamber for this debate. I look forward to next better and even better debates, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u534	Thank you for your input. Thanks also to the members and staff, both from the Ministry and from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u535	Let's talk about the time of the vote. That is qualified, because we need to have an opinion on two motions prior to the vote and we cannot vote on the law until there is a letter of amendment that can be voted on, including the amendments. It may be the Tuesday after recess, but that depends on these conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u536	I do not want to spoil the joy of celebrating, but that also depends on whether we decide to reopen on receipt of the letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u537	That too is a right of the Chamber, indeed. That is why we do not know exactly when we are going to vote, but I was just trying to say that. We can see that. I thank you and close the meeting.
