ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Act 34641, the Act of Violence of Investigation Officer. We need the Minister's answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security. Can I ask Members to take some rest in the Chamber so that the Minister can concentrate properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, it is good that we are seeing each other in good health and, as far as I am concerned, I said 'as far as I am concerned' and I hear some echoes from the room, because there are undoubtedly 60-plussers who may not have been vaccinated yet. I can recommend Tom-Jan Meeus' article to anyone at the NRC today. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity today to address this important bill: the assault investigation officer. We all think that this is something that I see in the written rounds too, must have a lot of and thorough attention. Your Chamber has also asked questions about the decision to change the instructions for office, second instalment, which is not scheduled for today. I will come back to that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Almost all spokesmen have rightly asked for attention in different words to be given to the important task of the investigative officer. Investigation officers perform an important role in society: they guarantee our security and sometimes, in the performance of their duties, they should take a step forward where others can take a step back. Sometimes, unfortunately, there will be a need to apply violence. That monopoly of violence lies with the government. They therefore have a different position than you and I. It is in the interests of the investigator himself, but also in the interests of society and, above all, of the possible victim of violence, that the use of violence should be subject to proper ex post investigation, taking into account the special role and competence of the investigating officer. If it appears that the investigating officer has not acted properly and has infringed rules, an appropriate response must follow. It may sometimes be necessary to prosecute the investigating officer. The legislative proposal introduces a legal framework for the assessment of such abuses by investigators when they result from physical injury. To this end, a specific criminal offence, a specific grounds for exclusion and an investigation of the facts have been formulated. In addition, the bill provides that cases against investigative officers who are prosecuted for the use of force in the performance of their duties are to be concentrated in one court. I will also deal with these aspects in the light of the questions put by your Chamber. First of all, I would like to say something about the change in the instructions for office, second instalment, which is also part of the violence instruction for investigators. I would like to stress that the bill does not alter the violence instruction. However, in the light of the overall system of instructions of violence, the opportunity has been used to update and clarify the instruction of the office. That was also necessary. The instruction shall complete the power of violence and lay down detailed rules on the use of violence and anti-freedom means. In doing so, the instruction also provides officials with the necessary guidance in the performance of their duties. The starting point, I would like to emphasise, is that the police do not use force or force unless necessary. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there must also be room for consideration in the concrete circumstances, because over-regulation of what is and is not allowed would create unworkable situations. In the second tranche of instruction, therefore, a balance has been sought between clear standards and when can violence and freedom-limiting means be used? The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to This has not increased the legal scope for using means of violence. The Council of State did not comment on this in its opinion on the instruction of the office. I would like to say this to Mr Talsma, whom I would like to congratulate on his maiden speech along this rather subtle road. The Council of State therefore did not see any remaining points in reading this effect. Mr. Chairman. The instruction of violence shall include the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity, reasonableness and moderation. The instruction of the office provides further details. If a means of violence can be used as a result of the instruction of the office, it must always be assessed against those four principles. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the questions raised by your Members. I've classified it, and I'll start with the point of criminalisation. First of all, I come to the questions put by Mrs Bezaan and Mr Meijer. Mr Meijer asked whether, in the new situation, the prosecution could still prosecute existing violent crimes, such as assault and manslaughter, even if the investigating officer deliberately violated the instructions of the office. Mrs Bezaan asked what the consequences would be if an investigative officer used disproportionate force as a result of culpable acts. With the introduction of the new criminalisation of Article 372 Criminal Law, the aim is to provide the public prosecutor with a very clear lex specialise for the existing violent crimes. The criminal offence allows the prosecution to better differentiate according to the seriousness of the charge that is being brought against the investigating officer. It is not intended to allow only prosecution for that new crime. If the prosecution sees reason for this, it may still prosecute for the existing general offences. If an investigative officer intentionally violated the violence instruction, prosecution of a general intentional violence crime is in the least reasonable. But once again, the choice to prosecute will always lie with the state's attorney's office. Then there were questions from Mr Recourt and Mr Janssen last time, three weeks ago at the beginning of the first term. The instruction of office is, of course, formally the material implementation of a criterion of the law in a formal sense. Informally, that was already the case. The question was: is the lex certa principle guaranteed if the violation of the instruction of violence is punishable and the instruction of violence again largely consists of the instruction of the office? I agree with them that it is important that the new criminalisation complies with the lex certa principle. This requires that it be clear what acts and omissions can be regarded as legitimate and which are not based on the instruction of violence, including the instruction of the office. The change in the instruction of the office, in close cooperation with police and KMar, sought to strike a balance between sufficient clarity and detail of the rules, so that the investigating officer knows how to act, and the area for the investigating officer to consider himself in a difficult situation. Some of your members have used the phrase "split second" from English. It is simply a question of what it will be about in these cases. That's what it is. Too strict and detailed rules pose a great risk, namely that the investigator in the slightest deviation from them violates all the instruction of violence and is therefore punishable. Apart from the fact that too detailed and too strict rules mean that you can no longer regulate things, because they no longer fit within those very strict definitions, which is what you would like to do. Those who have exercised the law in practice will recognize that. In addition to the way in which the instruction of violence has been and has been formulated, I would like to point out that this has also been discussed in the light of questions put by your Members, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the investigative officers are and must be very well trained in the use of force in accordance with the rules. I would almost say that they are very well trained in dealing with the use of violence. As professionals, they can be expected to know the rules and know when and how to use violence. This is also constantly being trained and practiced. On this point, I should like to reply to Mr Janssen and Mr Recourt. The new criminal offence is a high-quality crime. The task of the investigating officer and his power of violence justify an assessment of possible cult actions that differ from the regular offences of violence. Then I will go back to that point of deliberate action, because this is about the culpoze action. The deliberate act, the deliberate violation of your instruction of office, is not a question of culpable action and is a question of deliberate committing a violent crime. Then you're in generic criminal law. However, on the basis of the above, I think it is clear that the lex certa requirement has been met here. Mr Dittrich asked when the Public Prosecutor's Office chose to impose disciplinary measures and when it opted for criminal prosecution. A decision on whether a possible breach of the instructions of office should lead to disciplinary action is not for the Public Prosecutor's Office to decide. Such measures can be the final part of the police's internal assessment, which, of course, focuses on the professionalism of the official concerned and also on integrity. The officer responsible for that assessment shall be the Chief of Staff. It may be that, under circumstances, the Public Prosecutor chooses not to prosecute if it considers that in the situation in question, disciplinary measures taken by the Chief of Police can be sufficient. That assessment is for the public prosecutor, within the framework of the principle of opportunity. Mr Dittrich asked whether more prosecutions would take place in view of the fact that the prosecution has asked for the new criminal offence. Mr President, I say through you to Mr Dittrich that I do not expect the introduction of the new criminalisation to lead to more prosecution. With the introduction of Article 372 of the Criminal Code, it is really not intended to create more room for criminal liability of the investigating officer. In cases where the investigating officer is already a criminal offence, it is intended to enable prosecution on the basis of the description of the offence which is the most appropriate to the alleged conduct. In other words, it is a description of the crime for the cult of acting in the context of office, as opposed to, for example, deliberate action. I've already said a few things about that. I have not received any signals that the Public Prosecutor is currently refusing to prosecute, because under the current rules, only general violence offences are at the service of the Public Prosecutor. Mr. Chairman. Dan asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u4	I still have a question about the state's attorney's office and the department. From the Public Prosecutor's Office, I have heard from practice that sometimes it is said: we are not going to prosecute, because we assume that internal order is put on business and that the police department is conducting a disciplinary investigation. Well, it turns out in practice that once the decision not to prosecute has been made, the corps leadership doesn't do anything either. Then nothing happened. My question to the Minister is whether he recognizes this signal. If the Minister recognizes this, I'll ask what we can do about it, so it doesn't happen anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u5	Let me say right away that I don't recognize the signal. But if Mr Dittrich has received that signal, I would like to take it seriously. Here's what I'm gonna say. Let us begin with the fact that the culpoze crime is the result of violating the instruction of the office with bodily harm. If the fact-finding findings show that this has been met, the description of the offence does not leave much room to postpone it to merely disciplinary measures. That fact-finding does, after all, make it quite clear that that description of the offence has been met. Then, of course, there is still the Article 12 criminal procedure. In a situation where the description of the offence is simply fully met, I would say that the prosecution should make an independent assessment, i.e. on the basis of the fact-finding with regard to the definition of Article 372 criminal law, whether there is cause for prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u6	If it's very serious business, there's no difference of opinion. The point is that the Public Prosecutor sometimes thinks: this offence is not so serious that we are immediately prosecuting on the basis of the Code of Criminal Law, but it is very good if we look in the police column at how that action can be appreciated. I have been informed that they will refrain from prosecution. Such an investigation as it is now, so not complying with the bill, can sometimes take a very long time. After a year or so, the corps leadership comes to the conclusion: we do nothing and there will be no disciplinary action. Then, let's say, wrong behavior is not corrected in any way. My question is, also in the light of the citizens in the Netherlands, what can be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u7	That is why it is good to look to the future in the light of this legislative proposal. How's that supposed to go? This is what I am saying again. I am explaining this bill in this way. The Public Prosecutor's Office must make its own decision as to whether criminal proceedings should be brought and, if so, why, if the full description of the offence under Article 372 of the Criminal Code has been complied with. Well, then it's clear that the D.A.'s office made that assessment. It will therefore be made clear whether the Public Prosecutor's Office is saying: we are all in favour of not continuing criminal proceedings. This may be the case, for example, if the physical injury was very minor and the violation of the instruction of the office may also be quite marginal. I'd like to stress that that's still casuistic at the state's attorney's office. The criminal prosecution policy plays a role in this, but the opportunity principle also plays a role in this. I think Mr Dittrich is concerned about the following. In any case, I do not think it should be the case that this consideration should never be made visible to the public again, because there might be another disciplinary investigation and the prosecution would say: we are not doing anything for the time being. I suspect that is the concern of Mr Dittrich. Eventually, the prosecution's assessment disappears in the fog of the shadowy realm, and that must not happen, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr Dittrich, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u9	In this very long answer, the Minister said at one point: then there was a disciplinary matter and then it is fair to say that the Public Prosecutor may refrain from prosecution. But the problem is that the prosecution decides on the basis of the commitment that there will be a disciplinary investigation, which may sometimes take a year or more. Then the decision of the D.A.'s office was taken, although it turns out after that year that the investigation led to nothing. This means that the citizen is empty-handed and has not taken corrective action, if necessary. So there's a hole in there somewhere, and I'm trying to close that hole. I therefore ask the Minister to look again at how this can be linked in practice, so that no one is left empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u10	I would nevertheless like to reassure Mr Dittrich. In any case, there is the Article 12 criminal procedure. What I was going to say for a short time or a brief moment is that the Public Prosecutor's Office must make clear his views on this matter, because it is, of course, generally matters which have the necessary meaning in the legal system. The D.A. must make a clear assessment, and if that assessment concludes that the D.A. is still waiting for the disciplinary investigation, then it may be appropriate for an interested party or a person concerned, or his or her advisers, to initiate an Article 12 procedure. That possibility offers us the right to do so. I do not think that we should want to close this here, although I do think that this consideration should be made known. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Baay-Timmermans had...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u11	Carpenter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u12	Carpenter. Excuse me, my mistake. She pointed out that I write that the prosecution of Article 372 is preferable. She wondered whether that was my preference or whether the Public Prosecutor's Office would prefer it. She is also concerned whether a secret order would not have been given to the Public Prosecutor's Office and whether the Public Prosecutor could still make a stand-alone assessment. Let me be very clear about this: neither in the legislative proposal nor in any other outside contact between me and the Public Prosecutor's Office is there any mandate to always prosecute for that new crime rather than for a general crime of violence. The proposal does not alter the power of the Public Prosecutor to determine whether or not prosecution is taking place and, if so, on the basis of which criminal offence. On the basis of the results of the investigation, the prosecution shall consider all facts and circumstances, including the seriousness of the accusation that the suspect is made. It decides on this basis whether and for what crime is being prosecuted. Article 372 Criminal law is really intended for cases where an investigating officer has made a wrong, careless assessment and commits a crime that I have always referred to as "a culpable crime." Let's stick with that term. This new criminalisation makes it possible for the prosecution to differentiate better according to the seriousness of the charge. I shall return to the answer given to Mr Meijer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u13	I was confused for a moment, because I had literally asked that question and I saw Mrs Baay-Timmerman look a bit like: is the Minister talking to me now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u14	For the sake of completeness, I must say that Mr Janssen's name was also mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u15	That explains everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u16	Instead of Mrs Baay-Timmerman I should have called it duo Janssen and Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u17	The point I was concerned with was that the Minister also indicated in the written reply and, in my opinion, in the pleading that it was the preferred variant. I would have said that the circumstances of the case should show that. I had asked: it is not the case that the Minister says 'it is the preferred variant that should also be used'. That was the covert advice I'm asking for. Do I understand the Minister that there isn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u18	No, no, there isn't. Mr Janssen and I understand each other well, as we do often and also in this respect. I hope I made that clear now. And from now on, I will really mention everyone, Mr President, who has raised a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u19	I was not concerned either that there would be some sort of covert and secret mission from the minister to the prosecution. Of course, the D.A.'s gonna decide on which crime scene someone's gonna be prosecuted. This is what I was talking about. I also heard the Minister say that once there is a kind of lex certa, there will generally be a tendency for the prosecutor to use the prosecution more quickly on that ground, on such an article. And this is more an "articulus certa" than a lex certa, because it is not a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u20	It is a speciality that does not apply to us, ordinary citizens, because we ordinary citizens do not have that power of violence if the four requirements I mentioned are met. Well, that makes it different anyway. That means that you can actually say that it is now simply stated clearly and formally here that the investigating officer can be held responsible for failing to carry out his duties carefully in criminal matters. That is what I wanted to express in the documents. And that, of course, gives a very clear framework within which that crime must then be seen. And I think it is, in all honesty, a real progress that we are now laying down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u21	I know that the Minister is still due to answer my questions, but I would like to take this up immediately. The Minister said something very important to me. He said: it is really a question of the official not exercising his powers with due care. That's the point. My point is, then, that it is not a question of the result. It's not a question of anyone getting hurt, yes or no, but it's a question of him stepping outside of the violence instruction. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u22	It is a criminally culpable, careless application of the power of violence. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u23	The offence is therefore essentially a violation of the instruction of violence, which is then enshrined in criminal law. Let me get this straight. I'm gonna need the Minister to clear me up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u24	Well, as far as the physical injury is concerned, I'll come back later to answer your questions. You should, of course, mention that point of the personal injury.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u25	I understand that the Minister is saying this, but he's actually saying something different than what he said before. Before this, he said quite clearly that it was about non-compliance with the violence instruction. That's what the minister said before, and I think that's how it is. The Minister said it was a non-scrupulous exercise of the task. What is the result of that is another question. The Minister is linking that now, but the question remains of course: what is the purpose of the criminalisation? From the Minister's earlier words, I understand that the purpose of the offence is to call the official who is allowed to use violence to account for violating the rules that he must observe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u26	I have only taken up the description of the crime, because that is a not insignificant starting point in criminal law, as we all know. You'll find it literally in there, of course. "The official to whom it is due that he violates it in his instructions of violence..." It says "to whom it is due." That is what I call criminally culpable, careless action by the investigating officer concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u27	Mr Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u28	I read that too, and I'm glad that's a criminal offence. But the Minister doesn't pursue his purpose. This is because it only counts in criminal matters when there is physical injury. And my question was: 'That's probably what the Minister is going to say in 'Why is that limited to situations of personal injury'. You can also have psychological injury, or other suffering. The Minister says that you must hold the official responsible for not exercising his duties carefully, namely in violation of the instruction of violence. Then that should be the starting point, regardless of what kind of injury it causes. But I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that in response to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u29	Let me then make a few points about Mr Nicolaï's answer to that question. Then we'll do it in conjunction with it. He mentioned a number of situations where no injury was caused and asked several questions about it. I actually want to answer them in conjunction with each other. Look, article 372 criminal law............................................................................................................................................................ That states that it is punishable by violating the instruction of violence resulting in physical injury or death. That is also the action that belongs in criminal law in the context of this culpoze crime. If the instruction of violence is violated while it does not result in injury, disciplinary judgment lies in reason, and that is still open. Not every mistake made by an investigative officer must always be sanctioned by criminal law. There are, of course, exceptional cases. Mr Nicolaï mentioned a few examples of this, such as that of the young lady in whom an agent with a strangled knee was sitting, if I may put it that way. He also mentioned the dog that was used against a 75-year-old protesting gentleman. In exceptional cases, if the violation of the instruction of violence does not result in a physical injury but is considered by the D.A. to be a criminal offence, it is certainly still possible, for example, to establish a Community crime of violence. That will depend on the circumstances of the case. I look at Mr Nicolaï's body anguage and I see him shaking no now, but what I made very clear in the first sentence is that we say: this is a special crime, a particularly culpose crime, and we define the culpoze as those situations in which it results in physical injury and/or death. This is without prejudice to the fact that someone who does not apply the violence instruction properly... The situations in which that happens intentionally are, in any case, in community criminal law, as I said, and perhaps also in conditional situations. And the situations in which there may be no physical injury but where, for example, someone does not sleep at night for a long time, as Mr Nicolaï described, and has real mental problems because of what has happened to her, which I can imagine, are situations that can still have a place in disciplinary law as well as in community criminal law. But that is not what this regulation is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u30	I heard the Minister say that, but in the examples I mentioned, it was not about intent but simply a misjudgement and people who have lost a bit of their way in the exercise of their powers. But there is not a single Community crime which the Minister can rely on to deal with these three situations. My question was also how to explain to society that this is not sanctioned by criminal law, that it is not covered by community criminal law, when it is clearly about exceeding the violence instruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u31	I'm going to explain that to society in two parts. I've already said something about the first part. Firstly, we have very well trained and trained police for these kinds of difficult situations, where you look at violence in split seconds. Our police have been in place for years, 6 years, worldwide, on the parts of professionalism, integrity and what is more, that's really focused on that. That is also because our police have the task of providing aid, which one of your members has literally quoted. When I talk to colleagues in other EU Member States about the success of the district agent, it is a bit difficult for them to translate if I understand the position of the police in some other countries of Europe. That is really an essential point, so the first part is that our police have very good training. I'm gonna lance for that, too. I am looking at the last Corona year, in which we have seen all kinds of violent moments passing by, in which the police have always gone to the extreme to exercise restraint and restraint. This means that we must take as a starting point that the situations referred to by Mr Nicolaï will also be very exceptional. These exceptional situations will be possible, but this special arrangement is not intended for this purpose. This regulation is really intended for the situation where a criminally culpable misjudgement of police officers leads to physical injury or death. This may be different from the situation in the case in which it was quite clear, as Mr Nicolaï himself says, that the policeman in question really lost it altogether. It is about the situation that a person is in his right mind and makes an assessment, but a culpable error of assessment. That's what this culpoze crime is about. There are, of course, gradations to that reproachably wrong balance. As soon as it crosses the threshold of intent, I will repeat it again and again, as far as I am concerned, you are in ordinary criminal law. And when it comes to a situation where bodily injury or death was not the result, you are basically still in disciplinary law and possibly liability law and also community criminal law. In some situations, however, Mr Nicolaï and I do not know the circumstances in these situations. That may be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u32	I understand what the Minister is saying, and I also see what the sentence we are talking about is aimed at, but it is not aimed at some things, namely if that official goes beyond his bounds and does that cult, when it does cause suffering to citizens, but does not translate into physical injury. My question is why this should not be regulated under criminal law. The Minister is constantly avoiding this question by saying what he has arranged. My question is: something has not been settled and why has not been settled. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u33	Sorry, I started answering before the chairman gave me the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u34	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u35	Mr Nicolaï and I differ on this. I say that it is indeed settled, including in communal criminal law. Whether something is a criminal offence determines the Code of Criminal Law. I have mentioned a few examples and I am not going to repeat them. In doing so, we are going to separate the violation of the instruction of the office, i.e. the careless, criminally objectionable use of the power of violence with the resultant death or physical injury, from the criminal law. If we do not use the power of violence properly without death or injury as a result, we are not going to regulate it separately in criminal law. I have now said a few times that there may be another, general criminal offence, or an attempt to do so. But we don't, because we think it should be very clear. It is a question of the culpable misapplication of the power of violence with a very serious effect, namely death or physical injury.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u36	I have a question for the Minister, drawing on the discussion you had with Mr Nicolaï. Is it not also a problem that psychological abuse is not in itself punishable by the Code of Criminal Law? That may be outside this debate, but I do wonder, because it may also be important in this context, if there are any plans to criminalise it as a separate criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u37	I admit, quite frankly, that this is a very interesting subject for discussion, but that is quite clearly outside the scope of this legislative proposal, even if only because the community criminal law does not have a strong regulation for this. So first we have to ask each other whether we should also define psychic abuse as a criminal offence. I think that is a very interesting discussion, which is worthwhile. Meanwhile, I'm working on getting all kinds of things on the Internet, like sexting and grooming and I know a lot of things, criminalized. Then you're also a bit in the range of these kinds of crimes, but you're not in it yet. I really think that we should have a thorough discussion about whether we want to do this in criminal law first. Then you come to the question of whether you want to bring along a number of specific crimes. Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen and Mr Dittrich had questions about victims. I would like to comment on that. Mr Janssen had legitimate concerns about whether the provision of information for victims was good. I hope I can take those concerns away. It is very important that the Public Prosecutor, in his decision to prosecute for the special criminal offence or for a Community offence, motivates properly and adequately why, in the specific case, there is no choice to prosecute for a general crime of violence. I also hope that I have just said something that adds something to parliamentary history, namely that it is really motivated why or why not. If any disciplinary investigation is involved, it should be explicitly stated in the statement of reasons, especially for the interested parties. I call them "interested people," but at least for a victim and his or her environment. The latter must also be properly informed. That is also stated in the explanatory statement, but I would like to emphasise this very clearly here today. Mr Dittrich asked, a little along the lines of this, whether I would consider giving the victim the right to speak when prosecuting under Article 372 of the criminal law. I do not think that it will often be necessary for victims to start an Article 12 procedure solely for the right to speak. That was what Mr Dittrich was worried about. In principle, the judge can decide that himself, but I would like to say here that in a follow-up round that will then have to be taken up in a subsequent cabinet, the issue of the right to speak for such matters will be regulated by law. Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt and Mr Janssen asked: does the principle of ne bis in idem stand in the way of issuing a second summons? That is, of course, in connection with the Van Dam motion, which now forces us to make a choice. The principle of ne bis in idem does not stand in the way of this, so it is possible to issue a second summons in which a general offence of violence is charged to the person concerned. I refer to the text of Article 68 of the Rules of Procedure and its case law. Whether there is the same fact in the context must be demonstrated by the comparison of the facts complained of. However, the legal nature of those facts is not the same. I'll admit immediately that you can't do both at once. Perhaps in some situations that will make a prosecutor a difficult choice, but I assume that will eventually work in practice. There was another question from the PvdA: what if a culpable error of assessment was made at the operational level, causing the agent to apply disproportionate violence? When it comes to the operational level, the PvdA says: then the agent is not punishable. An investigative officer shall not be punishable if he commits an offence for the performance of an official order given by the competent authority for that purpose. This does not mean that the actions of the superiors cannot yet have criminal consequences. This also falls within the scope of criminal law. If, in the opinion of the district attorney, the superior has committed the offence, that officer may decide to prosecute that superior. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked whether the wrongful use of violence against children under the age of 12 and older people over the age of 65 could be included in the sentence as a penalty aggravating circumstance. It is, of course, up to the judge to assess how this should be qualified, but I think that we in this House are very quickly in agreement that violence against children or older people is rather disproportionate and that will undoubtedly be reflected in the resolution of the matter. That's how I see it, on the basis of existing case law. Mr Otten and Mr Talsma had some critical questions about holding onto that one court. The assessment of cases in which violence has been used by investigators really requires my personal opinion to be given specific expertise, both in the area of the legal provisions applicable to investigators which regulate the use of force, and in the way in which detectives are trained in the use of force in the practice of police work. This includes the complexity of the situations in which they have to carry out their work and the possibilities and inability of using the various means of violence. The concentration of these cases in a single court will, on the contrary, make a major contribution to the knowledge and experience of the judges who decide on those cases, because the regular handling of those cases will lead to knowledge building in that court. This will enable judges to invest more specifically in specific training in this area. This will strengthen the consistency of justice. Then I'll come back to society. I think that it is really going to give more confidence in society, especially in this kind of thing that is quite obvious and sensitive, and I hope that we agree with each other because the citizen can see that this consistency is real.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u38	I fully agree with everything the Minister has just said about this. I was not so critical of this point; that was Mr Talsma; I just had a question. The Council of State advised us not to do so, but as far as our group is concerned, we are doing exactly as the Minister explained. I have also mentioned, for example, the Enterprise Chamber, where certain specific knowledge building is concentrated. We are therefore in favour of this. For the record, therefore, I would like to point out that we are not critical of this, but that we asked why there was a deviation from the opinion of the Council of State. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u39	That's why I took it personally. I admit, quite frankly, that this bill was already on the agenda at the beginning of this period of government. I myself am convinced that we have an excellent judiciary in the Netherlands. Let me start with that. I have to be careful, of course, that I am not here as a kind of second-hand car dealer but as a price for everything that falls within the scope of Justice and Safety, but there is a real international agreement on this. That things, even there, can't go well, is part of it. Just when things never go wrong, I'd wonder how things could never go wrong. The judiciary has a huge variety of jurisdictions to judge. If we consider that the legal profession, where Mr Otten and I have even been slashed by each other for a moment, so to speak... Yes, Mr President, I will not go into any more intimate details.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u40	What am I supposed to do with that? Well, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u41	Mr President, I do not want to limit you in your own reflections, so please bear that in mind. The legal profession has started to specialise more and more in the 1990s. That already shows that it's really far too complicated to be able to oversee everything. It shouldn't be with everything, but this is a subject that I think is: here you have to build knowledge, because that split second element and everything around it requires specialist knowledge, and certainly specialist legal knowledge. That is why I have deviated from the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u42	Thank you for your answer. I also think it is very good that the Minister has deviated from that, because this is even more... I heard Mr Talsma talking about backup. I thought that was a good word for this bill, because it gives extra confidence and back-up to the investigators, because they now have a lot of legal certainty and know where they stand. Congratulations to the Minister for failing to follow the advice of the Council of State in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u43	I was the one who was indeed more critical of that one court. If only one court deals with such cases at all times on the basis of Article 372 WvS, a tunnel vision may arise, precisely because you have less comparative material with a Community crime. Then there's my second question. If the prosecution does not opt for 372 criminal law, but for the communal crime, will this be applied to the Central Netherlands court?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u44	It's not said that the judges in that court are only doing this kind of business. That would also assume that this would be a day job 24/7 during each week of the year. Of course it's not, thank God. The point is, if these cases are there, we're gonna concentrate them in one court of law. I understand what Mrs Baay-Timmerman means by her concern for tunnel vision, but it is true, quite apart from the fact that we have legal remedies in the Netherlands, that these judges will have to assess what is left of last-minute insights and knowledge in that field and let it be reflected in the ruling, that once there would be tunnel vision at this specialised court, which I cannot imagine. So I think that's going really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u45	Finally, Mr President. Are these judges getting special training for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u46	In any event, these judges will specialise in the specific points involved. I have already said something about being well aware of what training actually means and what the instruction of violence means. Not only do you need to know the Code of Criminal Law, you need to know what the training is and what can reasonably be expected of someone in the context of that training at such a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u47	Let me get this straight. Did I hear the minister say that if the district attorney charges a communal crime, it'll end up in the Central Netherlands court?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u48	That court in the middle of the Netherlands just exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u49	Suppose an investigating officer in Groningen did something and the district attorney in Groningen says this isn't right. I'm going to charge a Community crime, manslaughter or assault with serious consequences. Is such a case of a Community crime coming to that specialist court? I don't think that's the case. I would like to make this clear, because you just said that it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u50	It is good that Mr Dittrich says that. What I intended to say is: if, for example, there are more offences committed and some of them are communal offences, then they could still be brought to court in the Central Netherlands. But in the situation that the district attorney says "here should just play Community criminal law," it becomes relative or absolutely "I always mix them up" competent court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u51	Then the misunderstanding has been resolved. The last answer is the right answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u52	Thank you. It's kind of a wipe, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u53	Mrs. Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go back to this point anyway. The legislative proposal assumes that the Central Netherlands court has jurisdiction, except where an official is empowered to use force under Article 7 et cetera of the Police Act. That's how I get it. So that would be to say that, if there is a Community crime, Central Netherlands is also responsible for exclusion. Article 2a.a.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u55	The Minister. Can you stay a little close to the microphone? Otherwise, people at home won't be able to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u56	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm missing the song Mrs Veldhoen is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u57	I can offer it to the minister, if you like. I got it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u58	Article 2. By the way, using force in the performance of his duties. That implies that the court of Central Netherlands indeed... If the officer would say that it is violence, but is not covered by Article 372, I must restore it. In that case, the Central Netherlands court would indeed have jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u59	Then I conclude for the sake of clarity that all commune offences relating to an execution of violence by an investigative officer end up in the Central Netherlands court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u60	Yes. I just didn't say it right. That's all coming from the Central Netherlands court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u61	How far have you come with your response, Minister? Just to get an idea of the timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u62	I still have a few very thin folders. There's gotta be some way to do that. I'll get to the fact-finding. Mr Dittrich asked by whom, when and on the basis of which criteria the investigation of the facts takes place. That's up to the district attorney. It shall be established in respect of the violence used by an official who exercises his power of violence under the Police Act 2012 or the Special Investigation Services Act. That fact-finding investigation shall examine whether the violence has been applied in accordance with the violence instruction. This is reflected in practice when the prosecution receives a notification of the registration of violence. I trust you with that. The prosecution will also receive a notification if, in the opinion of our minister, the chief of police, the commander of the Royal Marechaussee, the director of the National Criminal Court, gives rise to this. In these cases, too, the prosecutor will be able to order an investigation of the facts. Mr Janssen and Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked whether I believe that the truth should be paramount in the investigation of the facts. The investigation of the facts is about whether the violence used was used in accordance with the instruction of violence. Then all the facts must come to light. Let me stress once again that the fact-finding does not limit the truth finding. On the contrary, that is really intended to bring that up. This is also reflected in the proposed article 511a.a. of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Mrs Bezaan asked whether this is being carried out by the National Criminal Court or by another body that is not involved. The D.A. will conduct that fact-finding, and that will always be about whether the violence has been used in accordance with the violence instruction. If it is immediately clear that the violence instruction has been violated, if it is clear that it is disproportionate, a criminal investigation will be launched immediately. The investigation of the facts is carried out in principle by the Rijksrecherche. In any case, it takes place under the direction of the Public Prosecutor, but the Public Prosecutor may also instruct others to carry out parts of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u63	My question was actually about the fact that a citizen's declaration can also ensure that the D.A. decides to investigate the facts. My real question, so to speak, was: is it true that this is then done by the National Criminal Court, by the VIK or by another body, and what are the criteria for choosing one of these three agencies? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u64	The investigation is carried out in principle, as I said just now, by the National Criminal Court. In the end, the Public Prosecutor decides who will do it and whether or not other investigators will be involved. This will always be about officials working on a part other than the official whose use of force is being investigated. Mrs Bezaan also had the question of whether the investigation of the facts could also be used in the course of instruction. Yes, information from the fact-finding or criminal investigation can be used in the internal treatment and assessment of the violence record. You will find this in Article 4.3, first paragraph, section O of the Police Data Decision. Mr Dittrich asked whether there would still be problems in practice if a policeman had to testify as a witness. After all, he must explain the truth and then there is the right to remain silent. I believe that one of the Members has come back to this point today. In carrying out the fact-finding investigation, the investigating officer shall not be heard as a suspect. He won't be obliged to make a statement. This is regulated by the proposed amendment to Article 27, third paragraph of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That amendment means that officials whose use of violence is subject to an investigation of the facts shall be granted all the rights granted to the suspect in the Code of Criminal Procedure, including the right to remain silent. Mr Dittrich also asked about access to the file. Survivors may in many cases have access to the file. Article 51b of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the recognition of procedural documents by survivors of a deceased victim of a criminal offence. If the conclusion is that there is no criminal offence, then a designation under the Judicial and Criminal Data Act will give the Public Prosecutor the opportunity to nevertheless give access to survivors. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd have some other questions that I'll be going through soon. First of all, the questions on the subject of discrimination, racism and so on. Mr Dittrich asked a month ago whether I would like to reflect extensively on the approach to ethnic profiling. A number of other Members, including Mrs Veldhoen, have also asked for this last time. How can we prevent this from happening in practice? Mr President, it has already been stressed enough by your own Members that this is a very important issue. I have been in contact with the police department very often over the last few weeks, especially the chief of police. We share the analysis that racism also occurs in the police and that this should have no place there. The use of violence must certainly be carried out without regard for the individual or his/her personal characteristics. Recent figures from the CBS, which I have just sent to the House of Representatives, also show that this is the case. Personal characteristics of citizens play a very limited role in the use of force in an incident by the police. And then very often there is a certain background or justification for that. In any case, the corps leadership and I stand before an inclusive corps, in which there is no room for ethnic profiling, racism and discrimination. I have already spoken on occasion about the new perspective of the police: police for everyone. I myself have been a little foggy in recent times because of corona, but in any case in the past year we, as police, have been calling for much more of this problem to be tackled from below, rather than top-down, as it is called in the jargon, where it is said from above: this is how it must be done. No, that has to be done from the base teams themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u65	I would like to ask the Minister about the consequences of ethnic profiling in the use of violence against citizens. Yesterday, a letter was sent by the Minister with figures from CBS, among others, showing that in 36%-37% of cases, people with a non-Western migration background experience violence by the police, while they account for only 12% of the total population. This means that there is an over-representation of people with a non-Western migration background who may be victims of police violence. Would the Minister like to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u66	I've already said something about that. The CBS study also shows that the personal characteristics of citizens, such as a migration background, play a very limited role in the use of force in such an incident by the police. This still means that we have to look at that "very limited" and see exactly what the background is. I will certainly come to talk about this, initially in the House of Representatives. This is precisely because we have put in place the new police programme for everyone, which I regularly talk to the Chamber about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u67	But if you look at the figures, it shows that there is indeed a strong overrepresentation of people with a non-Western migration background. Then the CBS can say that that doesn't really turn out to be the case when they look at the reasons why this migration background plays a role, but when you look at the cool figures, it turns out to be the case. In addition to further debate on this issue, my question to the Minister is whether it would be appropriate to have an independent scientific study on this matter. I understand that this will take a while, but then we can have a thorough social discussion about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u68	Now it's getting a little complicated. The CBS says that people experience this in 36% of the cases and that the objective facts indicate that it only plays a very limited role. I would like to continue with that observation. Furthermore, I find the fact that the events surrounding that damned app group in Rotterdam have occurred with the police themselves, that they have led to strong discussions and also to their own initiatives from local corps to deal with each other on a number of points and to deal with that themselves, a much better sign than that we say with each other from above: that's how you have to do it. We have seen that from the police themselves, from all sides, there has been a great deal of protest. It is even true that it has been the reason for a number of officers to say: this cannot be done. It is my belief that you should encourage and encourage a socially important organisation such as the police in the middle of society to tackle it with proper, targeted measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u69	I have the impression that the Minister is responding to something I did not raise in this context. That app group and the apps, that's unacceptable. It is therefore logical that there should be protests from the police organisation. The CBS figures are about applied violence by the police against civilians. It will then look at the citizens against whom this violence is applied. In more than 35% of cases, people with a non-Western migration background appear to be. Then the ethnic profiling comes back around the corner. Because if you profile ethnically, it's in line with the expectation that you're using violence against that group and that that's more violence than against other groups. That's what my discussion is about. So it is not about the other thing that Mrs Veldhoen, among others, talked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u70	I would like to come back to the question of an investigation, but I am going to say something to Mr Dittrich for the second time now. He always refers to how it is experienced by people. That was in a CBS investigation. But the CBS then says that it really only plays a very limited role. I think we should also mention that. Something else is that last year the Chief Constable himself asked for an investigation into fatal incidents. Which patterns can be observed? What background do the victims have? That's already under investigation. The investigation is accompanied by a committee containing scientists, police, Amnesty, Control Alt Delete and others. Furthermore, the police will of course continue to report on exactly what is happening in the cases of violence. A further investigation does not therefore seem to me to be relevant at the moment. And I am in favour of this, which is why I brought up that point of the WhatsApp groups that they are taking up these matters themselves, as corps leaders and in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u71	I have a question for the Minister about police policy for everyone. Of course it's nice that it's there and now it's being rolled out. The question is whether it is sufficient, given that in the past, of course, all kinds of policies have been formulated which have not produced sufficient results either. At least we are still talking about this subject with great concern today. My question to the Minister is: should there not be external experts involved, who monitor the implementation of this policy and who can also take a critical look and advise on it? This has also been discussed in the city council of Rotterdam, partly in connection with the apps. Fred Westerbeke, Rotterdam Police Chief, also calls for external experts to be involved. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u72	I just indicated that the Chief Constable had an investigation conducted, involving all kinds of outsiders as well. In ordinary daily practice, the kind of programs like the Police take place for everyone. The people who roll out that program in the police department are mainly people who have an external background, so that this program is not something that only plays on the inside. Then, of course, you run the risk of not getting very much further. Then you have the question whether things are going well in the end. The most important supervision is located at the Lower House. In recent years, this has been the subject of regular debate with me every six months. There I also said at some point that I think we should have an approach that has a different approach. So that's police for everyone. The police already have their own ombudsman. The police already have I don't know how many watching and monitoring bodies. I see no reason to set up an extra body for this. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u73	I am not talking directly about an extra organ either, but more about outsiders watching. The Minister says that external partners are involved in the roll-out of this policy. But those are still people involved in the rollout. It is precisely because I am concerned that people from outside are watching whether there is sufficient speed, whether the right things are being done and whether the progress is as it should be. The Minister says: we talk to the Chamber about this every six months. However, we must note with each other that the policy has not so far produced much results. We still have a fundamental problem when it comes to trusting the police on this point. I would therefore ask the Minister to reflect on this once again. Can't the outside input be given some strength, something that is apparently felt desirable in one's own organisation? The call comes from themselves. Then we can make sure that this policy does land well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u74	Now we're really pulling it out of his joints. I told you, our police really are very highly regarded in their approach and approach at the points of integrity and professionalism. This also includes equal treatment for every citizen and everything against discrimination. Things are still not going well; that is, of course, clear. That's what we're saying we need to get it right. Mr Dittrich had not asked for it, but I have therefore considered that whole story of the WhatsApp group. There was one WhatsApp group in Rotterdam that really got a lot out of it. I think it's so good that people picked that up when that situation came up. That was, in a manner of speaking, visible to the whole world, because that was done in public. On this point, I would like to say once again that it is the second time today that we are urging our police. The police officers I've been through over the past three and a half years during almost 100 work visits and I also met them when there have just been serious coronarelles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u75	Thanks to the Minister. In my view, we agree that racism has no place in an organisation that should serve respect and respect. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister is going to talk about the police programme for everyone. Jeroen Recourt is probably going to report back here again on 30 March. Police for everyone also means that anyone can recognize themselves in the police. That means the police are a reflection of our people. There is still a ban on wearing a headscarf, for example. Will the minister in his conversation with the police raise that point when it comes to police for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u76	Let me start with the following: I have just answered parliamentary questions about this. The police have the aim to pursue the annual influx into the four major cities that 35% of the invaders have a... As a result of today's message from the CBS that people no longer speak of Western and non-Western, I have to think about how to say that. I'm also, a few generations back, of non-Dutch descent, so I don't know how to say it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u77	Bicultural maybe? I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u78	Yeah, so to speak. I would like to use this example, but I will certainly hear from it that I should have said otherwise. That target of 35% of people who have not been rooted in the Netherlands for generations, let me put it this way, I like it. That's what you're saying: in the big cities, one in three people doesn't have that solid foundation. That's good. In the meantime, I believe that the police should follow its own development in relation to dress regulations and the like. As you know, two years ago, the police said, or a little longer, that three or four years ago, we still think that the police uniform in direct contact with the citizen should really be the police uniform. I'm not gonna ask the police about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u79	I'm surprised, because you just said it would be an open conversation. Time flies. Things change. It is common practice in the United Kingdom. In my knowledge, this works fine too. I do not see why you cannot discuss with the police the state of play and the development of thinking in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u80	I fully agree with Mrs Vos. I also said that the police should develop themselves in thinking about that. I'll encourage that. This is mainly about the decision of the police leadership that the uniform is the uniform. In England, and also in some other countries, they have different views about that. I think that this is primarily something that should really come from the police themselves and, apart from that, from society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u81	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u82	We are people's representatives here. It is a question that lives in society and with us in the PvdA. I understand it could be a sensitive question. Maybe the police aren't ready, but we think it's good to have the conversation about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u83	I'm gonna say it again, but I'm gonna have that conversation. However, Mrs Vos asked, at least as I understood it, whether I would encourage the police to think differently. That is precisely what I am saying: no, I think that is an excellent thing to leave to the development of thinking within the police themselves. That must come from an increasingly diverse police force itself. It is also possible, of course, that such a wish comes from society or parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u84	This week or last week there was a large entry in NRC Handelsblad of Control Alt Delete. That organization actually called on the government to set a clear standard to the police. If there is no standard behavior, then it is also not clear what needs to be maintained. Can the Minister reflect on how he looks at that? And is he willing to talk to the police about setting such a clear standard when it comes to racism, discrimination and inclusiveness?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u85	Do you mean, linked to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u86	Of course, this is related to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u87	I'd like to do my best to relate that to the bill. In the light of this bill, I find it par excellence... The CBS says that in that violence personal characteristics or background play a very limited role. I have just said this in the exchange of views with Mr Dittrich. I think that should be "very limited" to zero, so to speak. I want to make that quite clear here. Then I'll come straight to the point of standardisation. I think the norm is very clear. That does not alter the fact that people, as we have it in all sections of society, occasionally exceed that norm, or leave it to the left, or whatever you want to call it. You'll have to call them on that right away. That's the point. Because look, if we didn't agree anymore that discrimination and racism are really out of the question, we'd be in a completely different society. So I think that standard is clear. I think there's a standard on top of it, and that's the norm of always calling on the other when it happens. That is the most important thing, as far as I am concerned. That's where the Corps Command and Chiefs have a job to do. But what we're doing with Police for everyone, and what I've been very encouraging and what I'd like to do is that people who are sitting with each other at eye level dare to talk to each other about that. Because that's actually much harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u88	Finally, on the bill, Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u89	Yes, I have one final question to clarify. You say the norm is clear. Can you make that standard clear to me, which, as far as you are concerned, also applies to the police, once again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u90	That is Article 1 of the Constitution. I mean, we really don't do inequality in the Netherlands in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u91	Minister, how far have you come with your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u92	Well, it's hurrying. I had a few more questions about the power surge weapon. These questions came from Mrs Veldhoen, Mr Recourt and Mr Dittrich. Yeah, why is it necessary to expand the force arsenal with the stun gun? It has proved its added value very clearly during the pilots. The threat is already enough in more than half of the cases to put an end to the dangerous situation without the use of force. And if it's used, the injury inflicted is minimal. This means of violence differs from other forms of intensive use of violence with significant forms of injury. Mr. Chairman. I'll be honest with you that when I started in October 2017, I've never really gotten off the device... Well, I'd heard of it, but I had no idea. After that, I saw that there really is a gap between the baton and then the dog's bet. I really say it to all the members of the States General: I would like to organise a... "Technical briefing" in this context may sound a bit troubling, but I would like to organise a briefing to show what the difference is between the dog's bet and the use of the stun gun. Moreover, all means of violence under the firearm are always evaluated after implementation. There is also research on health effects. Mr. Dittrich asked about the bodycams. We've bought 2,000 of those bodycams by now. In the second half they are spread across all units. Those bodycams do have a huge de-escalating effect. We are currently investigating whether the bodycam can also be used for all kinds of other purposes, such as intelligence, detection, evaluations and the like. To this end, the legal framework must be strengthened, for example as regards the legal status of the carrier of the bodycam. After all, his privacy must also be well protected. I really expect and hope that we will be able to roll this out very quickly in another cabinet period, because this is a really good tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u93	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I wanted to ask you another question about the taser.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u94	The power surge weapon. Taser is a brand, I learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u95	Sorry, the power surge weapon. So that's gonna be big. The Minister is enthusiastic and would even like to organise a technical briefing on this subject. My group still has some concerns about this, especially since the evaluation is not due until 2027, which is only six years from now. Mr Recourt has asked whether the power surge weapon can still be reconsidered or whether at least the evaluation can be brought forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u96	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u97	It's quite a rollout of another weapon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u98	Mr President, may I suggest that I return to that in a letter? Then I really need to see exactly what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u99	A commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u100	To this end, I have promised to return to it in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u101	A letter or possibly the evaluation can be done sooner, or that we can get a little more information on how such a thing actually works?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u102	Both. Mr. Chairman. I say on both points...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u103	I don't need a manual.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u104	Or in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u105	I give a letter on both subjects. I hope, by the way, that it is not the case that Mrs Vos' injury is related to a taser or a stun gun.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u106	That's a personal fact. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u107	I have devoted a great deal of consideration to the power surge weapon, in connection with, among other things, the Medialogica television programme, which showed that 17,000 people are equipped with a power surge weapon. That's what the Minister promised. While that television programme and later debates in the House of Representatives show that violence against the police is not increasing and that that is not necessary at all that so many people in the executive service get that power surge weapon, if you relate it to the dangers that are attached to its use. Would the Minister be willing to respond to that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u108	Again, I will reflect on this. It is quite possible that we may say in the future that those 17,000 have proved sufficient. At the moment, the estimate is that it is wise to roll it out that way, so not for all 50,000 street cops, I'll say. I would like to come back to one point: what is so important about the power surge weapon is that it occupies an intermediate position between the baton and the dog, and that in many cases it is already effective because of its presence. In 2017, early 2018 in Amersfoort, we had a serious incident, where a dog counselor from the police was almost strangled by someone who was quite out of it, with a few companions. The threat by her colleagues alone with that device... they were in that pilot........................................................................................................................................................ This is one example of practice where we simply see that it is precisely because of that power surge weapon that it does not come to violence at all. And there are a lot more such examples in that pilot. I myself believe that this might reduce the amount of violence even more. But I say "maybe," because I don't know yet. That's what we're gonna find out in the evaluation. I'm going to see if the results of that evaluation can come sooner. But it may well be that we say: rest everyone with such a stun gun, because it reduces the violence to such an important extent that you don't have to do all kinds of other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u109	In this discussion with the police, Frank Paauw himself said that as far as he is concerned, there is no need for 17,000 policemen to be equipped with that electric weapon. It can be very helpful to some people in the executive service. But a whole atmosphere has been created that would increase violence against the police, while police investigations themselves show that this is not the case. And where violence would have increased, it is because verbal violence is counted and seen as violence. Then you get very different grades than when you're looking at physical violence for sec. If you do the latter, it turns out that physical violence has declined in recent years, and that the pulse weapon doesn't need to be rolled out so wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u110	There is still far too much violence against police and other aid workers. I said two years ago that we are going to set up a task force to combat this violent behaviour on all fronts, not just repressive. It's also about violence against ordinary paramedics. Please! What do they have as a weapon? A shot? I find violence against aid workers, against police, firemen, paramedics, really indigestible. I think it's way too common. It may have decreased or increased by some percentage last year, but it is still at an unacceptable high level. And I remain convinced that the power surge weapon is a very well proportional means of reducing that violence, including from the police side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u111	Thank you. The introduction of it is, I think, not regulated by this bill, so I want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u112	Yes, but the word "violence" can be associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u113	I would like to ask Members to concentrate the discussion on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u114	I'm gonna stretch it a little, Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u115	Well, no, I'd rather not. No, no, given the time, I'd like to ask you to really ask your questions about the bill alone. I've let it run a little late so far, but now we're going to put the strings back on. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u116	We're talking about the power surge weapon. I understand that the Minister says that it is actually being used as a preventive tool, because there is far too much violence against police officers. Now a recommendation was made in 2018 by the United Nations Committee Against Torture. It calls on the Netherlands not to introduce this weapon as a general tool in situations, as a tool in daily police work, but only in life-threatening situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u117	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u118	How does the Minister reflect on that, even in view of what he says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u119	I'd like a brief answer, and in relation to the bill, Minister. Otherwise, we're just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u120	I'm sure there's a relationship and I'd like to invite the committee to come to that briefing. You've lost control of your limbs for 20 seconds. That's what the power surge weapon does. So there's significantly less damage. Seriously, I've seen a demonstration like this with those police dogs a couple of times. Now I may not be a great hero; I want to admit that immediately, but what I saw there really scared me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u121	Thank you. How much more time do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u122	Mr. Chairman. I'm going through it fast. For example, I have to deal with the police dog. I say to Mr Dittrich and Mrs Baay that the biting in the neck or the face is not taught during training. A dog fails during the examination before the exam when it bites in a body part other than an arm or a leg. But I will bring it to the attention of the police, also just in response to your questions, and I will ask you to pay extra attention to that during the periodic training. I would point out that the amended instructions include clear criteria on when and under which conditions the police dog may be used. This new commitment framework has really been created with great care and has also been looked at the National Ombudsman's opinion report, entitled The Bit Dog. There's nothing I can do about that report being called. Mr Rombouts asked about the evaluation. If he is referring to the evaluation of the means of violence, I have already promised that we will evaluate the means of violence electric weapon together with the others below the level of the firearm. It says here by 2026. I have already said that I will return to this in a letter following a question from Mrs Vos. Of course, there is also the question of whether the aim of the introduction of the power surge weapon is being achieved. Mr President, there are still a few loose subjects, so to speak. The prosecution's policy of dismissal has been discussed, also in connection with the Azarkan/Buitenweg motion of 8 June 2020. As of the Annual Report 2020, the Public Prosecutor will report annually on prosecution decisions taken in cases of violence by detective officers, I say to Mr Recourt and Mrs Vos. I informed the House of Representatives by letter dated 29 June 2020. Then there is the question of the evaluation of this law. The rule is always five years. At the request of the House of Representatives, the term has been shortened to four years. I think a shorter period is advisable, because we are really talking about a small number of things, and let us also praise it. Moreover, all the new rules to be introduced will be evaluated in response to the question put by Mr Dittrich and Mr Talsma. About the victim's position, I said, let's take that and dress it up properly, maybe with advice from the WODC. Mr Talsma mentioned the task of the investigating officer. The legislative proposal refers to the exercise of a function rather than the exercise of a task. Mr Talsma asked where the beautiful word "service" has gone. Now he and I have some other associations in ministry, within the framework of religion, but let's not talk about that now, Mr President. A compliment to Mr Talsma, because he has a keen eye. Indeed, the bill writes alternately about "exercise of a task" and "exercise of a function." Both word combinations refer to the same task, namely the task assigned to investigators by Article 2 of the Police Act and Article 3 of the Special Investigation Services Act respectively. To reassure you: the word "service" is still present in the regulations, for example in Article 7, first paragraph of the Police Act on the power of violence and in several places in the Criminal Code on criminal offences. I'm going through it fast, Mr. Chairman. It's been asked whether you shouldn't make the disciplinary decisions against police officers at an external, independent disciplinary college. In the Netherlands, we have opted for a legal hierarchical system of police disciplinary law. Within that system, the Chief Constable is responsible for maintaining internal order and integrity. When it comes to breaking standards by police officers, which would damage confidence as a whole, as we have seen in the discussion about the WhatsApp group, we need to react quickly and adequately. The Chief Constable really has a central role in that. Furthermore, this issue has also been assessed by the so-called AGFA, as you may remember or perhaps have been informed. That is the committee that gives a binding opinion on this type of disciplinary matter, chaired by Professor Cohen. Mr. Chairman. Then I have the question of how the policy and the monitoring of the operational commitment have been secured. Of course, that's primarily local, with the mayor. That is why I understand Mr Recourt's question, because the exercise of the right of demonstration must be facilitated by the public authorities and limited only on the basis of the grounds laid down in the Public Events Act. In the triangles is always discussed in advance where the tolerance limits lie. They're all about de-escalation as much as possible. The mayor is responsible for the police's actions to the city council. But there is, I can assure you, regular consultation on, weekly in the context of the corona crisis, also between myself and the presidents of the security regions, and monthly respectively in the National Security and Police Consultation. These two consultations also regularly highlight the importance of unity, as much unity as possible of policy, naturally taking into account specific local aspects and/or differences. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be through the points, I guess, when I get it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u123	Mrs Bezaan still lacks an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u124	Mr Janssen asked whether the current procedure was designed in such a way that violence is always reported, recorded and assessed by an agent. Yes. Any use of violence must be reported and reviewed by the Deputy Prosecutor. Some of them are also assessed by the police chief. That system works, too. Non-reporting is dereliction of duty. It is being dealt with very severely. This is one of the reasons why the College of Attorney General and I are very reluctant to extend even slightly the monopoly of violence towards special investigators, the so-called boas, because this element is also attached to it. It's still quite If you have used this violence, you must report and register it in the right and timely manner and follow up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u125	If the Minister has really come to an end, I have another question that I do not think has been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u126	No, he's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u127	Well, what luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u128	Let's see...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u129	The same applies to Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u130	I need to see that. I've got a few more dots. Mr Dittrich...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u131	Maybe I should take a moment on the previous point the Minister mentioned...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u132	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Dittrich. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u133	In reply to Mr Janssen's questions, you mentioned the willingness to report. I asked about that myself. When there's CCTV, you sometimes see that the police first said, "No, we didn't use violence." Then a bystander filmed it and it turns out it is. The notification is the basis for the application of the articles of law. How does the Minister feel about that? I heard him say violence must always be reported. Yes, that's the rule, but in practice it turns out to be different. In most cases, of course, things are going well. But how can we get a finger that's always gonna be reported?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u134	It does happen. Sometimes it also has to do with the fact that it is not properly judged. In that respect, I have not really received reports of malpractice. But if it's put on a camera, and if that camera shows that violence has been used, it only stresses the importance of always reporting and registering it. Again, it's really seen as a serious dereliction of duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u135	Let me give you an example. In the Zembla broadcast about the police dog you saw that in a supermarket a Polish gentleman who was confused was bitten by a police dog and taken away. At first, it was said that no violence had been used. That's what they said. Next thing I know, surveillance footage came out. Then it turned out it was. Then it was said: we forgot to mention it. Clearly, this isn't right. This just hasn't been right. That's just one example. There are more to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u136	I couldn't agree more. But I can't judge whether that was deliberately reported. Of course, it's always complicated when someone says he's forgotten something or something that doesn't remember. We sometimes have such situations in politics here in The Hague. That can always happen to the best of us. But I just want to say that within the police, this obligation to register is such a basic requirement that the area of police officers also indicates to Joke or Truus or Henk or Harry that they must report this now, if the person concerned does not do so himself. That's been my experience in conversations with a lot of cops. But the discipline of the people themselves is great. May I also take this opportunity to say that it is for very many, if not all, police officers themselves a situation that they have not asked for? I heard Mr Nicolaï say something in his first term: once you are in that position, you accept the risk of having to commit violence once. I don't look at cops like that. These people have a very difficult and difficult profession, in which, unfortunately, they occasionally get into that situation. The agents I spoke to who have entered a serious situation of violence have had real consequences of that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going back to Mr Dittrich. I have already said what is necessary about the disciplinary and criminal process. I don't have to say anything about that anymore. Mrs Baay asked if we could report in the annual report on cases of permanent injury caused by violence. I cannot make such a commitment in advance, because not everyone with permanent injuries reports to the police, sometimes the damage is not immediately visible and it is difficult to determine if something is permanent. Moreover, I believe that otherwise the police report on this is really sufficiently transparent. Mr President, I am really nearing the end. Then I have Mrs Bezaan's question about the violent registration form. I do not know if that was the question that Mrs Bezaan missed the answer to. That can't be used as evidence in a criminal case. See Article 29 Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to leave it at that, because Mrs Bezaan and I understand each other when I have just said it explicitly. At least I hope that will be enough for Mrs Bezaan. Mr. Chairman. Two more things, if I may finish them just before the interruption. Mr Janssen asked about the responsibility of police violence, and Mrs Veldhoen and Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked about the need for the bill. This bill does not merely have a symbolic function. I really think it's going to be very different and that it's just more secure after the bill comes into force. I think that the discussion and the exchanges of views that we have had with each other show enough why it is so important that we do this with each other. Of course, I understand what Mr Janssen is saying: is it wise to pass on this bill in this crisis, in which much police effort is required? An important difference with some other democratic societies in which the debate on police violence has been stirred up is that we are discussing this in the Netherlands and that we are also willing to talk about the nuances of the whole. That does not alter the fact that every case in which there is a culpable violation of the instructions of office resulting in death or injury is too much and a tragedy; let me stress that. I think it is precisely for this reason that it is a good thing that we should put that legal framework in place, even at this difficult time. We can only compliment our police in this very difficult time. I speak to agents who have not had an easy day in Amsterdam since 12 Sundays as a member of the ME or as a motorcycle agent. I greatly appreciate their controlled performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u137	I am still missing an answer to my question and a number of colleagues on democratic control of the instruction of the office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u138	Ah, of course, yes! It has been clearly stated by Mr Rombouts and the word 'control' also says it clearly. I think it is a good thing that we are discussing at times, including from your Chamber, how it has been applied. But the thought that has been suggested to work with some form of veil or afterhang is not, in my view, the issue, as I explained earlier in the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u139	A brief question: why not? We talk about so many instructions and AMvBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u140	Why not? I think I have already indicated that enough. I fully understand that your Chamber also says that we should keep a check on it, but that is different from filling it out in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u141	Many of the introductions on 30 March were concerned with a considerable extension of the violence instruction. The lower limit is changed, but that is quite a material change. We agree on the shell, the law, but we don't agree on its implementation. That's what this is about, that's what society is about. It's a kind of inconvenience that many organizations and many people are talking about. In order to restore confidence, you want to talk to the people's representatives about that, don't you? Do you want to be able to look again, also on the other side, at the change in the measures that are being laid down? I think that's what this whole debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u142	Well, I said at the beginning of the debate I didn't go into it so specifically in relation to the questions that the bill doesn't change the status of the office instruction. That is not what we are talking about today. The question then is whether you should submit a draft decision to change the instructions of office in a kind of veil. I have explained that this effect is something that should not be presented to your Chamber Forum in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u143	Mrs. Fox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u144	The social debate was precisely about the elaboration. In fact, the social debate was not so much about the legislative proposal as it was about the material content. You think you've explained it, but I don't think people in society can explain at all why you can't talk about how and when the police dog is being deployed, why you can't talk about the stun gun and why the parliament can't talk about the implementation of the violence instruction beforehand. It should be about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u145	I think the material is really in this bill. The Police Act 2012 lays down a preliminary procedure for matters of management, strength and resources, Articles 30 and 36. On that basis, there is absolutely no need to do so. Once again, the substantive discussion is contained in Article 372 Sr and I think we have discussed it extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u146	In the first term, I made the comparison with the Opium Act in which the formal criminalisation takes place in the Opium Act itself, but the material implementation in lists 1 and 2. I think this is a comparison that goes along with it. Can you reflect on why in this case the Chambers would have nothing to say about the material content of that instruction, while the Chamber may discuss in-and-after what resources are on lists 1 and 2?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u147	I find this comparison to be unfortunate, because it is indeed a matter of very specific means which should or should not be prohibited. I'm not going to go into that discussion. I repeat what I said. The Police Act prescribes a preliminary procedure for the issues of management, strength and resources. That's actually the shortest explanation I can give. We have had a detailed written and oral exchange of views on the legislative proposal as it stands. I appreciate that very much. The instruction of the office is not currently being discussed either, as far as the amendment is concerned. I've explained why such a hanging procedure wouldn't play. If, in due course, your Chamber would like to return to that in due course, if that instruction were to be discussed, it would of course be up to your Chamber. I have explained why it is at least regulated differently in the Police Act than in the Opium Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u148	Finally. In fact, the Police Act is different from the Opium Act, which is clear. But that is not chiseled in stone and can be adjusted. If I read the Minister's reply correctly, then the Minister also says that the instruction of the office has been amended to take account of this criminality. So there is a very important relationship between one and the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u149	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I didn't really hear a question. I understand, but I explained why. That'll be me at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u150	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Is there a need for a short suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u151	A brief suspension, 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u152	I suggest 5 minutes, up to 15.55 hours, rounded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u153	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u154	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Talsma. What a nice debate for his maiden speech. I listened to that with great interest. His expertise immediately came in handy. Thank you also to the Minister for answering all the questions. It sounds like the damaged trust of citizens in the government needs to be restored. The confidence of citizens in the conduct of the police is an important condition in its action. Research shows that in countries where police powers are changed after a public debate, the number of victims of police violence falls and the legitimacy of police action increases. I have heard today from several colleagues that parliamentary involvement in the establishment of the instruction is important. The Minister doesn't think that's necessary. But the new governance culture, restoring power and counterpower, begins with ourselves. That's why I'd like to file a motion. The: Mr Veldhoen, Mr Vos, Mr Dittrich, Mr Janssen and Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Police Act 2012 does not provide for prior parliamentary involvement in the establishment of the Civil Service Instructions for the Police, the Royal Marechaussee and other investigative officers;]] [[Considering that such involvement is desirable as the instruction confers far-reaching powers of violence on investigators who can intervene deeply in the lives of citizens;]] [[considers that parliamentary involvement in the instruction of duties is desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that parliamentary involvement is ensured with regard to the instruction of the office by means of a suspension procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34641-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u155	My group regrets the Minister's response to our requests to strengthen police policy for all with external experts to monitor its implementation. The fact is, as we can see, that earlier policies in this area have produced no or insufficient results. There is still racism and discrimination within the police organisation. Of course not everywhere and not by everyone: here too the good suffers from the evil. The discussion in Rotterdam and the call of police chief Fred Westerbeke showed that the practice calls for such supervision. I would ask the Minister once again to reflect on these questions. In the second term, he may be able to shed some light on strengthening the roll-out of this important policy for all. In spite of the Minister's answer to all the questions, my group is concerned about the extension of the instruction of the office. Vulnerable groups are no longer excluded, even when using the power surge weapon and the service dog, while there is no study of the effects of, for example, a taser in children. The United Nations Commission, I have just mentioned, advises that only power-shoot weapons should be used and allowed to be used in life-threatening situations. All in all, a number of fundamental concerns of my group. On the other hand, my group supports the principle of a separate criminal law position for the investigating officer, who also reflects his position in the social field. We will make the final assessment this week. I'm still waiting for a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u156	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. I call Mrs Vos on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u157	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would also like to congratulate Mr Talsma, the colleague of the Christian Union, on his sharp speech. I wish him a very good time in this Chamber; I think it fits perfectly here. I am glad that he is the successor of Mr Mirjam. Mr. Chairman. When I was a kid, the police were your best friend. I did not hear that in this debate. I actually hear it less and less often and I find that a pity, because the police hear that if you are of good will, you should also be your best friend. And so is the police. When I came out of the emergency room long after curfew last night, I was hoping to meet my best friend, the police, but it was nowhere to be seen. Lots of mopeds, cars and people walking their dog, but also people without dogs. I missed the police. We are talking today about the exceptional case that the police must use force. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to return to the use of the power-bulb weapon and the possible advance of the evaluation, because my group is not entirely satisfied with the extensive instruction of violence. Then I come to the next point. However, I am very sorry that the Minister has given such a procedural answer to the question of democratic control. In recent weeks and months we have been talking about the breach of confidence that exists and, certainly in the context of this bill, the breach of confidence that exists, if I may say so, in people of colour. We would have liked to have been able to talk about the extension of the violence instruction. It's our job to look into this. It's not just playing Lower House or excessive interference. It's more than that. Our group is also under the motion just tabled by Mr Veldhoen van GroenLinks. However, I would like the Minister to say a little more than merely procedurally that it is not in the Police Act, and I would like it to go into the reasons why this Chamber and the other side cannot have a thorough discussion about this. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one final point, which is about prejudice, about racism. It is important, and it is also the context of this law, that the police are above this law and enforce respect. We are therefore pleased that the Minister is going to talk about the police programme for everyone. The PvdA Group very much hopes that the outcome of this programme will be that the police will become the best friend again for the people of good will. I wish the Minister every success in that discussion. We hope that this discussion can be about anything and that the police also move with society when it comes to representativeness and also about clothing regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u159	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Talsma. I look forward to his further insertion. What he brought forward today promises a great deal of good. So I look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. I threatened to miss a point that I had paid a lot of attention to in the first term, namely the broad discussion. Fortunately, however, when the President asked how far he had come in replying, the Minister said that he was going to deal briefly with a number of points, such as the issue of discrimination and racism and so on, and then things got a little better, partly thanks to the interruptions of colleagues. In my first term, I have also paid a great deal of attention to the security, integrity and complaints departments, because this is a sort of patchwork with a high degree of pluralism, where one's own corps culture is actually ruling. That is what can stand in the way of a cultural change in the police department internally. Such a body culture focuses on the actions of every day and that, if you are not careful, can quickly lead to blurring of standards and blind spots. So I think there should be a lot of attention to that, if that's gonna work out. Then there's the office instruction. As a co-signator, I am under Mrs Veldhoen's motion, but the point of the vulnerable groups -- they just came by the house a little while ago -- they didn't come back. The Minister said that it is difficult to distinguish when a person belongs to a vulnerable group. But my first question was: if that is the case, then it doesn't stand in the way of just leaving that in the instruction? Because after all, it's cult time. This means that if the error of assessment is not reproachable, if it is not later recognised that a woman was pregnant, that someone was clearly over a certain age, or that someone was clearly under 12 years old, it is not punishable anyway. So why take this out just to be clear? There is that clarity now, especially when you are talking about, for example, the use of electric weapons or police dogs. I would like another response from the Minister on that point. Let me just get some good things out of it. The Minister has made it clear that information for victims and relatives must simply be kept in order and that this must not be reduced. The Minister has also made it clear that he used the word "preferred variant" which does not mean that he wants to send the message that the Public Prosecutor will have to start using what is now being arranged. So that's clear. The fact-finding. The Council of State indicated that the investigation into the legality of the use of force is a special investigation. But the Minister has clearly stated that this does not interfere with the truth finding. The minister then used a phrase that intrigues me. He said, quite the contrary. Then I wondered: can there be more in a fact-finding investigation than is possible in a normal, regular investigation? I find that intriguing, but maybe this was a slip of the tongue from the minister. I'd like to hear that from the Minister. Then the police dogs. The Minister said that the instruction in office has now become more precise, but I have great concerns about that. Dogs are not machines and you cannot treat them as such. In practice, they should be constantly under appeal. In practice, this is not always the case. This means that you should not so much teach the dog new tricks, but the dog guide. Maybe he'll have to learn from things he's done so far, but he can't do now. My question is how this is going to be handled properly. Finally. We need to be careful with our investigators. Very economical. They're here for us. For us, they take that step forward. And as I said in the first term, we have serious concerns about this. Major concerns about the outflow that is still coming as a result of the ageing population and major concerns about, for example, the people who are now outflowing with PTSS and are no longer deployable. We have to do something about that with each other, and the question is how. This will then have to take place in the next cabinet period. In any case, it is clear that we must all stand for our investigators, but also that the organisation of investigators as a whole will have to earn the trust of society every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u160	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr Dittrich, on behalf of the D66 Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u161	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. First of all, on behalf of the D66 Group, congratulations to Mr Talsma. A nice story and a good start. Good luck in the years to come. I would like to begin by saying that we very much appreciate the police and the work of the police. When you look at the debate like that and hear the interruptions, it seems as if we are merely criticising, but this is, of course, only about the exceptional situations. That's what I'm saying. The police are generally doing good work in the Netherlands and this needs to be supported. A first word about the instruction of the office, because there is quite a lot being regulated and changed. This is a violation of the fundamental rights of citizens in the Netherlands, so my group considers it very important that the Second and First Chambers should be able to discuss this with the Minister in advance and then approve it. That is why we have co-signed Mrs Veldhoen's motion for a resolution. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to consider the possibility of introducing the right to speak when assessing Article 372 of the Criminal Code. It seems to us to be an important means. So we'll wait and see. The Minister also said how important police training is. Of course it is. Now the core of police work is de-escalating situations where citizens may be very excited. But from the practice I have heard that the de-escalation trainings sometimes catch up and that more often are looked at firearms trainings. They are of course also very important, but my question to the Minister in this second term is whether there is sufficient attention in police training for the de-escalation qualities. I'd like another comment on that. Mr. Chairman. I must confess I've learned something new. During the treatment, it appeared that commune crimes also end up in the special court. I hadn't gotten that out of the pieces. I see the Minister is whispering to me again. We'll find out later if the Minister's gonna tell us that this isn't the case. It was a friendly thing, I hear the Minister say. Good. Keep it that way, I'd say. We have had a whole discussion about the consequences of ethnic profiling, following the figures of the CBS. I maintain, looking coolly at the figures, that people with a non-Western migration background feel much more often that they are being violently treated by the police than the percentage in which they are part of the population in the Netherlands, namely 14%. So that is an over-representation, and that is just what the figures tell us. I'm worried about that. I think that we should continue to look at this and that further research is important. Mr. Chairman. The Minister also said that if the Public Prosecutor decides not to charge a criminal offence, survivors of violence by the police can still have access to the file. That is beautiful in itself, but I also hope that the Public Prosecutor's Office will make generous use of it if these relatives, for example in the context of mourning, need it. So I'd like another response from the Minister. We'll get another letter about the means of violence and the power surge weapon. I'll wait and see. About the bodycams, the minister said they work very de-escalatingly. Two thousand have been purchased and maybe more will come after that. As far as I'm concerned, that's all fine. The Minister also said that there should be a legal framework on the legal status of the carrier of the bodycam. I think that's very important. It has to do with privacy, and it is also about the storage period and the retention period and who all have access to it. That must be well arranged, but in itself D66 can certainly support that there will be more bodycams. About the police dog, the minister was very short. He said, "We've just looked carefully at that." He refers to the Ombudsman's report, among others. If you read it correctly, the Ombudsman says in his report: "The use of the police dog can be very dangerous. Much more needs to be done. It should also be more strictly regulated." Given the new articles 15a and 15b, it is possible in some situations that a police dog is already being used in shoplifting, for example. We think that goes too far. On behalf of a large number of colleagues, I would like to table the next motion. The: Mr Dittrich, Mr Veldhoen, Mr Vos, Mr Backer, Mr Janssen and Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the amended instructions for the police, the Royal Marechaussee and other investigation officers regulate the use of the police dog;]] [[noting that the police dog's involvement in the violence spectrum is seen as the second-largest means of violence;]] [[Whereas the bite of a police dog may cause serious personal injury;]] [[Whereas the proposed regime in Article 15a allows, under circumstances, the use of the police dog in cases of suspicion of a crime involving a prison sentence of four years or more;]] [[Whereas it is reasonable to raise the bar;]] [[calls on the Government to achieve a more stringent clause on the use of the police dog, and to report to the Supreme Court on this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34641-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u162	The Minister said that this evaluation, at the request of the House of Representatives, will take place after four years. Originally, this was five years. All rules are evaluated, including the victim's position. That seems to us to be a good commitment. Mr. Chairman. Then I want to end with the citizen's position when there is a complaint about police action and disciplinary law. The Minister has been rather brief on this too. This discussion has been going on for decades, of course, but now is really the time to change that. That is why I have the next motion, also on behalf of a large number of colleagues. The: Mr Dittrich, Mr Veldhoen, Mr Vos, Mr Backer, Mr Janssen, Mr Nicolaï and Mr Talsma proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in cases where questions have arisen as to police action in a specific situation, the Chief Constable may take a decision on the disciplinary trajectory;]] [[noting that this disciplinary process is an internal procedure exclusively directed by the police leadership through the Department of Security, Integrity and Complaints (VIK);]] [[Whereas this procedure is not transparent, because the review, assessment and sanction decision are only known to the police officer himself, which means that the organisation as a whole is learning too little now, that the citizen is out of play and that there are regional differences in the handling of disciplinary matters;]] [[Whereas citizens cannot initiate disciplinary proceedings against individual agents, while this is well regulated within other professions, such as lawyers, psychologists and accountants;]] [[Whereas the police report Quality of internal investigations of 29 October 2020 recommends the establishment of a national organisational facility (possibly with a flexible shell with internal and external experts) for larger, more complex, politically sensitive or unitary investigations;]] [[expresses its opinion that a form of disciplinary law is desirable for the action of individual police officers, taking into account principles of openness, independence, specific expertise and transparency and with a formal role for citizens/victims;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, taking into account the above, the possibilities of a new disciplinary system of investigation and assessment of the manner in which the police officer acted improperly in concrete situations, and to inform the First Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34641-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u163	Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of my second term by saying that we are waiting with interest for the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u164	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u165	Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group also congratulated Mr Talsma on his maiden speech. It was a clear story. I wish you every success for the coming period. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the clear answer to all the questions. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister for agreeing in this House that the notification form should not be used as a means of proof in a possible criminal procedure. That was something about parliamentary history and the Acts. Mr. Chairman. I won't beat around the bush. My group will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u166	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mr Meijer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u167	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to Mr Talsma. It was a very thorough story. It's nice to have a maiden speech on such a subject, considering your resume, Mr. Talsma. Thank you also to the Minister for replying. For the most part, it confirmed the way we are in this debate. A balance must indeed be struck between the interests of the investigating officer, the victim and society. I have chosen the investigating officer as an angle, but I have certainly taken into account the interests of the other parties. By choosing the investigative officer as an angle, he might have been my best friend, and I refer to Mrs Vos, although I may not have used those words that way. I believe that it is important for the social debate how we ourselves talk about investigators and that we are clearly trying to bring out the balance between incidents and the general picture. We will vote in favour of the bill. The first deadline may have shown that, and that has not changed. I said in my first term that the instruction, which has been discussed a great deal, is separate from this draft law. The office instruction has not been given any other status and I follow the arguments of Mr Rombouts and the Minister on this point. Perhaps that is a very formal attitude, and I would like to say that I also see that democratic control is important. We must also look at our position throughout the debate on power and counterpower. That does not mean that the First Chamber has to discuss all the ministerial arrangements and AMvBs in order to carry out democratic control. I also said this in the treatment of the Temporary Law Covid-19. I say it mainly from the point of view of content, because there have been a number of talks in first and second terms about extending the instruction of the office, and I would also like to give it a positive connotation. More means of violence are available to enable the investigating officer to act more proportionately. One should not separate the instruction of the office from the instruction of violence, where proportionality, subsidiarity, reasonableness and moderation are also mentioned as criteria. This total gives us no reason to be concerned about the enlargement that is now taking place in the instruction of the office, with de-escalation leading the way in the performance. I mentioned some examples from my administrative practice in my first term. Recently, a few months of observership gave me another example by the nightclubs, where the police did nothing but de-escalate. If you then answer in the city council the next day, you will be asked why they have not acted before. It is true that violence is being handled with extreme restraint. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u168	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u169	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Talsma. I wish him every success. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. On a number of important points, the Minister has managed to provide my group with the necessary clarification. I started on behalf of 50PLUS my first term by expressing our appreciation for the police in general. I repeat that in full. My group also endorses the separate criminal law position of the investigating officer in this bill. Considering everything, I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u170	Thank you, Mrs Baay-Timmerman. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Talsma. I think we got a good debater. Mr. Chairman. I was less satisfied with the Minister's answer to my questions. I have begun to outline three cases which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the government, are not covered by the new sentence. Contrary to what the Minister is suggesting, I do not think they are covered by a Community crime either. I believe that, in the three cases I have mentioned, it is not for society to explain that there would be no sanction regime involving the victim. In fact, the Minister himself acknowledged that, because he said: yes, that girl, the schoolgirl with the knee on her neck, will probably have sleepless nights of that, but she has no bodily injury and it is not subject to the penalty. Our group believes that this is unacceptable and I have the next motion, which is supported by others. The: Mr Nicolaï, Mr Veldhoen, Mr Dittrich and Mr Janssen proposed the following motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas, as the Government acknowledges, the use of force by public authorities should be strictly regulated; noting that the bill of lading Violence of an investigative officer only provides for the offence of violating the instructions of violence if this results in physical injury or death; Whereas victims of police violence in violation of the instruction of violence should be protected, even if the offence did not result in physical injury or death, but in other suffering; Whereas such victims, other than those who have suffered physical injury, cannot apply for criminal proceedings and cannot rely on a judge if they are refused to impose sanctions against the police officer who has violated the instruction of violence, who has suffered harm other than physical injury; Whereas it is important for such victims to be able to appeal to a judge if they are refused sanctions against the police officer who has caused them to suffer in violation of violent instruction; calls on the Government to take measures to address this interest, and goes to the order of the day. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets letter N ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u172	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to other victims, which I did not raise in the first term. Those victims are the horses and the dogs. I've seen how the horses are doing on Museumplein; that's right around the corner. I've also seen horses being attacked. There was even a horse once worked with a scoundrel killer. The person who did so was also prosecuted for that. We have seen on television that in Eindhoven a horse went down and ran off in wild and blind panic. They get kicked, they get kicked with fireworks. Unlike policemen, who can say "I don't want to go to the ME," horses don't have a choice not to participate in the action against public violence. Then the question is whether it is still of this time to use horses in matters such as demonstrations. My question to the Minister is whether it is possible to refrain from using horses in such situations. Is the Minister prepared to have that investigated? After the horses I get to the dogs. I heard Mr Janssen say that dogs are not machines. That's right, but they're trying to make machines out of it. They're under heavy training. The dogs are hit and the dogs are treated with electric shocks. We have recently seen footage of this, and three years ago in the Rambam television programme there were shocking images and stories. At that time, the Minister said, here, that there were incidents. But is it? The president of the Brabant association who trained those dogs said: "Such methods are necessary because otherwise you cannot control the dogs." Last year there was a ban on using power devices in dogs, but the ban on doing so does not apply to the police and to the Defense Department. And Minister Schouten said: "It is not always possible to use power-trained dogs without using power." Dogs get beaten up and turned into killers, and you've got to keep assaulting them to keep them under control. If you see how those dogs on the Museumplein go crazy and how often the dog guides have problems controlling the dogs, then you hold your heart. The dogs have become killer machines. They weren't, but they were made by humans. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dittrich has already pointed out that the Ombudsman has warned and said how dangerous these dogs are. We have also heard Mr Dittrich ask whether we should start using power surge weapons. The Minister will investigate this as well. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to ban the use of dogs in demonstrations, and to use dogs only for exceptional situations. Think of a terrorist with a bomb or something. Those were my questions. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u173	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Mr Van Wely has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u174	Mr. Chairman. The Nanninga Group would also like to congratulate Mr Talsma. Mr. Chairman. We are also aware that violence is very sensitive. This means that the instruction must be very clear and proportionate. Following the Minister's encouraging words, we would like to encourage the implementation of bodycams with the next motion. The: Mr Van Wely, Mr Beukering, Mr Berkhout and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that: bodycams are a valuable addition to police work; wearing bodycams is de-escalating and preventive; wearing bodycams reduces aggression and violence; bodycams can have added value in the burden of proof; the experiences of wearing bodycams are positive; Whereas: to contribute to the safety and security of both the investigating officer and the citizen; bodycams contribute to transparency; invites the Government, where appropriate, to provide search officers with bodycams in a enforcement role, and goes to the order of the day. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets letter O ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u175	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to congratulate and welcome Mr Talsma and congratulate him on his maiden speech. He's promising a lot. Mr. Chairman. I too am not very satisfied with the answer given by this Minister, our Minister, our all-in-Office of the Council. I asked three questions. The first was: did you talk to the national police about ethnic profiling and discrimination against certain sections of the population? I didn't get an answer. At least I didn't hear that answer. My second question was about the possibility of extending the criminal liability of investigators. The Minister's answer was: that is not the intention. But that wasn't my question. My question was not whether he wants to or intends to do so, but whether it is reasonable. Is it to be expected that this will be the case quantitatively? The third question was: how do you intend to organise the evaluation? In fact, I have only been given an answer when this evaluation is to take place, namely after four years rather than after five years. I hope to hear more in the second term. Then there are spicy motions filed, Mr. Chairman. I need to think this through, and I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion in a moment. I don't think it's all very consistent. It does not fit in with being very complimentary to the police, and then even harder to intervene in the arrangements. For the last half minute, I'm just gonna focus on the front suspension procedure. I just want to say one more time what I said this morning. It is an instruction to the person who has to give instructions that is the government to officials who are actually carrying out the execution, and I really think it is very important that this Chamber retains and fulfills its role, and it does not pollute that role by sitting in the chair of the government. That culture that exists here, I think we should all guard it. Otherwise, we will undermine the legitimacy of this Chamber and thus undermine the democratic rule of law, with the First Chamber as the bearer of that rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u176	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u177	Mr. Chairman. Once again, congratulations to Mr Talsma for his maiden speech, with which he showed great expertise on the subject of the present legislative proposal. We welcome the substantive knowledge and practical knowledge that Mr Talsma brings to this Chamber. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. Mr. Chairman. A split second. That concept came across a number of times, also in my first contribution. I also heard it with a number of others and the Minister noticed it as well. Police officers often have to decide on the use of violence in rapidly escalating situations under very high pressure of time, in a split second. In the vast majority of cases, this is proportionate and proportionate to the objective pursued, and the use of violence is moderate. Mrs. Vos of the PvdA talked about the time she grew up with the slogan "The police is your best friend." I remember from my childhood in the 1970s the campaign "That hat fits us all." In the meantime, we are living in a different time, in which selection, training and training of investigators is much more advanced than in the youth of Mrs.Fox and myself. These investigators are therefore generally well able to apply proportionately in a split second of violence. Therefore, it is also an improvement in this bill that investigators are not automatically regarded as suspects in such situations. If a criminal case is then brought against an investigating officer, this is done on the basis of this law before the specialised court of the Central Netherlands, so that knowledge building can take place. Nor is it unimportant that investigators experience consistent case law on what is and is not permitted in the split second in which they have to make the decision whether or not violence should be applied. Mr. Chairman. As is well known, our group wants to make a major modernisation effort for the Netherlands. This bill is a good example of this and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u178	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Talsma, on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u179	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I would like to thank you, Mr President, and all my fellow Members for their warm reactions to my address and their good wishes. I look forward to a very good cooperation and good debates, however comfortable it was that you all wanted to keep to the courtesy of non-interruption. I would also like to thank the Minister for his good wishes, but also for the first-term response. I do have a few points I would like to highlight. I'll start with the concentration assessment after all. I will not turn it into a rearguard fight, but I hear the Minister say that the split second argument and the operational conditions are so important and so relevant, and that it is about how someone is trained or not. When it comes to this sort of thing, I gradually wonder more and more why the Minister has not chosen the parallel with military criminal justice, with the military member in the chamber. Should there be a blue member? I asked the Minister about that in the first place. I'm very curious if the Minister still wants to go into that. In the past, both the incumbent and the standing magistrates of the Supreme Court have sometimes been accused of having insufficient situational awareness, and this concerns the case of Eric O. That could be the case here. I am very curious whether the Minister has any further thoughts on this. An important point for my group was what I mentioned the balancing exercise. If the Minister himself had not made that comparison, I would never have dared, but in the answer I really heard the second-hand car salesman. The minister said something like: of course that is included in the training. That sounded a lot to me, with due respect, if: always dealer maintenances, always inside, were of an old lady. Honestly, I think that's too weak a reaction. For my group, this is a very important point. Those IBT training moments for the police, or maybe they're called OBT again these days, if I'm not mistaken, at best three times a year, if they don't fall out because of something, and are largely filled with weapons leather, weapons training, weapons testing. And then it's a little bit about de-escalating what Mr Dittrich was talking about. He thought that was too little, and I can imagine. This is precisely the question of how to escalate proportionally. I don't really hear the Minister about that. I think it is extremely important that we support policemen in this way. I would like a more robust response or commitment from the Minister on that point. And then two more actual things. I repeat the question as to whether the results of the fact-finding investigation can be transferred one-on-one, so without any limitation, to the investigation. An answer yes is enough for me, because then we know where we stand, I say on behalf of the people in the field who still have to work with these things. And then there is the question of the right of silence versus the obligation of consolidation. The Minister did mention this point when it comes to making a statement as a witness, but not when it comes to the obligation to ban it. I would very much like to know what the Minister thinks about this point, if only for its feasibility and for practice. With that in mind, I look forward with interest to the Minister's response in the second term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u180	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. Go ahead, Mr. Rombouts. Mr. Rombouts has another interruption for you, Mr. Talsma. Your maiden speech is over. You may now be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u181	I'm painfully aware of that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u182	I don't want to interrupt, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a point of order. Is it really not conceivable that we are going to do the rejoinder now? Because if I'm right, we've walked into your schedule for over an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u183	We're just gonna walk out of here again, unless you give me the floor back. We are going to ask Members first if one of them wishes to speak in the second term. That is not the case. Then I ask the Minister if he has the opportunity to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u184	Mr. President, may I have two minutes and 45 seconds suspension? Then as far as I'm concerned, we can move on. That gives the opportunity to set up the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u185	Well, they don't need two minutes for that, but I'm still suspending, in your best interest, until 4:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u186	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u187	I start with the questions that remain and then I come up with a response to the motions. I will start with Mrs Veldhoen's question on how police deployment is monitored for everyone. The chief of police is also responsible for this issue. I am very confident that the Chief Constable here, as it is called in good French, will make it chefsache. In addition, the police also set up an expert and independent reflection group called "Police' in the proposal, which will advise four times a year, asked and unsolicited, on the implementation of Police for all. So this is actually already avant la question dealt with by the police. I would also like to offer a briefing on this. Then we can make it a whole briefing day: in the morning about the power surge gun and in the afternoon about this. The Chief Constable might be prepared to explain in such a briefing how this is now being handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u188	Thank you to the Minister for this gesture. I'm glad the Chief Constable can provide us with input for this. The minister says four times a year is reported. Is that also shared with the Chamber, across the street and then possibly here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u189	That will certainly be a form of information sharing with the House of Representatives, because there are half-yearly reports and we report and talk about these things in that context. Whether this will happen on a quarterly basis, I do not know exactly, but at least every six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u190	Is the Minister prepared to share those reports with us in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u191	I'll admit I'll take that up with the Chief Constable, because I don't want to burden him with all of that. The offer he's coming through here is in any case, if the Chamber wanted it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u192	I'd love to, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u193	Then there's the stun gun. That's what Mrs. Vos of the PvdA asked for. The year 2026 comes from the original planning of the roll-out of the power surge weapon. The updated planning is that the introduction starts at the beginning of 2022 and is ready by the end of that year. Of course, you have to give it a little time to evaluate it. Let's just say, if that helps, we could start evaluating by 2025. That's a bit earlier. That's what I want to say here. I would just like to say to Mr Dittrich that Mr Frank Pauw fully supports the introduction of the power surge weapon, in the way I have outlined it. Mr Janssen had questions about the fact-finding. It is not the case that in a fact-finding investigation there can be more than in a normal criminal investigation. The question of whether the use of violence has taken place in accordance with the instruction of violence is simply being investigated. To this end, a number of investigative powers may be exercised which may also be exercised in a regular inquiry. The difference is that the investigating officer does not have to be regarded as a suspect in the investigation. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the criteria for vulnerable groups. In its opinion on the legislative proposal, the Council of State stressed the importance of the lex-certa principle in the light of the criminalisation. The criteria for vulnerable groups in the deployment criteria do not comply with the lex-certa principle. There are many reasons for this. It is not always clear whether a person belongs to a vulnerable group. On the basis of these criteria, if that is clear, we need to consider how to deal with it further. But these criteria may give the impression that the means of violence may or may always be used in cases not covered by the instructions. Mr Janssen also asked how good arrangements can be made for the dog guides to learn the new rules. The police are in the process of strengthening the implementation of the deployment of police dogs. This includes the mode of engagement and the method of training. These now formal rules are discussed in detail. Mr Dittrich asked whether it was possible to deal generously with the supervision of family members. I have here with Mr Dittrich the expectation that it will be possible to make use of it. Among other things, Mr Dittrich asked about the de-escalation qualities in the subject of training and training. I can confirm that de-escalation is an important part of both basic training and regular training of police officers. Structural attention is paid to de-escalating actions. Trainings are adapted to current cases and practical contexts, creating awareness about situations where de-escalating action is desirable. The use of force is always an ultimatum remedium. Is it possible to refrain from using horses? Of course, that's not about this bill, but no. There's a lot attached to this bill, but that's not specific. Horses are extremely effective in spreading large groups of people and, of course, they act as carefully as possible so that the horse does not become a victim. Without horses, the police will have to use more force. Can the use of dogs in demonstrations be prohibited and applied only in exceptional situations? Well, no. If police dogs are taken from the decorators, they'll verify how they've been trained. Mistreated animals aren't part of the police's home. Furthermore, I have already said what is needed on how to deal with it further, in response to Mr Dittrich's previous question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u194	I had asked whether the Minister was prepared to do research or whether less use of dogs could be made of demonstrations. As well as research can be done as to whether it is necessary to introduce a power surge weapon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u195	No. The rules for dogs have been tightened. The way dogs are used now and later in this context is really balanced. I do not see any reason to go back to the question of whether this should be changed. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rombouts pointed out that I did not answer his question. I'm sorry if that's what happened. In my first reply, I felt that I did indeed say that I had a discussion with the corps leadership on this issue, because I think that we should deal with these matters much more from the point of view of the officers in the workplace themselves. I may not have said that explicitly enough. I have literally said that I have had the necessary contact over the last few weeks. From the beginning, I said that ethnic profiling is something we don't do. There can be no misunderstanding about that. Then about the proportional escalation. If police violence is applied, it must be proportionately reasonable and moderate. These principles are extensively addressed in both initial and periodic training for police officers. In essence, that is a bit about which I had the exchange of views with Mr Dittrich on the matter of escalating. This is the kind of thing where a lot of instruction is given. Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then there was Mr Rombouts' question as to whether the introduction of Article 372 would lead to more persecutions. I have already indicated in the first term that we do not believe that it will lead to more prosecutions. It is not a question of creating more room for criminal liability on the part of the investigating officer. It concerns those cases where you are already allowing criminal treatment and prosecution on the basis of a description of the crime that focuses on the alleged conduct, which I have always referred to as the 'culpoze crime'. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the motions. I'll start with the motion Veldhoen c.s. with the letter "K." It calls for parliamentary involvement to be ensured with regard to the instruction of the office by means of a pending procedure. The bill introduces a criminalisation of the violence instruction, the instruction of which is part. But the office instruction doesn't change. Even if it had not been for the legislative proposal, I would have had the instruction adapted and updated in the near future, because that is simply necessary. The legislative proposal deals with the assessment of the use of violence and not with the rules on the use of violence itself. Thus, as in the context of general crimes of violence, the criminal court, under the proposed Article 372, assesses the use of violence on the basis of the instruction of violence. The only difference is that through the bill, the Public Prosecutor has an alternative to prosecuting the general crimes of violence. This is generally more appropriate because it focuses on the role and power of violence of the investigating officer. As Mr Rombouts pointed out, an instruction from the executive authority is addressed to the investigators who do the executive work. I still support the legislator's choice not to preside over the instruction of the office. Of course, it is up to the Minister of Justice and Security to answer to Parliament about the choices I make there. I refer once again to what Mr Rombouts has said and what I have said. This is precisely the instruction that the government must give and for which the government must take responsibility. When it comes to greater changes, for example the introduction of a new means of violence, this is, of course, discussed with Parliament in advance. Then there is certainly influence on matter at the front. I advise against this motion. Then the Dittrich c.s. motion. with the letter L, the motion for a more stringent clause for the use of the police dog. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. With the inclusion of the current limit, the bar for the stakes is already going up with regard to the present situation, taking full account of the recommendations of the Ombudsman and the Advisory Committee. Then I come to the Dittrich c.s. motion. with the letter M. It invites the Government to examine the possibilities of a new disciplinary system of investigation and assessment of how the police officer has acted improperly in concrete situations. The quality of disciplinary decisions is sufficiently guaranteed within the current system. In addition, the system enables the police to learn from violence and that is an important pillar of the whole system review. If we now transfer the assessment of breaches of standards to a disciplinary college, the Chief Constable will lose an important and appropriate means of fulfilling his duties. Then he should no longer be allowed to judge matters that have already been dealt with by such a college. For this reason alone, I would not like to invest in an external disciplinary college. The legality of that decision may be checked by an independent third party, namely the administrative judge. In addition, an external member also sits on the committee that advises the police chief in the assessment of violence. This ensures the quality and consistency of disciplinary decisions in the police. The system of police disciplinary law is a tried and tested system, which has proved itself more than once. Finally, I would like to point out that the comparison with disciplinary law in the legal profession is really not relevant, because it is precisely the lawyer who takes an independent oath and, in principle, is also active as such in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u196	Mr Nicolaï, another brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u197	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister say that legality can be judged by the administrative judge. That is the legality that is tested when the policeman concerned appeals. However, the victim or the person who considers the disciplinary punishment desirable will not be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u198	I was just looking for my answer on this point. The disciplinary law is primarily aimed at discipline from the profession or from the profession. Of course, an interested party can file a complaint with a request for disciplinary punishment, but it is primarily a question of punishment. Therefore, it is also called disciplinary law in the context of its own working environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u199	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u200	The Minister spoke about Mr Dittrich's motion calling for a disciplinary procedure. A disciplinary process is intended for those who have become victims. They may then ask for disciplinary action. The disciplinary process the Minister is talking about is an internal one. So I do not understand why the Minister, in his response to the motion, comes up with something other than a reaction to the motion as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u201	A victim has opportunities to file criminal charges. He could start a civil procedure. He can go to the Ombudsman. Victims may also be able to enter into disciplinary proceedings. I explained that a disciplinary procedure is a matter which is in and around the working environment, i.e. in the Council of Discipline, in the legal profession, or in the VIK, as it is regulated internally by the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u202	Now that the Minister has discouraged Mr Dittrich's motions, I would like to withdraw the support for the motions under the letters L and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u203	You want to remove your signature under those motions? It's not that simple. We take it up in the Acts and look at the time when we vote exactly how this is going to be done. Minister, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u204	Then I come to the motion under letter N of Mr Nicolaï. I'm gonna dissuade that motion, too. In my first term, I had a detailed exchange of views with Mr Nicolaï on why. In short, there are other ways of condemning non-injury behavior in any way, whether criminal or otherwise. So I advise against that motion, referring to my more detailed argument. Finally, I have Mr Talsma's question. Military criminal law is applied to military personnel. In a criminal case against an investigative officer, there is always ordinary criminal law. In the exchange of views with Mr Dittrich, I had to admit that I myself learned something today, which is why I looked at him so kindly when he admitted that about himself, namely that the commune crime ended up with that special judge. But that is a real difference from the military. Mr. Chairman. Then I have the motion under letter O on the bodycams. I have already said in the first term that I am in favour of bodycams, but that this does require study on further legislation. I am therefore in favour of it. I could ask Mr Dittrich to hold the motion. I apologise to Mr Van Wely, I will confuse you until I have come back to your Chamber on what further legislation would be needed on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u205	Should the Minister be as reluctant about this motion as the operative part says "where appropriate"? It can only be done if the Minister wants it and if it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u206	That's the motion under "O"? Where appropriate? Mr Rombouts is helping me, as is often the case, out of a certain degree of fire. If we can actually read 'where appropriate' as 'if it can be resolved in the legislation', then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. But that's the way it should be, because there really are a few privacy hiccups in there and I've learned to be very careful about that by now. Therefore, if I may read it as 'calling on the government, where this is possible in the case of further investigation in the legislation, to provide the investigators with bodycams', then I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u207	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-20-eerstekamer-7.u208	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that the vote on the bill be taken after the May part-session on 11 May. I also propose that we vote on the motions that have been tabled. I shall suspend the sitting until 8:45 p.m., at which time the interplay debate will take place which we announced earlier today.
