ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u1	If you can continue the cozy talks about Defense in the hallway, we'll make it a little more selective and leave the spokesperson's financial affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u2	The next item is Part Two of the Tax Plan. The Minister of the Interior is already eagerly impatient. We always appreciate that youthful enthusiasm. Today we are talking about a lot of money and seven tax plans, so we need to do this right. That's very important. However, there is another interest, and that is the importance of time. Last year we ended at 17 minutes after midnight and then we started at about this time. I'd appreciate it if we could finish earlier today. Shall we do eight interruptions per group? I think that's enough. Six, says D66, so we'll compromise seven. No, the SP says. Going once, going twice, we'll just do eight. But it's not an obligation, so you don't have to. Furthermore, the interruptions are always short and pointy with me. So not the whole history of taxes over the last 5,000 years, but just a sentence, another sentence and another sentence and then a question. That's an interruption. I am also sure that the directors, whom I warmly welcome, are going to do so and are very short and businesslike. The Secretary of State who is talking to Mrs Beckerman now has a name to uphold in that area, so I hope he will continue to do so today. I am happy to give the floor first to the Minister for the Interior, because she is going to answer the questions that have been asked about residence. That's gonna be about the rental charge, et cetera. On Monday we also have a nice WHO about living. So that's what you can get your egg to live on. I'm in charge of that, too. I sometimes think: to what do I owe it all? So on Monday we're going to talk about living extensively again, but today we're going to do the same. I call the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can I say, then, that I always appreciate your presidency?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u4	That's what I needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u5	That's what I thought. Everyone needs that sometimes. I thought I'd do it today. I listened very carefully yesterday and I hope that this will also make up for the fact that I unfortunately had to opt out last week because of illness. Very annoying, but "in case of illness, stay at home" is the motto and I have kept to it. I listened very carefully yesterday. I would like to express my appreciation for the re-evaluation of the boring debate. Yesterday it was said for a reason that it cannot always crack and be politically exciting, because boring debates are just about content and legislative technique. They're important. Now I would not suggest at all that the financial and tax specialists present here are boring. On the contrary! But boring debates are important. I am also a great supporter of the compromise, I say right away. I hope that will benefit me and yours in this debate. Several questions have been asked, in particular regarding the landlord levy, but also wider about the housing market. As the chairman said, there is a legislative consultation on Monday. A number of subjects will undoubtedly come back. However, I do understand the attention that is paid to this. It's very high on the agenda for a lot of people. It is also high on our political agenda and we have been working on it. The reduction in the landlord levy, which is in the proposals today, contributes to this. The cabinet sent a document, also at the request of Mr Omtzigt, on 5 October last, which states what the cabinet has done to stimulate housing. In it are building blocks for a next cabinet. I will go into the questions that have been asked about this, but I would like to refer to it to make the whole thing complete. Mr President, I should like to do this. I would first like to answer all the questions and comments about the landlord tax. That's about everything, from the fare to the performance agreements. Then I will address some questions about the objective of housing, affordability, sustainability, the tax system and the housing fund. With that, I hope to be complete in my answer. I hope it's not incomplete, but you'll give me a signal. The landlord's tax. Many speakers yesterday asked about the rise of the landlord levy and the reduction of 500 million and how these two relate to each other. Mr Nijboer, Mr Grinwis, Mrs Beckerman and others asked for more clarity on the figures. I have written a lot in the written answer on this. I would like to stress here that the reduction of 500 million that we are now doing with each other has a substantial effect that really affects the investment capacity of the corporation sector. It is true, of course, that the increase in the World Health Organization also has an effect on the revenue from the levy, but let us keep an eye on it and put it first that we would have a very different picture if we did not do that reduction of 500 million. The landlord's tax is not only reduced by the 500 million, but also 151 million in compensation for the reduction in interest rates and 180 million in compensation for the freezing of rents. So we are talking about a reduction of 831 million. The increase in the World Health Organisation, which is working against this, will indeed destroy this reduction after a number of years. In the written answer you have seen that this is in 2030 if you look at the whole. If you only look at the 500 million, it'll be in 2025. I would also like to stress that I have said this in other debates in the House, and I have also highlighted that in parts I have sent to the Chamber, it is true that the rise in the landlord's levy due to the rise in WPA is a problem for the sector. We've faced that before. You could improve that. I have outlined a possible solution to this problem in the reports. Since it has a negative impact on the investment capacity of the housing corporations, you could make an annual tariff adjustment to offset the effect you don't want to offset. Then you stabilize the landlord's tax. I also said at the time that this obviously has budgetary implications. That's why we left it to the next cabinet. Maybe I can go into Mr Nijboer's amendment with, I think, Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Bromet early in my term. I fully understand the objective of that amendment, but the amendment goes beyond what I have outlined in the letter of intent and means. The amendment is not even based on an inflation correction for the proceeds of the landlord's levy, so it is de facto leading to a reduction in revenue. Moreover, the amendment only provides for a correction for rising WMD values and not for the reverse. That would make sense, I think. If the reverse is the case, you have to take it with you, otherwise there will be an asymmetry and all the budgetary risks lie with the Empire. It will not surprise Mr Nijboer that I also draw attention to the coverage of the amendment, because I heard him say yesterday in his own term that it costs nothing. I would like to have that magic wand, but it is often with magic wands that they do not turn out to exist. In fact, the budget has already taken account of the increase in the WPA, so there is a budgetary loss if you do it as the PvdA proposes. It rises from 100 million in 2022 to 600 million in structural terms. I can already tell you that I cannot help but dissuade this amendment. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik zou …]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u7	...maybe just want to wait for the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u8	I get that about inflation. That's in all taxes, so you could put that another way. But to understand it equally well: in principle, if you have a budget and an estimate for the coming years, there is already an increase in the value of the houses. If you pin that down, it won't cost you any money, I'd say, otherwise you're lucky. Mr Grinwis I look behind me, but he is not there yesterday. He said that this increase is already more than in the budget. Then you should actually raise the budget. You'll have extra money. However, just to make this clear: if you add that to inflation, because that is the point I understand, I do just do as it says in the budget, and if you set it down, it doesn't cost money, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u9	In fact, I wanted to address Mr Grinwis' question precisely, because it is of course related to this. The WPA value development is in the budget. It is on average one and a half years behind the actual development of house prices. For the WMD value development, the CPB estimate is used. That's how it's in the pieces. So I do not have as much concern as Mr Grinwis said yesterday about the robustness of the estimate, which I believe is anchored in the fact that we are taking the World Trade Organisation value of one and a half years after the actual price development. That means that the estimate for next year hardly needs to be adjusted, because you are in a way on time. So I don't think that estimate is the problem. The problem with Mr Nijboer's proposal, as I have just outlined, is that he assumes that this increase in the World Health Organization is no longer part of our budget estimates. That's exactly what he's doing. That also means that his amendment costs money. I understand that you could also choose to do so, but that is precisely why I said: it is logical not to do so now, at this missionary stage, but to leave it to the new cabinet. Then you also have more insight into what is going to happen to the landlord tax at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u10	I stand beside Mrs Beckerman and she has a sensible suggestion. She says, "What if we just put that down for next year?" I hope that there will be a new cabinet that will take further action. Then this wouldn't go on. Then you don't have that walk-up. The Minister says the estimate is correct. She actually says: Mr Grinwis was wrong. It wouldn't cost money, would it? In any case, we have assured that next year there will not be another windfall for the State and for the housing corporations and tenants there will be a setback.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u11	That makes it different, but that also applies to the fact that I can only speak here for what is happening on the part of the outgoing cabinet at the moment. I cannot predict what a new cabinet intends to do with the landlord levy and, by the way, with other measures in the housing market. Of course, Mr Nijboer or Mrs Beckerman is free to amend the amendment and only to do something for one year. We'll have to take a look at that again. I'm always willing to do anything. I told you, compromise is my middle name. But I don't know if that's very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr Nijboer has now betrayed that I was secretly proposing a compromise behind the scenes, so I shall continue to do so. This is interesting. We know that the Minister, like us, is in favour of complete abolition. She's stuck now. She's getting a little hostage. But this proposal, which is a year and a half behind, should not be so difficult. Surely that compromise is not feasible either?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u13	Look, the question is, what kind of problem do you really want to solve? Thanks to the Chamber of General Political Reviews, we have agreed on a substantial reduction of 500 million. Moreover, the tax rebates are, of course, very substantial. In fact, they are likely to pick up more next year, because this year's correction was largely due to the fact that these tax rebates could not be collected. So that's gonna happen next year. I would like to make the sum one more time, but I really wonder if that is the best way to hunt down housing and help the housing corporations a little bit. We have put a lot of other instruments into this. I'm going to look again at how that would come out of it. I'd like to admit that, but my reasoning remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u14	Well, that's interesting, of course. Maybe I can help the minister a little bit more. Last year, 400 million more in landlord tax was collected than previously estimated. That was because the construction was slowing down. It is already warned that construction is slowing down again this year. That could mean that corporations pay more. And that money can of course also be used for affordability and improvement and sustainability of homes. These are all things the Minister should endorse. And it doesn't cost the missionary cabinet any money. I hope these arguments will also help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u15	Of plans that do not cost us money, I am very much in favour of building houses, affordability and sustainability. But those tax rebates have already been granted. The only question is when they can be collected. Part of that didn't work out this year. Then it shifts to next year, but it does not matter for the sector as a whole whether it is obtained this year or next year. I have answered Mr Grinwis. There is also an amendment by Mrs Beckerman on abolishing the landlord levy. The imbalance between tasks and resources of housing corporations in the long term has long been recognised and recognised by the cabinet. Because of these incentives, the discount on the landlord's tax, we have already done a number of things about this. There's another 500 million. I think it is very sensible, and I have always tried to bring it to the attention of the informers, too. A comprehensive approach is actually needed. You can already see that such a turnoff of 500 million on the whole on the total investment capacity has a huge impact, but also that in the long term, if you continue with it, the investment capacity will get back in the tighter. So that actually calls for an integrated approach, a solution to that problem of housing corporations, by the way, embedded in a much broader package of issues such as the land positions of municipalities, the capacity of construction companies and that kind of thing. I hope, and have great confidence, that good plans are being made by the forming parties at the moment. Then there's the performance agreements. I am referring to the 500 million referred to by Mrs Van Dijk, Mr Aartsen, Mr Grinwis and others. They stressed the importance of agreements with the sector. I sent a letter about that. You can read in it that I am indeed working with Aedes to reach agreements on construction, sustainability and so on, so as to make the most effective use of the resources that are simply released by this tariff reduction. In doing so, I do note that it is about a tariff reduction, which is something other than a tax reduction linked to a plan. So that's something other than an immediate enforceable appointment. We have no legal instruments for this. I do think that Aedes, the representative of the housing organizations, is very constructive in this and that Aedes would like to make concrete and manageable arrangements with me and with this Chamber. I think it's important that if you have those macro appointments, you can transfer them to the local level, where they do, of course, make those performance agreements. So that's what's going on. I think we can agree on the goal. I note that it is said from the Chamber that they want this as concretely as possible and that they will soon be able to look back at what the housing corporations and the municipalities are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you to the Minister for replying to this section. I understand, of course, that it is a different instrument and that it is complicated to make agreements on it. On the other hand, you can of course agree between both parties what you want, regardless of tariff discounts, tax discounts or whatever. When does the Minister think that she can come to a deal, to agreements on performance, with the housing corporations to make a link between the money we are now sending to the corporations? Technically, it may be different, but the intention of these resources is that they are, of course, intended for additional housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u17	Sure. These resources are already there. That is a step that we can take now, and that is why these conversations are still ongoing, and I would like to conclude. Who knows, but it means I'd like to do it before the formation ends. Of course I have no prior information or anything like that, but I do have a bit of a hurry to finish the appointments with Aedes. I hope that will be enough for Mr Aartsen to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u18	Looks like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u19	Good. I'll do that by recording it in a covenant or something. So I can also send that covenant to the Chamber, so that the Chamber can see what those appointments are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u20	I was just chewing on this answer. Yesterday we were surprised by all kinds of news media. The formation can, of course, in theory be a rather variable concept when it comes to deadlines, so I think it is good, also because the Tax Plan is being voted on in both Chambers, to put it behind and see if you can reach agreements, for example before the First Chamber votes on this Tax Plan. It seems real to me that this is the timetable, because there is also a political link between the resources that are exempted and the building of houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u21	If I am not mistaken, the First Chamber will vote in favour of the Christmas celebrations on the Tax Plan. Yeah, that's right. So I think this is feasible. At least that is my objective. I will come back to that on Monday in the legislative consultation and confirm that this is indeed going to work. In this context, Mrs Van Dijk had a few justified comments. It is, of course, about the agreements with housing corporations, the landlord's tax, the tax rebates, etc. But of course more is needed, even though you've done it perfectly. For example, it takes land to build. Capacity is also needed and building materials and people are needed. This may be a little out of order in today's debate, but I think it is so right that I should mention it. Several studies have also been carried out, for example by the EIB. The EIB sees uncertainties and price increases, but at the same time sees opportunities. It sees the possibility of getting and maintaining capacity growth at a level so that we can achieve the necessary housing in the coming years, ten years. So the EIB is actually saying that in the medium term there is a possibility of building between 90 000 and 100 000 homes per year. That is exactly what it takes to meet the deficits that are now in place. We are, by the way, fully in the process of zooming in on the problems of capacity in industrial construction, for example, because this will, of course, allow you to scale up. Then I come to Mr Omtzigt's point. He asked about the goals for housing in the coming years. I just referred to the letter of October 5th, which contains the numbers I just mentioned. The goal is to build 900,000 homes until 2030. The current deficit is slightly below 300,000. In the past period we have built an average of 75,000 homes per year. Last year, that was 80,000. That was gross modo 70,000 new build homes and 10,000 transformation homes. Historically, those are very high numbers. Yet we know that more is needed. But we also know now that's relevant, I think what you have to do to get it done. You really can't just leave that to the free forces of the market. We have pulled this very hard, with residential deals, with financial contributions through the Housing Impulse, by helping municipalities with flex pools that have a bottleneck in terms of capacity. So it's not gonna happen on its own. It has to be planned, it has to be agreed and it has to be customized. One urban region is quite different from another. So it really needs to be done very well together with the local and regional directors and with the people who know how to do these things on the ground. Then there's the affordable rent, a subject that Mrs Beckerman and I always talk about a lot. She asked what else we're gonna do for that affordability. This year, of course, much has already been done. Think of the freezing of rents, which Mrs Beckerman has worked very hard to achieve. We have also made a one-off rent reduction for people with the lowest incomes in the social sector. These are, of course, measures that have helped people structurally. Mr President, I see Mr Omtzigt. I don't rule out him wanting to go back to the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u22	That's right. What are the concrete goals for the coming year and the following year as regards the number of rentals, residential properties and also affordable rental and purchase properties that come with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u23	For the coming year, I think we should get that 80,000 again. So that's the same target as for the past year. Whatever the exact relationship between rent and purchase is, you can't really say in that rudeness. Of course, you can say that by region and by municipality, because that is where the agreements are finally made. It also varies from region to region, of course. One municipality says "we have so many social homes here; we really want to bet a little more on affordable buy," but the opposite also happens. So that's really different. Anyway, Mr Omtzig knows that like no other. It depends on what you're looking at, so to which part of the Netherlands, to which municipality and to which region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u24	I'm glad there's a number. Would the government be prepared to include this objective in the Housing budget, as a policy objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u25	I think these figures are just in the housing budget. I will look into that, because then we can discuss it further on Monday; at least if Mr Omtzigt is also present in this debate. The numbers are also in the pieces we sent to the Chamber about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u26	80,000 is the target. What are the goals of the following years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u27	The goals of the years that followed I actually just outlined. We know that in the end we have to increase it to 100,000 a year. We think we need an intermediate step: 80,000, 90,000, 100,000. After that, we have to keep those 100,000 a year for a number of years, actually over the next cabinet period. Then you will arrive in 2030 at about 900,000 additional homes, which are also needed over that period. Sometimes people think we're short 900,000 homes now. That's not true. There are now, out of my mind, 279,000. But just because of the changing population composition and the growth of the population, we need 900,000 additional homes over that period of nine to ten years. I'm going back to the affordability and the rent discount. I would also like to add to Mrs Beckerman that, of course, we have also reduced rent increases in both the free sector and the social sector. We had an extensive exchange of views on this before and we finally agreed on the freezing of rents. She's working on it, of course. Mrs Beckerman talked about the possibility of helping affordability even further. She mentioned the rent allowance, which, of course, makes sense in the context of this debate. It does indeed make an important contribution to the affordability of rents for tenants. Of course, we didn't sit still there either. Mrs Beckerman knows the letter from my colleague Van Huffelen following the Lodders motion on quick fixes. It includes, for example, the proposal to allow rent surcharges above the liberalisation limit. That's the kind of business we do. The measures included in the rent surcharge, of course, also cost money. The freezing of rents and the reduction in rents for low incomes have also cost money. We must therefore always make that precise assessment. That is why we have compensated the housing corporations again, because the housing corporations must also ensure sufficient new construction, sufficient sustainability and even maintenance of the homes they have. I do not consider any further choices to be excluded here, but I do find it difficult as a outgoing minister to go further in this matter than we have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u28	The rent freeze for the social sector expires on 1 July. At the moment, inflation is quite high. This often means that the rents go up quite a bit. The SP thinks that's undesirable. I would like to hear what the Minister thinks about that. What does she think of a real rent increase from 1 July? Or does she want to go through with the freeze or does she even want a cut? We would welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u29	The rent freeze and reduction for the group to which it applied, of course, is structural. It is therefore not the case that it will suddenly come back on 1 July and that there will be an increase on top of that. If we leave it that way, the landlords will be sitting with the deal we have: inflation plus up to 1%. Mrs Beckerman said that inflation is rising, so that means that the rents are going up. We have always said that we want people to have inflation corrected in a different way, i.e. through their income, whether they are out of work or not. We have always defined it as something that is not in the rent that is asked, but in the way we look at people's purchasing power. That's where the inflation is supposed to be. So I do not think that we should be alarmed if inflation increases, but that it is of course relevant to the cabinet, to the Minister for Social Affairs, to the Minister for Housing and to the Finance Ministers to see how this overall works out for purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u30	That is in theory very nice, but in practice that means that tenants who are in a wind-up house, for example, are going to pay a lot more for their energy bill. It is precisely the rise in gas prices that also leads to higher inflation. If the Minister says "we don't do income policy through rent," how would she regulate income policy through income? Because the group that is in such a bad label house is really going to pay double, double, double, while we know that many of those people are already financially stuck. The minister says she doesn't want to do it through the rent, but does the cabinet have a view on that? Because it's going to add up very soon, actually already, for the people who can't afford the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u31	That is a very good point and it is also very well timed, because I was just about to talk about what is under the beautiful heading "sustainability." That is, of course, also about this. Mrs. Beckerman asked about it. Mr Hammelburg and Mr Nijboer also asked about it. What can we do about the social housing that is poorly isolated, or the "dwellings" as Mrs Beckerman calls it? At least we can encourage the landlords to start isolating. You can do that on different routes. Some routes are already running. Other routes require further legislative and regulatory adjustments. We have the Scheme Reduction Rental Tax for residential insulation. A new sustainability and maintenance regime for small private landlords in particular will be launched in 2022. These are the landlords who own less than 50 properties. We have the 500 million which improves the investment space of the cooperatives. That's what I'm gonna make those appointments about that I was just talking to Mr. Aartsen about. That is what we can do now to ensure that the landlords are maximum stimulated to boost the energy labels. We are also looking at a number of other things, but they are for the slightly longer term, because they still need to be worked out. The first is the inclusion of the insulation standard in the housing valuation system, a point deduction for poor energy labels and the obligation of certain sustainability requirements, e.g. at the time a new tenant enters or at a certain date etc. We really need to work on this further, but I think it is necessary to lay it down in legislation. On the one hand you have the financial incentive, but on the other hand you have the rules you have to comply with. This will also encourage the landlords who might be a little less enthusiastic about improving energy labels to do so. Therefore, the tenants can appeal to and hold on to the landlord. Mr Hammelburg also asked for an overview of what measures are needed to make houses more sustainable and how much money is actually allocated to them. So that's a lot more than the 150 million he mentioned. In this budget we have also made more than 500 million available for the isolation programme, for the National Isolation Programme. That comes on top of the resources I mentioned. Maybe I can just refer Mr Hammelburg to the Climate Note. It was adopted on 28 October and has an annex 3, which gives an overview of the budgets and the arrangements by sector. If he doesn't think that's enough, he'll let me know. Mr Omtzigt made the link between the tax system and the housing market. Of course, he's right about that. There always is. This cabinet has, of course, already taken steps in the tax system. We've reduced the mortgage interest rate deduction. We now tax investors much more; they pay 8% transfer tax, while start-ups pay 0%. I have already mentioned the tax reduction in the landlord's tax. This has proved to be a very effective instrument in the past period. I refer again to the letter on declarations and means. So also on the fiscal side we have done a lot. If Mr Omtzigt says that we should do more with this, he has also mentioned a number of examples, I understand that very well, but I hope that Mr Omtzigt also understands that he is now talking to the outgoing Minister of Housing and that I can only bring to the attention of the next cabinet these far-reaching steps in taxation. It certainly belongs there; this cabinet also started with a number of steps in taxation around the housing market. Mr. Chairman. I actually want to conclude with the Housing Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u32	Just a moment, Mrs Maatoug, at this point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u33	In the row I did not hear the grant exemption, aka "the jubelton." Evaluations are important. This summer we enjoyed a very good evaluation of that scheme. Instead of achieving the goal, it increases power inequality. I don't have to tell you all that, because the Minister obviously knows all that. And what were we reading? That it would take quite a while to abolish it all. So I would like to ask the following question. There's an amendment. I think abolition is very sensible, but GroenLinks and those who co-signed it, including my colleague Nijboer from the PvdA, think we do not have that luxury. Because we're in the middle of a housing crisis, we don't have the luxury of waiting a few more years before we decide to abolish it. I would very much like to hear from the Minister, through your chairman, how that is seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u34	Let me put it this way. We know the facts by now. The tense situation on the housing market is also well known. I have often drawn attention to the fact that at the moment there is actually too big a gap between the haves and the port ots, the insiders and the outsiders. And this also plays a role. I think that in the past there were quite good reasons to introduce such a thing, but in the current housing market it just harms people who do not have this opportunity and benefits people who do. And that could just make a difference. Let me put it this way. I can very well imagine that there is a discussion about this. Hopefully, a new cabinet will soon be able to work with a government agreement on this matter. But I must also say that honesty requires that this cabinet no longer intends to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u35	That is a very clear answer; that is nice. I say this through you, Mr President, to the Minister, but also to my colleagues. You cannot abolish the regulation immediately, because it takes some time. My conclusion is that we don't have that time. We are seeing prices rise and the instrument is no longer doing what it was intended to do. My question then is: since we are now dealing with the Tax Plan, should you not be wise in this matter? Or someone should say: yes, but, Mrs Maatoug, that will be fine, because that will be decided soon and we will hear it in a week's time. But we haven't heard that yet. If we consider this to be so important and a majority in the Chamber is in favour of it, it seems to me that the only conclusion is that we do not have the luxury of waiting a few more years, also given that it takes longer to implement it, should the formation table decide to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'm actually listening to a call to the Chamber. I think it's in there now. The rope is as long as the Chamber makes it for the Cabinet. We're missionary. I want to do as much as possible for the housing market, because I find that incredibly important. I believe that we can also take substantial steps in this respect thanks to the Chamber. But, again, in this sort of thing, my hands are really tied by the fact that we're missionary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u37	Finally, Mr President. 'Cause I saw a Home Secretary yesterday who could make decisions. So my appeal is not only to the colleagues of the Chamber, but also to the Minister. You're still decommissioned now. When I hear you like that, we're actually making the same conclusion, so I'd like to give you a little nerve to make this choice and, for example, give our Amendment Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u38	I feel supported, that's nice. But unfortunately, I cannot go that far anyway, and for the reasons I have just explained. I wanted to say a few words about the Housing Fund, because that is a good fund. That's what came about a year ago. We have had extensive discussions, including with GroenLinks and the Labour Party. Other parties were also enthusiastic about this, then 50PLUS and others. So it's very good that that fund came. This really contributes to the quality of living in those areas in our municipalities that really need it. You can also see the enthusiasm from those congregations. The same 15 mayors who took the initiative at the time actually made that appeal again. Of course, it is about more municipalities than those fifteen in the Netherlands, but well, they have taken the lead in that. So I also understand very well that the PvdA and GroenLinks are coming up with an amendment to make sure that the Housing Fund is followed up. Because it's such a success that it's already run out; the 450 million was already overdrawn. Fortunately, therefore, we have been able to do a lot of awards, but some projects, which are also good and positive, have not either. So all this to underline how excited I am about the Housing Fund. But now for that amendment. I'm excited about that, too, but yes, it has two problems for me. Firstly, it is just about money on the expenditure side that is covered by money coming from the expense side. Well, I can only mark that here under the watchful eye of two finance colleagues. That's more of a financial-technical reason. It is also true that the coverage, the increase in the Vpb rate, is beautiful... I see Mr Nijboer: that business can suffer. Perhaps it is, but it also has a direct impact on housing corporations. So yes, with that the cat bites a little bit in its own tail. So I have a major problem with the coverage, not with the continuation of the Housing Fund. If that's possible at all, of course I'd be delighted to do so. But that, too, is what I think: formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u40	Yeah, look, we did that for a year because we thought there was a missionary cabinet. And that, of course, is my whole point. January 1st, there will be no money for it. We'll vote Thursday. Those are the cover options. And then there's no money to invest in the viability of municipalities, because there's such a mess made of that formation. I find that agitated, and in fact not what a outgoing cabinet should want. So I'm perfectly willing to find another cover. The jubelton is a great idea, but it can be done elsewhere. Last year we slept with the investors; that 8% was used for the Housing Fund. I'm fine too, but I'll take it to 10 or 12, all at your service. So that won't be the problem. If the Minister says "it's at the formation table and the viability in the Netherlands should only be locked for a year, and then we'll see again afterwards," I would find that very disappointing, but actually very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u41	I have tried in my response to advertise maximum for the Housing Fund. I'm a big fan of the fund. And so are the municipalities in the Netherlands. The mayors didn't let you know that for nothing, and I'm sure that didn't go unnoticed by the forming parties. I can't imagine they didn't see that. It's money on the expense side. I hear Mr Nijboer making alternative proposals for cover, but at least there is the same technical problem. If only I had some money left in my budget, I would be happy to make it available. That is not the case. But perhaps we should say, Mr Nijboer and I, that we will discuss this again in the legislative consultation on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u42	Minister Hoekstra has half no cover. We have had the Hermans motion here, with half of it uncovered. We just covered it for tax last year. The cabinet is a missionary. So if the Chamber decides that it can do so, then this is also the moment. You can spend money you collect. That's kind of the idea of taxing and doing good things with it. So I don't think that's such a convincing argument. Because the trouble is, of course, that we are going to vote tomorrow. And I'm not gonna cut back on education or what I don't know to fill the Housing Fund. That is the problem why I am putting it so clearly now and why the Minister is now part of this debate. So is the minister willing to look for that space? Or does she say: the municipalities are just unlucky and we are going to talk for the form on Monday? I do not think the VVD, for example, wants to cut back on defence or D66 on education to achieve this. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u43	I cannot say much more about coverage in this debate than I have already said. With regard to the continuation of the fund, we know that there are still applications on the table. There are municipalities that are likely to have even better proposals but could not participate in this round for other reasons. So it's all set up. I would also very much like to say to those municipalities that I can take a first step. But then I have to go back to the cabinet, because I don't have that money available. So I can't make it prettier than it is. I hope we can discuss it further on Monday...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yes, if you drop those long silences, they will be filled by the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u45	That was really a silence to make it clear that I am at the end of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u46	Okay, I didn't know that. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u47	I won't be here on Monday, but my colleague Bromet is doing an excellent job. I hope, in the meantime, that in order to avoid a repetition of the conversation, you will go to Mr Hoekstra and say: 'Hey, boy, I didn't pay attention to the Millions note in September, I do need some money.' I have every confidence that this minister can do that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u48	I do not want to think for Mr Hoekstra, but I have, of course, been very careful and that is why the ten times 100 million for housing has been included in the documents. Furthermore, I am of course very grateful to the Chamber for the extra 500 million through the landlord levy. So it's not like the outgoing cabinet doesn't do anything at this point, but the Housing Fund was with me in the category "formation." By the way, I have every confidence that it will be all right. But Mr Nijboer also has a point. The formation is still ongoing. I think we all expected that there would now be a new cabinet that was in full swing, including the urban restructuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u49	This is not an interruption, by the way, but since the Minister is at the end of her speech, I am doing so. I'd like my motion No. 130 (35925) put to the vote tomorrow. I filed that motion with the General Financial Reviews. This concerns the block living, more specifically the energy labels and the giving of rent discounts, which the cabinet does not want to carry out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u50	Fine. It'll be on the pile. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for her contribution today. We'll see her again tomorrow, and so will Monday. She's going her way now and we wish her every success for the rest of her day. Oh, Mr. Omtzigt still has a small afterburner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u51	I had asked a question about the lower ICI for sports associations and when the relevant implementing decision will be published. I do not know exactly whether this is with the Secretary of State for Finance or the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u52	Yeah, that was in a subtlety. I wasn't sure if I should qualify it as a question, but I understand now. I recognized the point, by the way, because I have discussed it with Mr Omtzigt before. It has been an amendment by Mr Omtzigt which amends the Municipal Law which allows the municipalities to charge sports accommodations that lower ozb rate. We said to each other at the time: it is possible and individual municipalities have to decide whether or not to use it, but in practice there have been all kinds of questions and doubts among the municipalities. In my view, I promised Mr Omtzigt that he would have the talk with the municipalities in order to see how this could be done best. When I heard Mr Omtzigt make that remark yesterday, of course, I immediately went to the officials who were rushing to ask what is going on. I can tell you that I will inform your Chamber soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u53	You have that commitment, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u54	Well, this amendment is 2.5 years old. I'd love it if next year it could be carried out by municipalities. Can I assume that this information also means that it is for municipalities if they choose it, eh, because they do not need it to be enforceable and that is clearly where the demarcation lies, or do we still need a legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u55	I don't think so. I am going to come back to this more precisely on Monday, but Mr Omtzigt and I do agree: the municipalities can choose. If they choose to do it, fine. Then Mr Omtzigt is satisfied. If they choose not to do it, they may, but then it shouldn't be because they don't understand how to apply it. Can I sum it up like that? The commitment I have just made means that I can explain it more precisely in the legislative consultation on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u56	A nice cliffhanger to end with. Thanks again to the Minister of the Interior. We'll talk on Monday. I'm gonna suspend for a few minutes for a little cleaning operation. The floor is for Secretary of State Van Huffelen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a small introduction and then answer all the questions that were asked yesterday in my area. The introduction is mainly about the fact that last week we discussed quite extensively the recovery operation for supplements in the legislative consultation. I indicated at that time that I consider it important, on the basis of what the Chamber and certainly the Council of State have indicated, to arrive at a single law for the recovery of surcharges, a law which includes all the arrangements that have already been made. It is therefore the policy rules that have already been adopted, together with any changes that we would like to make on the basis of the review operation, and certainly the additional arrangements that I informed the Chamber about two weeks ago. I indicated last week that, in anticipation of that law, it seems wise to make some sort of safety net. That safety net would be to have a law better said: at that time we were talking about a letter of amendment to the law of my colleague Mr Vijlbrief............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Following the debate and the discussion that we had last week and following a consultation on this matter with the Council of State, I decided not to do so in the form of a letter of amendment, but in the form of a separate law, and thus to submit a legislative proposal to you. We are not discussing that bill today, but I think it is important to say again what this bill is for. It serves as a safety net provision, as a safety net law, which we could use when it fails to deal with the total recovery bill for surcharges on time and yet we would like to proceed with the implementation of the supplementary schemes for children, ex-partners and possibly those who have suffered other surcharges. Given that, I'd like to continue with the questions you've asked. We are dealing with the law we were just talking about, so not today, but agreements have been made to do so in the coming weeks, at least before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u58	There is a question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yes, a brief question to the Secretary of State. Thank you. I think it's a wise decision. Could the Secretary of State promise that we'll get a note about when that's about to happen and what's about to happen? Maybe it's good to see what the parents think of it, that kind of process. Could the Secretary of State send a letter about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u60	I filed the law with you. The bill has been tabled and you yourself agreed at the procedural meeting to deal with that bill this year. Mr. Van Hammelburg is about to say something about that. And the entire bill can be made once we've also discussed the recalibrate. We are doing this at the beginning of December on the basis of the ninth progress report, in which we are talking about whether any changes in the current trajectory and process are needed to do so. In principle, we are going to deal with all of this before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u61	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Then there's no need for a letter like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u62	Perfect, thank you. Mr. Chairman. I shall then turn to the questions raised by the various Members of your Chamber. I shall begin with Mr Mulder's question on the steps taken to ensure that children who have been placed in their homes will soon be able to return home. My colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, has discussed this issue with the Chamber in detail in the legislative consultation. It is of course also a very important subject, because it is heartbreaking when children are placed out of the house due to the problems with the surcharges. The Minister has promised that he will work on this. He wants to take an approach to that, too. To this end, he collaborates with, among other things, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, representatives of the Council for the Protection of Children, youth protection and all kinds of aid workers in this field, and certainly with the case law. He will return to you as soon as possible. We agreed in the legislative consultation that we should do this separately in conjunction with the debate on this issue on youth and family life. But this subject has our full attention and the Minister for Legal Protection is working hard on it. Then there was Mr Aartsen's question about the exchange of data: whether it is true that the exchange of data between the tax authorities and municipalities is difficult and what is and cannot be done in this area. We have agreed with municipalities that they will help us with parents who are in trouble by supporting the benefits in a broader sense in different habitats. It was very clear very quickly that parents who had been injured were not only in financial difficulties but sometimes also in all kinds of other areas. Last March, I made agreements with the municipalities about this. In this context, municipalities have also promised to provide assistance. Of course, they need information for that. At first we agreed that we could pass on the data of the parents to the municipalities. Of course, we have also requested permission from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In doing so, we have always provided all the information we have at our disposal, such as telephone numbers and, of course, the bsn's of those parents, so that a municipality could also contact us. We have adapted this process somewhat since 1 September, also at the request of the municipalities. At the moment it is true that when people register with us and say that they are hurt and want to be judged by us, we ask the question whether there is a need for contact with the municipality and whether further help is needed. If that is the case and parents are allowed to do so, then we will ensure that this information from the parent concerned also reaches the municipality. In this way, we ensure that parents who want to get help from their municipality and that municipalities can contact them immediately. They do so in all kinds of different ways. But we also ensure that this complies with what the Dutch Data Protection Authority believes we are allowed to give information about the parents from the Tax Office to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u63	Excuse me, but I'm a little late. I was just thinking about the answer to my question. It is good to hear that the Minister for Legal Protection is in the process of finding a solution as soon as possible. The Secretary of State is right that this belongs to the Minister of Justice. But she could do something to prevent removals from taking place in the near future. For example, it could ensure that the list of 48 000 cannot in any case allow anyone else to be placed out of the house. That has to be settled by this Secretary of State. Will the Secretary of State do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u64	Of course I can't. Every effort is being made to ensure that people who report to us as duped are assessed as soon as possible. We'll see if anyone's hurt. If that's the case, that person gets $30,000. We're gonna pause the debt and settle it, and there's also additional help from the municipality. There can, of course, be a situation in a family that makes it necessary to have children removed from home. That is always terrible, that is always very profound, but I cannot, of course, promise that the children of the people who come to us can never be placed out of the house. Then you ask me something we really can't do. As we have already discussed with your Chamber, we can ensure that people who are in need and in which this financial problem plays a major role are treated with priority. I shall continue with Mr Aartsen's question on the exchange of information. We do not always have all the information from parents. I think it's good to report that. For example, we do not have a telephone number or a telephone number of all parents that is up-to-date. But when we get that, we'll give it to the city, too. If we don't have that, of course we can't give it to you. Then municipalities will have to find other methods. They have done so, ranging from sending a letter or a postcard to going on house visits, to see if they can get in touch with the parent and ask if additional help is necessary. It has also been asked whether a municipality may only contact a duped person once. That's not the point. If a municipality is in contact with a parent, the answer may be: there is nothing necessary as far as I am concerned. That is about two thirds of the situation. In about a third of the situations, there is also a question of additional aid, according to a survey carried out by the municipalities themselves. That may be a small question or more extensive help, but if a parent has said "I would like that help" then the contact details of that parent can also remain with the municipality and that parent can also remain on the list. Only when a parent says "I don't want to get in touch, I don't want to get in touch with you, I'm okay, I know where to find you if that's necessary and until then" will the municipalities also have to make sure that they get the parents out of the list. This is also explicitly the case on the basis of the agreements made with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. So only when the parent says "no, it's no longer necessary, there's no need" will the name be removed from the list as well. Perhaps it is also a good thing that there was another discussion about the exchange of information among municipalities. This is actually about whether municipalities can match the list they get from the Tax Administration with other files they have with parents, for example with debt issues or other help they provide. That is not allowed by the Dutch Data Protection Authority at the moment. There are municipalities that do that anyway. For example, the municipality of Rotterdam has sent a letter to the Dutch Data Protection Authority and said: we can help parents much better in Rotterdam, it's about 6,000 parents when we can see how we can make a match between the different systems and files we have. They have sent a letter to the Personal Data Authority on this matter. Then Mr Aartsen's question was about personnel changes at UHT. In principle, one case manager is working on one file, which supports and helps a parent. It may happen, but fortunately this does not happen so often, that a businessman leaves us during the treatment and that a parent gets another businessman. That's what we're trying to prevent as much as possible. When such a situation occurs, we ensure that there is as flexible a transfer as possible. Fortunately, that goes well in most cases. It also happens that parents themselves ask for another business manager, because they themselves do not like the person with whom they have to work very much or have some sort of click; that happens too. Then we'll make a change as soon as possible. Then there was Mr Aartsen's question as to whether it is true that there is little authority in the UHT organisation to make such a decision low in the organisation. He's talking about front and back office, and so on. Perhaps he means the role of the personal case-handler and what is the evaluator in our case. So a personal business manager goes to work, together with a parent, prepares the file and makes an assessment of whether a parent is eligible for, for example, more than the €30,000 already paid at that time, or whether a parent who did not initially appear to be entitled to compensation is entitled to compensation. The personal business manager makes the file, stands next to the parent, collects information and shares it with the parent, and also ensures that everything is discussed and recorded with the parent, but ultimately the assessment takes place by an assessor. That is also the separation between two roles which was very much desired by your Chamber at the time we passed the law on this matter. Because you have also always said that we should not let the one person who is working with the parent be the one who makes the decision. In the meantime, we have already talked further, including in the context of the review, or there could not be a bit more cooperation, not only by allowing the case-handler and the assessor to work more together in each other's team, what we are doing now, but also, for example, whether two case-handlers could look at a case together and also improve speed. In the context of the review, we are looking at it, but we ourselves attach it to................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then there was Mr Aartsen's question about the speed of compensation. How do we deal with new people joining us? What is the status of cooperation between different bodies? Short and good: we are of course very hard at work assessing the files of people who have come to us. As far as the first test is concerned, we have now tested more than 35,000 people. That's a large proportion of the approximately 48,000 who reported to us. Twenty-two thousand of them are eligible for compensation. Most of that group has already been paid out. In the progress report we gave your Chamber much more details. We shared that and exchanged it. We look at what we can do to improve and accelerate the process. That is what we do with all the parties involved, but certainly with a whole group of parents. In the context of this review, we will see what else we can do. You also asked about the Committee on Actual Damage. That is a committee that operates independently of us in the context of the recovery operation at the Tax Office and for parents is considering whether there is any reason to obtain additional compensation. In our full assessment is a compensation of 25%, and €500 for every six months that someone has been hurt. That committee is working hard. We have found that more people are reporting to them than they had initially thought. We are therefore expanding the committee to ensure that the lead times can be reduced as much as possible. In the context of the review, we are also looking together with the CWS for improvements in the process. Then I will continue with another question from Mr Aartsen, namely whether all those who have been identified as victims will receive a letter or just a telephone message. No, they all get a letter from us, initially after the first test we do. Someone who has been hurt will receive a letter from us containing the message: you will receive €30,000 from us. We'll call in advance, but then we'll send a letter. This will also be finalised in the context of the comprehensive assessment, with a decision. Of course, that's what we do on paper. Then about people who got $30,000, but used it to pay off their debts. This was also the subject of a question from Mr Aartsen. On 21 October we published a policy decision. We have recorded the following, something that we have already announced. If people have paid off part of their debts, the part of the debts that we would repay, we will ensure that it is repaid. So if someone has paid debts that we would repay from our private debt settlement, then an additional compensation will be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u65	Is the Secretary of State coming back to the Committee on Actual Damage, or was that part of it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u66	I wouldn't go back to that, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u67	Then I'd like to ask a question. It all sounds very reasonable, but I looked at it today: I think that only 56 files have been dealt with by that committee. 56, Chairman. Of all the organizations that the Secretary of State has rigged, this one is the slowest, I think. Even if you look at the reports we are getting from parents who have been judged there, you can see that a large part of the 56 is very dissatisfied. One of the things that comes back in all the reports, I say through you, President, to the Secretary of State, is that it has been assumed that the words of the Secretary of State could be believed that not everything would be checked to three decimal places and that it was about plausibility and the human dimension. What we see now is that only 56 files have been processed and there are a lot of complaints about this. One simple question: can you answer that and how do you judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u68	This committee has been set up, and incorporated into the laws we have on this matter, as a committee that is far from every parent. It is a committee where parents can say that they have suffered far more damage than we compensate with our so-called integrated assessment. I also said that the committee is much more busy at the moment than we thought. That means that the committee members have not yet been able to assess all the files from my mind, I say that there are over 200 files from people who have reported there. We also agreed on a number of other things around this committee. They work independently and work on the basis of the so-called Dutch compensation law. We therefore look from the perspective of Dutch law on compensation at the situation of a parent. A parent can indicate what kind of damage he thinks he has suffered or has suffered, and the committee then gives an opinion on it. We have therefore asked this committee to work from the framework of Dutch law on compensation. We also asked the committee not to ask for the last receipt when someone claims to have suffered damage. The committee itself states that it should not do so. That goes, for example, in terms of "my house has been sold under water" or "I have suffered certain intangible damage." The point is that the parent concerned can also make that plausible to the committee. Now, of course, it is very difficult to talk about individual cases, but I know that there are parents who are not satisfied with the treatment they have experienced at the committee. We have also discussed the committee before in this Chamber. We also thought it appropriate for the committee, anonymised, to show some of the cases they have dealt with. That's what the committee promised. They have indicated that if we have done 50 cases that are representative of the case, then that is about now, then we would also like to show a little bit more of how we look at the situations that are being presented to us. It seems to me very good to include this in the next progress report and then to look at how the Commission looks at the situations presented to them by parents, of course often together with their lawyer or supporter. In this way we can see better whether we agree with the way the committee looks at this problem. For the rest, I am also constantly talking to the committee, of course to talk about the scaling-up, but also to make it clear to them that some people are not yet entirely satisfied with the way they are approached by the committee. But I don't even have to do that myself, because that happens in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u69	These calculations or examples are thus presented in the next, ninth, progress report. So that's before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u71	Okay. Is it also possible to deal with what is coming and what is threatening, namely that there will be a difference between people who have already received the €30,000 and who have used it, on the advice of other people, to pay off debts, and those who later received the €30,000 and who, in addition to the €30,000, have also paid off debts? Is it possible that you will also take this into account and how it can be restored?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u72	Yeah, we'll just straighten that out. People were compensated in July last year. That was a first group. At that time there was no debt settlement at all, so those people have often used their compensation to pay off debts. We have indicated that we will repay that again if those are debts that we would otherwise, with other parents, also compensate. So we're just gonna reverse that completely. The policy decision we published on 21 October also states this literally. In it is the ground on which we can do this. Of course, it would be totally unfair if this were to happen for a number of parents and not for others. I know those people are there. Some people, for example, have also repaid or partially repaid their DUO debt with compensation. This would not be reasonable, of course, and we are going to correct this. There was also a question from Mr Omtzigt about the children who were placed out of the house. I just talked about that. I have said that we do not have any more information about the numbers, but that we are currently working hard by the Minister for Legal Protection to find a place where people can go and look again at these cases and the links with the fees. Then there was a question from Mr Omtzigt as to whether the rulings of tax courts could be made public. Actually, that's already happening. If a citizen appeals against an order of fees, that is at first instance before the court. In addition, an appeal to the Council of State is possible. Those statements shall be made in public. The hearings shall be open to the public, as shall the judgments of the Court of Justice or the Supreme Court, in the event of a parent still arriving there. I know this has happened in the past. The judgments are also published anonymously on www.rechtsrecht.nl and the website of the Council of State. These statements are therefore also accessible in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u73	In principle, it is indeed accessible and a court ruling is always public. However, about 5% is only published on www.rechtschoop.nl. So there weren't thousands of cases of surcharges. So the Venice Commission has said: we would recommend that as many cases as possible should be published anonymously, at least from the Supreme Court but also from the others, so that you get some kind of equality before the courts. After all, the Tax Administration has all the case law in its head and the trial party does not. But you can also say much earlier that thousands of parents have a problem; would there be something worse going on in this file? My question was therefore: does the Tax Administration want to come up with a plan together with the justice system to ensure that we publish at least half of the statements and preferably all the statements? I would also have liked to have heard from the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u74	I can see what your question is now, because that is something else than I initially understood. Your question is clear, but I cannot just answer it. I can take him with me and discuss with my colleague in the Legal Affairs Committee whether that would be an option. Of course, we're not dealing with it from the Tax Department. We have to talk about this with the justice system itself. I can certainly take it with me and discuss it with my colleague from Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u75	I think I'll put a motion to that effect. Then let's see how that question can best be answered. Indeed, I understand that this is not in the power of the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yeah, exactly. Then it's about the data supply. Mrs Van Dijk asked which suggestions of the Chamber we accept in the monthly data supply. I'm gonna take on four suggestions. One is about the active call about the results of the pilots. We're gonna call parents when we see that there's a difference between the data that the childcare organisation has passed on to us, what we see in our files and what the parents have indicated. The second suggestion I would like to take on board is to work with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs to ensure that, in the improvement process for the childcare allowance, the possibility of providing parents with standard insight into the data that we have from them and which we receive from the childcare organisations. The third suggestion I have also promised to Mr Idsinga is that I am going to investigate whether we can give a signal to parents if the data of childcare organisations and of supplements are in line and, as far as we are concerned, we are right. So those are the data that are correct. The fourth is that, together with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, I will inform the Chamber of progress in the connection of childcare organisations with this data supply. These are the four points we would like to take on board. I shall end with a question from Mr Hammelburg. He asked: is it possible to modify the website, so that people who seek help in applying for their fees can find out where they can go and whether they can go to their own neighborhood? In the context of improving our services, I would very much like to take this with me. We have also announced before that, when it comes to helping people in the area of surcharges, it is really complicated for some people, especially if you have multiple supplements, not only want to provide support in the form of people who can help them, but want to do so physically in a place nearby. So not only the possibility to call us, but also the possibility to visit a window. I would be happy to take over your question to make that possible on our website, because that is important. People can always call, but we also provide a physical place, so a window where you can go. We prefer to do this at a town hall, a recognizable and pleasant place for people. We will also ensure that our website is as friendly as possible. You were talking about a country card or the possibility of filling in your zip code, I understood, so you know where you can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u77	Nowadays, every website, every company, every delivery service that is about at the top of the website, has such a box where you can just fill it out. I am very pleased with this commitment, so thank the Secretary of State for that. This question was addressed to this State Secretary and to the State Secretary for Taxation. Because the tax return is, of course, also a thing. I actually asked that I should have said that more clearly to two State Secretarys a commitment on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u78	That leads to chaos, we can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u79	That's right. I see a benevolent attitude, also on my left. So we're gonna take that together. Thank you. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you for your contributions. We are now going to listen to Secretary of State File Letter, who is going to do his answer sitting down. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I forgot it was last year in the night. I think it will be shorter this year, because the Tax Plan is a lot thinner. I would like to begin by thanking Members for the pleasant debate yesterday and for all the questions and views I received from Members. It's a thinner and much less policy package than we had last year. I'm going through the eight legislative proposals presented to the Chamber today. You have noticed that a lot of legislative proposals have also been put forward separately. That's consistent with the Hoekstra motion from the First Chamber. For example, we have made a number of improvements in the process. I will say something about further improvements later. We have on the agenda: the Tax Plan 2022, the Other Tax Measures 2022, the implementation of tax-duty measure under the Second EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, the reduction in the rate of landlord's tax and the monthly change in the amounts that we have just had. That's six of them already. Your Chamber has decided to add two more legislative proposals that are the Anti-Challenge Act mismatches in application of business principle and the Job-related Investment Discount Act to deal with them jointly. Mr. Chairman. I really think we're gonna be able to do better, but things aren't going well yet. I think I agree with Mrs Van Dijk. The Minister mentioned this earlier, during the General Financial Reviews, and I myself said so in a letter at the beginning of the year. It is worth trying to report back to the Chamber as early as spring on the burden side of the budget and thus allow a debate on those things that are not necessarily related to the August decision-making process. It has to be possible, and that is really going to be better because of it. A second change, which we discussed earlier, is that I have said that it would be wise to say that the forming parties might be attracted if a fiscal calendar follows from a government agreement, so that everyone can see when something happens. That is such a small, yet important mutation to make it easier. I therefore very much agree with Mr Omtzigt and others who said: we must treat it as carefully as possible. I support the call, although it is not addressed to me, and the idea of the rapporteurs. It is a proven method to focus more on legislative proposals. You should also have noticed that I myself tried to give you a little more time by allowing embargo regulations to apply to the Tax Plan. I think that's the very first time. So gradually we are working on a better process. In addition, we have naturally decided, partly on the basis of the POK, that we are going to make all the underlying notes public. That is what happened with this Tax Plan. That had happened last year with the BIK as well. I actually liked it there, because that makes the debate more transparent. That is also the case now. So I think that things are getting better overall, but I agree that this could be an even better process and that this could be even more careful. It would be a good lesson for my successor to pursue that. Which brings me to the content. That was a lot to discuss yesterday. That's the fun part of this debate. No, this is not really such a technical debate at all. Taxes have the strange feature of being very technical and superpolitic at the same time. That's exactly what you see here all the time. It seems like you're having a very technical debate, but you're actually having a rather political debate. Mr Nijboer addressed the Pen parade to my great pleasure. He did that in the General Financial Reviews. Jan Pen, the famous Dutch economist, once set the income distribution as a parade. It might be nice to try to do the Pen parade for the power distribution in the Netherlands. It's a lot more uneven, as we all know, but we don't really know enough about that power distribution. Finally, before I go into the substantive answers to the plans, I would like to say something about Mr Idsinga, who I am sad to say cannot be present. Not that Mr Aartsen would not replace him very well, as I expected, but Mr Idsinga is a fiscalist, and also a cheerful fiscalist. That combination is pleasant. I do not say anything about the many appearances of that, that is not up to me. I wish him all the best and I hope he will be back in the Chamber soon. I will also say a great deal about compensation in response to Mr Van Raan's questions. Then the blocks. I'm going to say something about tax avoidance and global cooperation. I'm going to say something about greening, about wealth and box 3, about the share option rights bill and about the delegation provisions. At the end I have a small cup left. But before I do that, I would like to say something about feasibility. Many Members of your Chamber have said something about the execution. I like that very much. This means that a great deal of attention is now being paid to the feasibility of laws, including a great deal of attention to the ICT of the Tax Administration. I refer to two images: a rusty car and wet spaghetti. One can lead to another, I thought. Let me be more serious: it is indeed sensible, as I said to Mrs Van Dijk earlier, if I were to send a letter in my term of office, in the coming weeks, in which, if I can, I would indicate what the potential for ICT is. What can the Tax Administration actually handle and how can you see it in relation to what is being asked of the Tax Administration? Mr Hammelburg also made a comment on this. In this context, he mentioned the changes in the VPB system, the corporate tax system, but I would also point out that, for example, there would be greater recourse to the Tax Administration if the OECD proposals on minimum taxation and digitals, Pillars 1 and 2, were introduced. We're gonna talk about that later. This also means a major appeal to the Tax Administration and to the ICT systems. So it is right that that question should come. I'll be happy to send you another letter on that. I hope I can do that in my term of office, as I said. That brings me to the first part I would like to deal with, Mr President. That's the tax avoidance component. I have talked a lot about this in the WHO, because it concerns me very much. I am also going to repeat here in plenary that I am concerned about this, because there is a relationship between tax morality and tax avoidance. I thought it was Mrs Van Dijk who said the same thing, but I think it is being shared more widely. It is also on other dossiers, but I am particularly pleased that we are finally experiencing breakthroughs internationally on this issue. Big words have been used for the OECD agreement and the subsequent agreement, which has been confirmed by the G20. That is right, because it puts a minimum rate on corporation tax. That's just the best solution. The best solution to all these problems is to make international agreements with each other. This way you can stop each other from stopping because you're worried about your own locational climate. Of course, this has been the case in the Netherlands for years. I have said much more about this in the WHO, but I wanted to say this now. I would like to add that the Netherlands has unilaterally done a great deal about this in the past cabinet period. This varies from the withholding tax on interest and royalties, the withholding tax on dividends, which I submitted to your Chamber on 25 March last and which has now been hammered off by the First Chamber, to ATAD 1 and ATAD 2, which have been strictly implemented. We saw that at the earnings stripping. It's been implemented very sharply. In the Netherlands we have put a little bit more on top of that. In short, these are all unilateral, national measures, whereas I am actually in favour of doing things as much internationally as possible, but you cannot always wait. I'll say something about that later. That doesn't really have anything to do with taxation, but I'm here now. It does have something to do with greenery and export credit insurance. I am also pleased to see you, in particular Mr Omtzigt, saying that the committee's report is about to be completed and will shortly be sent to the Chamber. That was a request from Mr Omtzigt, I believe, from last year during the examination of the Tax Plan or the Financial Reviews. That's another part of the whole thing. The last thing I wanted to say is that I very much agree with Mrs Van Dijk that you can try to regulate everything in laws, but that the essence of tax avoidance is that people have to want to comply with laws inherently. That is why the tax governance code, which Mrs Van Dijk referred to, is so important. Then I would like to pass on the proposals and the questions that have been asked about them. Mrs Maatoug, Mr Nijboer, Mr Grinwis, who has not been present so far, and Mr Hammelburg have asked questions about arbitration possibilities due to differences in rates. It seems to me to be a truth as a cow that, if you increase the price differences, you also increase the incentive to arbitration. That does not mean that all forms of cutting up etc. arise from the wish for arbitration. For other reasons, a lot of companies split up into multiple e.g. companies, but it is true that the incentive is increasing. I thought it was Mr Hammelburg who had already drawn attention to this in the General Financial Reviews on the Earnings Stripping measure. There was actually the same point because there is a limit of 1 million above which it is only going to work, so to speak. I think that Mrs Maatoug's amendment goes too far. In this connection, Mrs Maatoug says: take that seriously. You could call it some kind of anti-fragmentation amendment. I had actually said it to Mr Hammelburg in connection with this Earnings Stripping measure, but I can draw it more broadly. I am prepared to look more strongly and to investigate whether this really is a problem and then look for a solution, which may lead to Mrs Maatoug's, but which is less significant for both the companies in question and the Tax Administration. If we were to do what Mrs Maatoug is proposing, SMEs would be paying a huge blow of extra tax. Then you could say, "That's nice." But it may also be that they will pay extra tax for the wrong reason, namely because they had not cut themselves up at all for a tax reason but for another reason. That is why I would prefer to have a more precise examination here and then see if we can do something about it. I would add that Mrs Maatoug and others who have mentioned this are quite right in saying that the incentive of the tariff difference, the tariff step in the Vpb et cetera plays an important role here. This is what I would like to say to Mrs Maatoug in response to her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you for this commitment from the Secretary of State. Let's talk about the rates. We're dealing with the tax plan right now. From 1 January 2022 we have a tariff increase. The Secretary of State quite rightly says: a truth like a cow, it goes that way. My question to the Secretary of State: do you not share with GroenLinks and other parties in this Chamber that it is very wise to freeze them, given the missionary state of the cabinet, so that we can look at that quietly and not let that hole get bigger from 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u83	This, I think, is going to play a role in this debate a number of times. I am just going to say straight away: this is a decision that was taken last year by this cabinet in the then Tax Plan and is coming back here now. The expansion of the step was also done last year. This was deliberately intended to give a larger number of companies a lower rate. Mrs Maatoug is right, and we agree that this is another incentive, albeit in the wrong direction. I am going to say a number of times today, and it is likely to annoy you very much, that as a Demissionary Secretary of State and as a member of a very outgoing cabinet, I am not going to be able to make any changes to that. If you're asking me if it's true that this is the effect, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you. I'm also happy for this truth as a cow. That simply makes the debate very clear. But we do have a choice to make. I read in the answer of the Secretary of State a reference to a beautiful ESB article this summer by Finance officials about that risk. That's right. We make decisions in this house. But sometimes you start to think and you think: maybe that's not wise, so we make a pass on the spot, even though we decided otherwise earlier. The Secretary of State doesn't feel that space. But would he like to say to the Chamber that it would be wise to put it in place and leave the situation as it is this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u85	This variant of amendments does not exist. There is something like Court of Justice judgment, which means that the cabinet is fine with it. There is something like discouragement, and Mrs Maatoug is now going to introduce a third category: this might be sensible, but I can't say anything about it now. It doesn't exist, so I'm just going to dissuade the amendment. But if you ask me whether it is true that these effects are there... If you want to put the amendment to the vote, that is your full right, but I'm just saying what it is like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u86	Then I'm wasting an interruption on it, Mr. President. I hope that colleagues are listening carefully, because I have just come up with a third category of amendment. But I mean it sincerely, and that is what we started: these debates matter, because we make decisions. If we all say that this is important and that we see the risk, please don't rush it here. We don't do that on other files. Let's take a look at the place. We can do it next year. You're going for more and you're going to make decisions, so let's be sensible with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr Hammelburg is going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u88	I wouldn't dare. I just wanted to get back to the Secretary of State's commitment: if we're going to monitor, how exactly does that cut up? At what time can we understand that? Mrs Maatoug always makes a big difference between a few weeks and a few years, something I've noticed all day. I have to say that there is also something like a few months. That might be good news. How long can we expect such a thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u89	I think a few weeks is unrealistic, but I think a few months is realistic. So that could just be there in a few months, with some thoughts on what you could do about it. Mr President, I would like to move on. Mrs Maatoug, Mr Nijboer and Mr Hammelburg have drawn attention to a certain form of double non-taxation, particularly in countries with a zero rate. I agree with them that you want to do something about this point, one-sided mismatches. Moreover, I am not in favour of national action now and I will explain why. In principle, if it is right, the minimum profit measure will work in such a way that this can no longer be done. I cannot predict its implementation, but it seems to me, in the context of the long speeches that you and I have made, that we should not do all kinds of things that are going on in the tax administration and which actually apply very briefly, that are not wise to put national legislation back in place until international law comes into force. Then, of course, you will ask me: when do you, Secretary of State, think that this OECD directive could have been implemented? The date that you sometimes hear is January 1, 2023. That's very fast for the IRS, I think. We need to look at that. But we are talking about the second OECD pillar, so as to remain technical. Minimum profit tax should in principle solve this problem. I would therefore advise the Chamber not to do anything national in between, although I fully recognise the problem. I believe that Mr Alkaya raised a question in the WHO on the date of 1 July 2019 with regard to the legislative proposal on combating mismatches. I had to think about which bill it was again. Mr Alkaya and Mrs Maatoug have also asked questions about this in this debate, and Mrs Maatoug has also tabled an amendment on it. Mrs Maatoug and Mr Alkaya are quite right to ask: why don't you do that from 2017? There was originally "2017." There are two reasons for this. The first is a formal reason. I'll call that one first. The Council of State has rather capitulated us on the retroactive effect in general, so not only on this point. They were actually just against it. They didn't want retroactive force. In the end, we opted for July 1, 2019 because the new ruling practice has been in place since then. The reasoning is that companies or companies could have known and should have known from that date that this was the intention. That is why it became 1 July 2019. Mr Alkaya asked what the logic was. Well, this is where logic comes from. It's a combination of the Council of State saying "you shouldn't have any retroactive power at all" and we started it with 2017. That combination led to this balance. That is not entirely arbitrary, because it is linked to when companies could have known they were in the picture. That's where the date of 1 July 2019 comes from. I already said something about the tax governance code. Then Mr Mulder asked me: could the Secretary of State say something about the money that was lost in flow companies? The good news is that the report from the Ter Haar II Committee is coming. That's what I just said. That report is about flow companies and this comes back to it. Let me say nothing about this now, because the report has not yet been formally presented to the Chamber. But the report's coming up. I haven't read it myself, but the report is coming very soon. That's what these numbers will come back to if it's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u90	I understand the Secretary of State's arguments somewhat. You can't expect companies to adapt their behavior to things they don't know are coming. So as a government, you have to radiate some confidence, including towards companies, citizens and people, that there is some predictability. But in this case we are dealing with a very specific problem: tax avoidance. The companies that are going to suffer from it are companies that avoid tax. Those aren't the companies we want to be supportive of, are they? These are not the companies that we want to represent here as a parliament and as a government: should you also be able to assume that we as a government act in your interest? Don't you always have to be able to deal with tax avoidance? Can the Secretary of State go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u91	I understand. I also agree with Mr Alkaya, except that there must be some form of legal certainty. You can't do random things. This is, of course, about the thin border between what is allowed and what is desired. The reasoning why we started it retroactively from 1 July 2019 is that companies could have known that we didn't think this was desirable and would therefore send the Tax Administration after it. That is where the reasoning comes from. It has nothing to do with how you appreciate the form of tax avoidance, because Mr Alkaya and I agree on that. But this is about the date of entry into force. That is exactly why the Council of State keeps saying to us: yes, you can find this and it can be morally the right judgment, but there must be something that keeps businesses feeling that they are not operating in a banana republic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u92	I agree with that point. I don't want to live in a banana republic either, and I understand that companies don't want that either. I also understand that you shouldn't want to do this in a general sense. As a socialist, I want to increase the tax on profits, the Vpb, but I would also find it unreasonable to do so from 2010, because then you will also take companies that have just made legitimate profits and should be able to rely on them. But the proposal now before us is about tackling illegal activities. At least it's about activities that the whole Chamber and the government say you shouldn't want companies to avoid tax at all. Has the Council of State generally said that we should be cautious with retroactive effect? Or did the Council of State specifically say about this bill that you should be reluctant to do so? I would find the latter very strange, because this is specifically about dealing with abuses. You always want to discourage them, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u93	The answer to Mr Alkaya's question is whether the Council of State has said so in general or whether it has said so in relation to this bill. The Council of State regularly says this to me when we want to do something with retroactive effect and in this particular case the Council of State did not really want retroactive effect according to this reasoning. That has to do with exactly what Mr Alkaya says: you should not want this. It is true that you should not want this, but it also has something to do with the law and whether companies can know where they are or not. They could have known that from July 1, 2019. That is the reasoning here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u94	This is not an interruption but a question to you, because I had given some arguments yesterday why companies should have known this. I have not yet received an answer to the question as to why that is so weighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u95	The Minister will tell you now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u96	I shall come back to that in the second term. I don't have those arguments at hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u97	Sorry, I meant the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr Omtzigt, and I think someone else too, but then I forgot to bring it into the answer.............................................................................................................................................................................................. The answer is: yes, we are firm against that. But the answer is also that we still lack some information here and there. That makes it complex and time-consuming. However, we will start an internet consultation before the end of this year. Then we will consult, investigate and ask whether there is any possibility that settlement, exemption or refund of dividend tax is possible only if, at the time of the dividend payment, both legal and economic property is held by a taxable person. That's one way to see if you could go against this. Another possibility we are going to explore in the internet consultation is whether we can introduce a holding period. This could also be an opportunity to combat this phenomenon. The answer to Mr Omtzigt's question is: yes, we are trying to tackle that fervently. There are problems with gathering information, but we are going to consult again if we can do something about it, because it is large sums. These are very large amounts of money. Mr Omtzig knows that as well as I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u99	How much money has gone through avoidance through these joint cases of dividends and how much money through fraud or evasion? Has there been any research on that so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u100	There's been some research on it, but then I'm gonna guess. I'm not gonna say that out of my head. Well, there's been some research on it. That was an investigation from the University of Mannheim, I say memorized. There's also $27 billion in my head. I see Mr Mulder nodding, for which I am grateful. But we had some reservations about the way this investigation was carried out. That's exactly my point. It would then require further investigation to do so more precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u101	There have been investigations here for less than 27 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u102	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u103	During the legislative consultation, the Secretary of State indeed expressed some reservations about Mannheim's investigation. I understand that, but if there's 27 billion coming out of the state treasury, I'd really like to have a letter in the short term that says exactly how much it's worth. There are really people who have made a billion dollars per person on this. We are really talking about a mega-size leak, partly due to fraud, partly through avoidance. The latter is then legal. We have sometimes made less urgent legislation, ugly emergency legislation, to at least close a gap and then perhaps fix it later. Why hasn't that been considered here? So can we receive a letter in the short term on the scale, how we are going to investigate how much has been evaded and evaded, and why we have not looked at emergency legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u104	I'm just gonna say it again. We are going to do what Mr Omtzigt asks, at least the first part. In fact, I agree with that. I think it would be wise for me to make a promise that we will try to investigate it again in the short term. I would add that it is complex, because it goes beyond borders. You understand that, too. It is not a matter of tomorrow when we are going to do an investigation in order to get a more precise picture of that. I'm gonna take a look at the official support. That Internet consultation starts at the end of the year. For the second time, let me give you an idea of what that means for when we can do something about it. That is what Mr Omtzigt is asking: when can you possibly prepare legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u105	In fact, I am asking: why is there not a hook in the current Tax Plan that allows you to introduce these matters immediately into ministerial arrangements? The Secretary of State says here that if we ensure that at the time of dividend distribution you have to have the shares in your possession for at least a week for that exemption, that the markets do not have to be deeply disturbed in a normal situation, but may make it a lot more difficult. Why don't you put a hook in it, for all I care, that happens tonight with a letter of amendment that allows you to take swift measures and not come up with legislation until the end of next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u106	I didn't say end of next year. I'm good for speed, but this pace seems too high. We're doing the Internet consultation. We don't do that for nothing. After all, of the measures I mentioned, Mr Omtzigt recognized them too; I heard him quite precisely: do these measures do exactly what is needed? We don't have a lot of examples either, so let's do it in the right order. I, or my successor, will do an investigation in the near future. We will do this internet consultation at a rapid rate. I'm just looking at official support. Then it doesn't have to be a year before there's legislation for this. But now putting a hook in the Tax Plan, I think it's going a little fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u107	Okay. Can we at least expect the start of the investigation in the coming weeks, so that we know how and what will be investigated? Then we can pick it up in two months with MP File Letter here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u108	I'd be happy to tell you. I will be happy to do so with Mr Omtzigt. The financial investment funds. I do not know whether Mrs Maatoug and I are going to agree on this. For the real nerds watching on television, we're going to have a conversation here about fiscal neutrality. The Dutch legislator has tried to shape this in such a way that it was not me; it has happened before that in principle it does not matter whether you invest directly or whether you do so through a financial investment institution. That's financial neutrality. So far, Mrs Maatoug and I agree. We think that's desirable, or at least I hope so. The next question is: is that really happening? For the gourmets: that has something to do with whether or not to get a benefit from the reinvestment reserve. Mrs Maatoug's amendment seems to suggest that you promote fiscal neutrality if you forbid it. My argument would be that you would break fiscal neutrality with that. So we're not getting out of there right now, if I understand her correctly. It is now unfortunate that the financial investment institution regime is an old regime. That comes from 50 years ago. At that time it was mainly about domestic investors and not about foreign investors. We once discussed such a FBI during oral Question Time. One of these financial investment institutions was then investing in houses in the Netherlands and, according to a newspaper, evaded tax. So I understand the question. We're gonna see if that regime still does what it has to do. I'm just gonna say it the way it is. But I am not in favour of the amendment in this form, because in my opinion it breaks fiscal neutrality. I thought Mrs Maatoug would disagree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u109	That is why the amendment has been dissuaded, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u110	That's how it's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u111	Mrs Maatoug. Twelve interruptions. No, you have six more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u112	Thank you, Mr President, for keeping up. My question is as follows. I liked that the Secretary of State started by saying: there is a lot of politics in technology. In that reinvestment reserve, we do say that you do not pay a dividend on the distribution via that pot. That is really different from all other forms of benefits. I would also like to hear the political weighting of this Secretary of State. Why do you think that's a good exception? Why do we reward it that this was lobbied in it once, very long ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u113	I'll leave the qualifications to Mrs Maatoug. I don't know if it was lobbied in there, but it came in. Our argument is that you do not want to have double taxation, precisely because you want to pursue fiscal neutrality. If you take it out of that reinvestment reserve, you shouldn't charge it with dividend tax. If Mrs Maatoug would like to do so, I would like to send a letter on this subject to explain and explain it further. I would also like to mention what we are going to do in the evaluation of financial investment funds. Maybe that's the best idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u114	I was just distracted by my phone. I hear there's an investigation. My question is: I feel that Mrs Maatoug's sentences should always be deleted at what time that inquiry will come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u115	I'm gonna send that letter to the Chamber soon. That's where I announce the investigation. I don't know. I need to take a look at that. I shall announce that investigation in that regard. That letter's coming soon. I'll try to send it in my term of office. Then I have an amendment from Mr Idsinga. This clarifies a number of things in the application of ATAD 2 and further counteracts possible tax avoidance. In view of the objective, I wanted that amendment in part No. 9 the Court of Justice, despite the fact that Mr Idsinga is not present. That's how I handled the block of avoidance. Which brings me to the block of greening. I was disappointed, however, that I am hardly ever really concerned about Mr Van Raan's contribution. I'm serious. We may differ on the measure, but I really think that this cabinet has done a number of things in the field of greening. Let me take it from the top: last week we did something that is not very common. The Netherlands has taken the lead in phasing out fossil in export credit insurance. We can say that the Chamber forced it to do so. All at your service, but we have, and we hardly ever do that. I think that is a sign that we have really started to look at these things differently. So I would say: look at how the glass is getting more and more full. I agree politically with Mr Van Raan that this should be speeded up. Everyone knows my party feels the same way. I very much agree with the direction he's pointing. But I cannot go along with all the amendments. He has submitted a lot of them in accordance with tradition. I agree with the direction that you will have to go more and more from taxing labour to taxing pollution. That is almost such an open door that I hardly dare to say, but it is important. As I said, this cabinet has really done a lot and has also done a lot unilaterally. For example, we have introduced a flight tax. I was just telling you about the Ekv. So that's what we're working on. This brings me to a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u116	A disappointed Secretary of State, what are we supposed to do with that? I assume that this is the answer to the dilemma I outlined at the beginning of my contribution. Do we really have to cheer now because the cabinet is taking steps? These steps should have been taken a long time ago, not because the Party for Animals wants to, but because science tells us that. Science has been telling us that for 20 years. Shouldn't we be happy about those steps? Do we have to reward that? I made the analogy with the partner who stopped hitting the other partner, and then you should be glad he left that behind. Now the Secretary of State says he's disappointed. I'd like to take the Secretary of State into the first story. That story is: we already know that we have much more to do. The government has failed to take the steps it has taken so far. There should be an insight into that. Then I say, we're back on the same path. But pretending you're disappointed because we're not cheering at something that should've happened a long time ago, I think it's a little unworthy of this Secretary of State and the party he stands for. We're not talking about the parties, but he brought it in himself; that's why I call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr President, may I answer this question? My disappointment is that I am inclined to think: every step we take here has been taken, and the sooner we make it, the better it is. But this is perhaps exactly the political difference between Mr Van Raan and myself. I will take the example of export credit insurance again, because that is the most in front of me now. The Netherlands is quite a step in this direction. You can ask yourself all kinds of questions about the competitiveness of offshore companies. We took quite a bold step, partly under the influence of, frankly, the input of the Chamber last week during a debate with Mrs Yeşilgöz. I think: it's such a shame that it's still stuck that it's never enough. I understand that the problem is very big. It's never enough, actually. But that doesn't help much. That was my point. But otherwise we will stop talking about my feelings, because that is not what this debate is about at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u118	I understand the Secretary of State on the one hand. But again, suppose he says himself, not because he is Secretary of State or because the Party for the Animals says so, that more should have happened... There is also much more to be done. In his role as Secretary of State, the Secretary of State can at least acknowledge that all the proposals made by various parties in this Chamber during the previous period, and also during this period, are systematically voted off. If that realization doesn't penetrate, you forget to report a piece of dynamics. Then you also draw a very negative narrative, as if we would never be satisfied and we should be happy with those steps. That really is a fundamentally wrong narrative. If the Secretary of State were to understand and be able to express that, then that disappointment would not occur either. Maybe we've said enough about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u119	I accept Mr Van Raan's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u120	Sometimes it's like you ended up in a really bad movie, a really bad movie. I mean, left here is arguing with extreme left. It's getting worse. There's nothing wrong with gas and oil. I think that the Communist Party of China is very grateful to you all for the decisions that have been taken. Think about it. But in general, I say to the Secretary of State: I simply cannot take an approach seriously if it is based on biomass and not on nuclear energy. If it is really about CO and that is really why the policy is being made, then it is more than incomprehensible that you are using biomass and not nuclear energy. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u121	I think I did it myself, but I shouldn't have started this. We're going to have an energy debate right now. That's fine as well; I've done something with that. But I do not understand why Mr Mulder is now saying 'if it were really about CO'. Is Mr Mulder questioning the government's intentions? Does he think that, for example, a measure such as export credit insurance would not be about the climate, but that we would pursue other objectives? I can't wait to see which ones they are. Is the aim then to support the Communist Party of China? I simply do not understand what Mr Mulder is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u122	Many men your age have at least supported all those communists in their early years. So maybe that's the case, but I don't know about this Secretary of State. I am saying that I wonder what the targets are, because biomass is being used, with three times as much CO emissions as gas and one and a half times as much as coal. You're gonna bet on that, just because some idiot has ever written the phrase somewhere that biomass does cause CO emissions, but that we don't count that, because we've agreed that you're gonna focus on biomass and not on nuclear energy. Then I ask you: explain that. Then you shouldn't ask the question again why I don't believe that. Answer the question why, if you want to save CO, you do put billions in biomass and not in nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u123	I really think it is wise that we should not have this debate now. Maybe I can finish it. This cabinet aims to counter climate warming. It wants to make its own contribution to this, and it does so through a lot of instruments. Parties differ in their opinion on the rate of change. Some people, like Mr Mulder's party, even say that we do not want it and do not think it is a good idea. I'm fine with that. But let's not question each other's intentions all the time. That's what my answers were about. You can talk about the form of energy for a long time. The example I gave of what this was all about was the ekv, the export credit insurance. Of this I said: I think that is a brave move that the Netherlands is making, in view of the fact that we can also get other countries to join us. That's what happened this week. Our biggest trading partner, Germany, went along with that this week. That is not because we moved, but it may have contributed a little. That is what I think is the right way to deal with the CO2 problem. That's all I said. In order now to answer the question 'why do biomass and not nuclear energy'... you really need to have that debate with another ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u124	For the umpteenth time, it is clear that there is no reason why you should opt for biomass and not nuclear energy. That's what this Secretary of State is proving again. It indicates that the whole policy is based on a paper reality. If it's really about saving the planet, then you're not going to base yourself on a paper reality, but then you're going to make policy based on "How is it always said, Mr. Van Raan?" Science. And if science says that biomass produces much more CO emissions, I don't give a damn about it, so you choose an energy source that doesn't emit CO and that's nuclear energy. You should be able to defend that after so many years in the cabinet, even if you are making up an excuse. But at least try. Just say "I can't, because it's just like that" is a little weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. I will proceed with your permission to the subject of energy prices. I had some doubts as to whether I had to go into this subject very extensively, but there were a number of questions. We have had a third term of the General Financial Reviews...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u126	We had moved on to another topic, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u127	Yes, that was clear to me. Do I understand correctly that all the amendments by the Party for Animals in the greening block have been dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u128	I should check whether all the amendments are concerned, but there are many. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u129	It also saves time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u130	If the Secretary of State says that he is disappointed and that we see the glass half full, then this is the perfect opportunity for the Secretary of State to donate the glass. And he's missing it a little bit now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u131	(NL) Mr President, I have often missed opportunities. It was about the letter of amendment of 3.2 billion, which we submitted to support households in the massive increase in gas prices. There's still a small amount waiting... No, it is not a small amount, but there is still 200 million to be done through Mr Hammelburg's and Mrs Van Dijk's motion at the bottom of the energy market. We had an extensive debate about it, and I got confused about cannons, mosquitoes and elephants, but it was about shooting a cannon on a mosquito. I have already indicated, and I repeat this here once again, why the cabinet has chosen the rough road, the non-fine-meshy road, the cannon. The Chamber wanted this very quickly. The cabinet agreed. That is why we have done so. We have chosen the electricity price and not the gas price. Mr Omtzigt said in his contribution that he would come back to it again: would it not have been logical to take the gas price, because that is where the problem lies? In a sense, he said right after it: I know that this was not done because it would interfere with the sustainability objectives. It is true that this is why electricity prices were chosen. We have also made a motion by Mr Grinwis and Mr Stoffer, using a small piece of the load relief at the bottom to help SMEs with a slightly higher energy consumption. That was a specific category that got into extra trouble. That's what the whole package comes from. That is what the letters of amendment are about. I come to one of my favourite subjects as Secretary of State, which I share with Mr Omtzigt: the cars. Mr Stoffer asked whether car taxes could be distributed more evenly in the future. He has drawn attention to the undermining of the bpm. I say it only for a moment technically. I actually only have one answer to that. The right answer is that the only really good solution to this problem is "pay for use" in any form whatsoever. You can talk for hours about whether you want it at all or just electric et cetera. There are all kinds of variants possible. The only good form is that we are going to relate the cost of using cars to the mileage made. In part, we are already doing this through excise duties. I sincerely hope that a new cabinet will adopt this recommendation. Mrs Van Dijk asked about the export of electric cars. I agree. In the budget package this year, the cabinet has chosen to reduce the cap for the tax add-on, so that there could be relatively cheaper electric cars not cheap, but relatively cheaper electric cars. This would also allow the second-hand market to develop more. I will see if I can do something about the so-called Trend Report on the Dutch market in passenger cars, in the sense that we can look at imports and exports of electric cars and if we can take action on them. That's how I understood Mrs. Van Dijk. Then Mr Hammelburg had a question about the administrative burden on the bicycle of the case as part of the compensation. He asked to discuss this with the employers. This will happen next week. Mr Grinwis asked... I see he's not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u132	Should I ask in committee about the outcome of that discussion? Or can I count on a note coming to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u133	You don't have to ask about that. It's gonna be all right after that conversation. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to VAT and greening. Mr Grinwis asked about the exemption of VAT on purchases in circular shops. At the beginning of 2018, the Commission presented a proposal for a directive to give EU Member States more flexibility. Those negotiations are still going on. The Netherlands has advocated the possibility of zero rates for recycling shops. That's where we stand now. Mr Stoffer called for attention to be given to support for SME entrepreneurs in making them more sustainable. I think he's got a point there. We have a special scheme for this, the Environmental Investment Deduction, and SME entrepreneurs can also benefit from it if it is on the list. We also raise them in the current Tax Plan. I agree with him that it is a specific point of attention. I should like to put it this way in order to ensure that SMEs are also made more sustainable. It can often be large amounts. I would like to promise him that I will look into one of the documents that we will send to the Chamber in the coming period. Mr Mulder had a specific question to which I would like to respond. He asked: could the Secretary of State provide the Chamber with annual data on the border effect of different excise duties on tobacco and raw materials, both for the state treasury and for the border pump holder? I'll give you a letter on that. The problem is, and Mr Mulder knows that information on purchases of excise goods across borders is not available. We had a nice discussion about how to window that. We're gonna try, because I think it's okay to have an insight into the real picture. I'll tell him that. I thought I'd run out of green. I'll see if I've forgotten something, but I don't think so. I'm gonna take a quick look at the paperwork. Mr President, I have to do this now. I have here an amendment by Mr Van Raan that I am not going to advise against, but that I am going to give judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u134	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u135	Yeah, I'm sure. I'm gonna take one last look. Yeah, it's true. The amendment concerns the abolition of the refund option for energy-intensive companies and the covenant. At present, this arrangement no longer has material effect, because the agreements have not been renewed. That's why I can get her out of the law. I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u136	What number is that? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u137	I got the number. That is the amendment to item No. 44 (35927). That brings me box 3. I believe that this has two main elements, namely the new system and the opinion of the Advocate General. Everyone who has followed debates in recent years in which we talked about box 3 knows that it is a great pleasure for me to move as quickly as possible to a system based on real returns. The good news is that this seemed to be a distant wish when I took office, and that it is still a distant wish, but that it is much closer, namely in 2025. Last year, when I was not in office for so long, I said in a debate that this could take another ten years. That was the information back then. We've been able to speed up a lot of that. Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Aartsen asked if I see any possibility of accelerating this further. This depends very much on the legislative process and subsequent implementation. Let me just say that these are the two elements that determine that. It depends on how quickly we can do the legislative process. Let me just say a few words about the content and the outline note that is coming. There are real choices in this. There are difficult political choices to make. They will have to be well weighed by Parliament. What exactly are you charging? Do you only charge real-made return, or also return that you make in terms of value? The latter is also a return, but in fact there are no liquid assets against it. Those are the kind of questions that the Chamber will have to answer. First, the new cabinet will have to make a proposal. The introduction period will then depend on adapting ICT systems and space in the famous IV portfolio, or information supply portfolio, of the Tax Administration. I have already made a commitment on this subject to Mrs Van Dijk. So I think 1 January 2025 is real. I will tell my successor in all respects that I think this should be the top priority, but in the same domain, for example, there is disability insurance forzzp'ers. That's also an important thing to enter. It's in the same domain. That's always complicated, but we're gonna try. Can I give a look at the contours of the new system? I would like to do that, but that is, of course, all in the hands of the Chamber itself. In the new system, we can and will actually tax returns: regular gains from assets, interest and dividends, and from value developments of, for example, real estate. That's not your own house. You can do that, but it's a political view whether you want to put that in box 3 or not. Income therefore includes non-realised value developments, for example because shares in value have not yet been sold. I have just mentioned the issue of banking and savings products. I am looking at Mr Aartsen, but Mrs Van Dijk has often drawn attention to the savers. It's relatively simple there. If you save, you can follow the results from day to day. I've said that before in this Chamber. By the way, you can do that when you invest in a fund or something. So the good news is this is possible. The second good news is that this won't last a decade. The less good news is that this is not going to happen next year. The Chamber has asked me a number of times, and again in the WHO, whether I can come up with something else in between. Then you come up with some pretty rough instruments. I put one of those in last year. That is increasing the duty-free rate. It's possible. You can do that even further. Of course, you help with that at the bottom, but the category that some members of your Chamber are asking for attention to, people with relatively high savings as a pension, is only partially helped. I'm being honest about that. The Court asked how I looked at the Advocate General's Opinion and whether I could comment on the preparations. It's a good habit not to say too much about something that, as it's so beautifully called, is under the judge. That's why I really want to limit myself to what I'm saying. Let me put it this way: we have doubts as to whether there really is a contradiction with ECHR law. You know that the Tax Administration can also give a response, and so we have doubts about that. But it may be that the Supreme Court finds that conflict. However, I must point out to you that if the Supreme Court were to make that judgment, it is only a question of whether the Supreme Court is going to say that we must compensate. The last time the Supreme Court gave a ruling on this, he told the government in particular that we should fix it at system level. We had to change something in the system, was the message. Mr Stoffer is quite right to make the point: even if that Supreme Court were not to give this judgment, you might have to think about how you want to deal with it. I really don't want to say anything about it anymore, because it's under the courts, but that's one reason why I do think it's wise to develop a number of scenarios in the house about what we might expect from different statements by the Supreme Court. Again, that statement is not yet available. It may also be that the Supreme Court is waiting for a few other things to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u138	I'll come back to box 3 and the actual return. We have regularly discussed negative interest rates in discussions with the Secretary of State's colleague. We are particularly concerned by the smaller savers that interest rates will continue to fall. My request is that we have a few minutes with our colleague. There is a proposal to see whether agreements can be made with banks and whether there could even be legal arrangements. Perhaps we could do something on that side to at least arrange something for the savers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u139	I'd be happy to. I suspect that this is about Mr Hoekstra. Mrs Van Dijk also asked if I could explain one more time that the method of calculating box 3 in the other fiscal package is not a substantive change. I can confirm that again. There is really no substantive change in the method of calculation. The amendment only ensures that the old legal text is read in conjunction with the article-by-article explanation of the Tax Plan 2016. It is now becoming clearer, because the method of calculation is explicitly incorporated into the law in formula form. Mr Hammelburg asked whether it would not be wise to map the tax burden on power a little better. That's not easy. It's already very difficult... At least, very difficult? It's hard to measure the power exactly. That is one of the reasons why this is not always easy even at the actual rate of return. But the good news is that there is currently an interdepartmental policy investigation into asset distribution. That investigation started in September. Now it's just not in my text when it's finished. Ah, it's there! It's gonna be next spring. Otherwise, Mr Hammelburg is going to ask that question and now he has already received an answer in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u140	I hear here that the motions I have announced are superfluous, but I am going to give them some thought. Mr. Chairman. It's very good that that investigation started. I am very pleased with that, because I believe my predecessor at D66 had asked that last year and the year before. So it's very nice. I said in my contribution yesterday: gosh, put in a number of scenarios for different types of households, so that the Chamber of these different types of taxpayers gets a better picture and we can visualize it better. So my question is whether it is in there and whether we can expect it in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u141	I'll check it out. I suspect so, but I'll check to see if that's true. If not, I think we can add that. That brings me to the end of this section. Which brings me to the lessons a Secretary of State sometimes learns. You will ask: what about the lessons? Well, the Chamber has expanded and rightly capitulated me about my misbehavior around the BIK. More seriously, Mr President, the Chamber has said to me a number of times that I had not done well. I've admitted that, too. I told the Chamber that I would not do this anymore. Which brings me to the stock option scheme. Yesterday, I noticed that I did so a little during the WHO that there are two points of doubt in the Chamber. The first point is still relatively simple, but I want to look at it. That's the point of the execution burden; 11 fte, out of my head. Mrs Maatoug and others asked whether this is proportionate to the purpose it serves. The cabinet thinks so, but if this remark is made widely in the Chamber a number of times, it is wise that is the first lesson, in a moment there will be even more emphasis to look at it. That is the first reason why I will be asking the Chamber in a moment not to vote on this proposal tomorrow but to hold it up for a while. On the second point, I must give credit to Mr Alkaya, because he was the first to point out in the WHO. This is about whether this scheme is also useful for large companies, whether it is the intention and whether you can somehow do something about it. No matter how you turn it, the instrument is meant for start-ups and scale-ups and those are not big companies. Mr Alkaya gave the example of Coolblue. That's not a start-up. That's a scale-up. But I am still sticking to my point, because at the same time it can be important for those start-ups and scale-ups to choose a form of remuneration that can bind people to such a start-up or scale-up in the absence of liquid resources. No one in the Chamber actually denies that either. Mr Aartsen made it even wider yesterday, but that is not the point. So I stand by the objective, but I am beginning to think that larger companies, for whom this scheme is not really intended, could use it. Then the question is whether you want the instrument to be used there or you can put a cap in it. In good Dutch it is called: a ceiling. Mr. Alkaya suggested in this context that 100 people... I have to say it more precisely. Mr Alkaya suggested that you could make the scheme work for less than 100 employees. The logical limit is not actually 100 employees but 250, because that is mostly the SME border in Brussels. But now the second lesson comes from the BIK if I do this in one form or another, I have to pass Brussels, because it may be state aid. It is probably not, because it is probably covered by the SME exemption, but it needs to be checked. I would ask the Chamber to hold the vote for a moment in order to prevent us from making hasty haste about this. Then I'm going to look into these two things and, if necessary, I can always come up with a letter of amendment, if that's necessary, in which I'll arrange something, or not, if that's not necessary. That would be my proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you to the cabinet for this position. The SP is concerned about this, but a number of other parties have indeed expressed their concerns about it. I am convinced in the discussions with the Secretary of State that it will not be widely used by larger companies. At the same time, we cannot rule out the possibility of being abused by a number of larger companies for whom it is not intended. It is good that the cabinet admits this now, because then we do not have to vote against the measure because of the risk of abuse when we find its purpose, the support of small businesses, quite sympathetic. I have also tabled an amendment on this subject which stipulates that it should be limited to a maximum of 100 employees. I'm willing to see if we can make that 250 in due course. Perhaps the proposal will come back in a different way. My question is really for you, Mr President: can we do this in this way? I think it is nice not to vote on this tomorrow. Or should we announce that at the vote tomorrow? In any case, I think it is a good proposal from the Cabinet to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u143	Well, then the Secretary of State has already convinced one group, so that's okay. It's actually a proposal from the Secretary of State. There must be a majority for that in the Chamber. I'll see if there's any objection. No, it's not. We're putting the bill of amendment to the share option rights tax scheme, House of Commons 35929, not to be put to the vote tomorrow. I should also like to look at Mr Alkaya, because he has tabled that amendment. He is now suggesting a new version of it. Oh, of course the amendment will not go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u144	Exactly. If necessary, I will gladly do so again on the new proposal, but I hope it will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u145	The Alkaya amendment (Doc. 35929-8) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u146	I had two more questions for the Secretary of State. Can he give a time indication when he thinks this has been figured out and we can vote on this bill? Can he tell us when he thinks it wise that we should be able to vote on this if he has chosen these two things? In addition to what Mr Alkaya said, can he also take the option of 250 employees instead of just the 100? This is in line with European definitions, for example of large businesses and SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u147	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u148	I'm gonna figure this out for the next few weeks. It may be that we can work better with a turnover limit than a number of persons. Mr Alkaya referred to this a little bit. I'm gonna take a look at the official support. I think in a few weeks we should... Oh, no, I can see it. No, that won't be a few weeks, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u149	The civil servants are pulling out white.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u150	In a few years, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u151	I'll get back to you in second term. Then I can have oral consultations, because this is getting a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u152	I had also asked for the monitoring system to be put in place. Are you going to use these months, I shall assume, as well, to work out that piece, so that it can be presented immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u153	That was lost in my text, but I wanted to say that I thought that was an excellent idea. I'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u154	It is not every day that one day before the vote a law is not put to the vote that we have been talking about for a few weeks. I must express my appreciation for that. Well, that's a good thing to say. I've been quite critical of the cabinet. We were just talking about the BIK. I thought it was a madman who was rushed through the Rooms. Now the Secretary of State comes to the conclusion: the Chamber has put in relevant points that may not make the law so great. I have also made the point myself: must a outgoing cabinet do this, can it not be done by a missionary cabinet six months later? I would like to congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u155	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u156	There is even a little raffle in the hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u157	It makes me shy. I'll get on with it. This brings me to some of the problems of the delegation provisions. Let me start by saying again why we are actually doing this and that you can also choose differently. Here too, I will adopt a very open attitude towards Chambers, also given the character, because the Cabinet considers all this to be appropriate. The reason we are doing this on the blue side, so on the side of the tax collection, is that I suspect that in the coming months, in the coming year, we will have to deal with the question of how we will deal with people who have been duped. The Chamber has had a technical briefing on this from a few of our officials, from the Tax Office. They are highly appreciated officials who have tried to map the problem. We know in any case that because of that FSV list, partly because of that FSV list, I have to be more precise. Some people are probably not allowed to have a friendly debt restructuring in a way that would not have liked. Maybe they weren't even entitled to that, but that didn't go well because of that list. We believe that compensation may be in place there. We don't know yet. We all kept it open, but it could be. Soon, sometime in December, we will be debating this separately in a committee debate. You could say that, if you want to make up for that quickly, you could work with a coat rack law like I have here, with the AMVBs underneath. I note that the Chamber says: Secretary of State, it is all wonderful that you want to do so quickly, but it must be careful and we simply want to have full participation in it and be able to take full responsibility for it. This brings me to a very fundamental point of state law: what about the Council of State and the AMvBs, the general measures of governance? I am now having this discussion with Mrs Van Dijk, because she made the point that the Council of State Opinions will only come when the Chamber has discussed the AMvB. She said: it's nice that we know that then, but then we can't do anything with it.There is a practical solution for that. I'm about to name it. It is going to help, and I hope that Mrs Van Dijk will not find me formalistic after today. The first argument remains formalistic, and I agree with that. I am quite prepared to speak with my colleague in the Justice Department, and in this case I think of Legal Protection, about the question: is it wise that there should be a different regime in general government measures around the Council of State Advice than under normal law? In other words, isn't it obvious to just do the same there? That is a Council of State's advice that simply goes along with it. Does that make it longer? No, it doesn't have to be, because now it's at the end and it could just be in the process sooner. That seems to me to be the fundamental point, and I will take it on board. I'll talk to my colleagues about that. Then there's the practical point. If the Chamber were to adopt this law, can we trust that we will be able to take full account of the Council of State Advice? There Mrs Van Dijk, the Chamber and myself are actually helped by the Open Government Act, which will enter into force in May, I thought. This Open Government Act requires that Council of State opinions belonging to an AMvB should be made public. I would like to say to the Chamber that, despite the fact that the Council of State Advice comes at a time when the AMvB has been dealt with in the Chamber, the Chamber can take them back into consideration in the vote on this AMvB, because the opinions become public. And the Chamber can ask questions about it. Then we have created a detour on which the Council of State Advice is fully involved in the discussion. Then you can say, "Why are you making it all so complicated, Secretary of State?" And: just submit a law, Secretary of State. I can see Mr Mulder saying: my proposal was also to keep it simple. The alternative is to file a law, but then the law will have to go quickly if we want to compensate Msnp later. That's the trade-off. It's up to your room. I did not want to put this law to the vote because I believe that the Chamber should be able to make this assessment itself. But at least I have answered Mrs Van Dijk's question here and I hope Mrs Maatoug's question too. She said, "Why do you do it like that?" I have now tried to make it as concrete as possible, if we could, to apply it next year. That's what I wanted to say. Mrs Van Dijk has also tabled an amendment proposing to upgrade the regular procedure for hanging to a heavy procedure. In this light, it would be strange if I did not wish to give a ruling to the Chamber. The same applies to an amendment tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Hammelburg, which calls for a rapid evaluation within three years of its entry into force. My lawyers say, of course, that we always do that after five years. Then I said: well, then we don't do it now after five years, but then we do it now once after three years. I hope I have answered Mr Stoffer, who asked what the profit is. The profit is in the possible time savings that we book in this way and can use this law flexibly. If the Chamber really does not want that, despite all the guarantees that I am building around it now, that is the right of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. This was the Law poignant cases. Mr Mulder now looks confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u158	He always looks confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u159	Well, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u160	Is this also the end of your first-term contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u161	No, no, no, I have another cube of varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u162	A block of varia: yes, we want that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u163	Yes, you always do. I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u164	I appreciate the whole explanation. It would be a possible solution. But then I still don't understand why it's a problem to withdraw the current law and just work it out properly. The only reason I can think of is that suddenly next week there are poignant cases or something. If that is not the case, why not just take a month now and make that law as the majority of the House has indicated in the debate over the last three days? You wouldn't waste any time, would you? Maybe that's why I looked asking. You solve the problem by being very complicated with the Council of State. Why don't you just make up for that law at once? 'Cause we don't have to finish it next week. Or do you know something more than we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u165	The latter is not the case. I think Mr Mulder and I are talking about each other now. This law as such is finished. There's nothing wrong with that. Just, you can also choose later... let me give you an example. I will then have to file a separate law for those who have been duped by the friendly debt restructuring through FSV. It's possible. That's the alternative. The alternative is not to make this law better. The alternative is that I will come to that particular case later with a legislative proposal. It's possible. Maybe it's fatigue, but I don't quite understand where Mr Mulder is going with this. It hardly ever happens. We disagree sometimes, but I usually understand him. But I don't understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u166	At least it's nice that we understand each other most of the time. There was also criticism of the lack of a lot of concepts and definitions in the hammock law. Afterwards you can solve this with a general measure of governance, but then you had the disadvantage with the advice of the Council of State. You'll solve that, but why don't you better describe the coat rack law first? Now you understand me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u167	Yeah, now I understand the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u168	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u169	Now I think we disagree. Then it's clear that we disagree. On the contrary, I do not want to make it very precise, in order to be able to rely on general administrative measures which can be used in various types of poignant cases. I am setting this example now, but it could also be something else. I am going to say a few words about Mr Omtzigt's question yesterday. In recent years, I have encountered a number of things in the Tax Administration, which I thought might lead to compensation. The FSV is one of them, but I dare not predict that will not happen to my successor. It seems nice to have this law underneath, with the necessary safeguards, the AMvBs. But if the Chamber says "we prefer to have the Secretary of State submit a law per compensation case," then I can live with it. Besides, I just have to live with that. Mr. President, I'm going to the block...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u170	Miss Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u171	I'm about to go to the varia cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u172	I would like to add my compliments to Mr Nijboer. My compliments for this very clear answer, because that helps greatly in the weighing. It was so obvious that it leads to a follow-up question. It has to do with the substantive weighting of those arrangements. How are we gonna do that with each other? We just said that the conversation we're having here matters. We need to look at the substance of a regulation and whether it is appropriate for the problem. How's that? My question to the Secretary of State is: what would that look like with this delegation clause?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u173	I really need to think about this, because I don't know. I'm telling you the truth. I'm trying to think about the case of the FSV. Mrs Maatoug was probably at that briefing, too. As soon as we know more precisely what happened to the friendly debt restructuring and we have an idea of how you could deal with it, I will take it to the Chamber or bring it to my successor. This leads at some point to a proposal for a general measure of governance on how to deal with it. That is the idea, but perhaps it is best if I write down again in the run-up to the debate on the FSV and the fraud lists, which we are going to conduct in December, what that process looks like, because that is what it is really meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u174	Clear. I'd appreciate it if the Secretary of State went through the varia block pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u175	Pointy varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u176	Then we can immediately do the second term of the Chamber and then dine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u177	It will be very pointy, because this question has already been answered by Mrs Van Huffelen. Mr Omtzig asked: when will we get the more complete list of the March list of broken laws? It will be at the state of execution of the Tax Administration. That report will be sent to the Chamber before Christmas. Mr President, I should like to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u178	Well, there was very little varia in the varia cube, but the better. So much for the first term. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u179	Mr Omtzigt still has questions about varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u180	We counted outside Mr. Omtzigt. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u181	Counting apart from me isn't very smart of the chairman. But I thought it was very sensible of the Minister of the Interior to make you President of the Chamber while this debate took place. That makes it a little more boring, because then we will miss your input to the actual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u182	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u183	I didn't speak to you as President of the Chamber. I spoke to you as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u184	But I'm still responding. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u185	Thanks for getting us that complete list. I have a few more questions. My first question concerns the warning about the FSV. Has there been a warning from the previous Data Protection Officer and could we see it? We have some indications for that. I have a second question, but I don't know which Secretary of State I should direct it to. I asked which citizens committed a tortious act. That question is, of course, closely linked to the first question, about the complete list of errors. A tortious act really has a different effect. Then you go to compensation instead of compensation. I have asked this on a regular basis, because I regularly find that there have been unlawful payments. There's been a lot of unlawful acts. I would like to have an overview of that for once. Finally, the CAF business. I got an overview of ten types of CAF cases. Of these, we have only seen what really happened, namely in childcare. That happened to be two rules, because that was both about host parents and childcare institutions. But then there are eight other types of CAF cases, including intermediaries, which I could at first glance think have also been broken. I understand that we're not getting that right now, but I'd like to know in a few weeks if there's any reason to think that citizens and intermediaries... Can I know how they've been handled in the other eight cases? Has this been done in the same way against citizens as against the childcare allowance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr Omtzigt asked three questions. Maybe I can say yes on the last two. Can I make a list or give an overview of "unrighteous act"? As far as I can, I'm gonna fix it. You have that commitment, but I cannot put a deadline on it. I don't know how long that's gonna take, but at CAF, I can do that. I can promise you that I have done this before, but perhaps that has gone wrong in the communication "We are trying to inform you more about these other matters at the beginning of 2022. By "overview," you mean the "written answers," right? I'm just asking to make sure we understand each other. So that's gonna be early 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u187	Would it be possible for me to know the intermediate positions on both of them at the stage of implementation? I'm not asking for completeness, but then I know where we're about in those cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u188	Yeah, we're gonna try. At the CAF, you mean now, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u189	Yeah, and also the illegal cases we know then. Then you may make the reservation that this is not complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u190	In the case of tortious acts, I would like to point out once again that Mr Omtzigt is aware of the fact that these are always individual cases. But we're gonna try. Indeed, I forgot the question about the Data Protection Officer. I'm sorry about that. That's what you've been asking for. In 2018, a data protection impact assessment, the so-called GF, was started on the FSV, which was completed in concept in 2019. This already indicated that the FSV contained risks and that measures were needed. I think we have already shared this once, I say to Mr Omtzigt. By then, measures should have been taken. We all know how that happened: it didn't happen. Mrs Van Huffelen and I then stopped FSV almost immediately after our arrival in February or March. However, Mr Omtzigt seems to say that he has some clues, which is why I am very cautious, because I do not think that there have been any signals about FSV before. Is that what Mr Ommzigt means?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u191	Yes. I would ask the government to investigate what indications have emerged over the past four or five years. Because I think these Secretary of State did the right thing when they saw what happened here when they arrived, so it doesn't have a political connotation in the sense of: hey, what's going on here? When entering the GDPR and preparing for it, of course there have been people who have said: yes, but this system does not, of course, meet the GDPR, even approximate. Of course, you'll never get it AVG compliant. That is perfectly clear. I would like to know whether these messages came up at the official or administrative summit and what was done with them at that time. But I also understand that I am not getting an answer to that now, but I would like to receive a letter on this within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u192	Yes. The answer is yes, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u193	Okay. Mr. Nijboer still? Oh, you were just neighboring? Cozy! That's okay, keep moving. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u194	Many nice answers have been given. I was gone for a while, by the way, but that had to do with an appointment for another ministry, which I also represent. The Secretary of State went very quickly, but I think he missed one thing, because of course we have followed it. I had asked whether the Secretary of State could undertake that the family test, which we discussed in the legislative consultation but also here, could be included in the evaluation of the BOR scheme. In my view, yesterday, I also mentioned it literally, but it is perhaps more important if the Secretary of State would like to talk to the family companies to see if there is a simple............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If the Secretary of State says, "I'm okay with that," then I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u195	I'm okay with this. I'm just having some hesitation. The BOR was discussed for a while, but there weren't really many questions asked about it. This question has been asked about the BOR. Mr Omtzigt more or less had a statement about the BOR. I was just thinking, am I gonna cut that or what? For the viewers: that is the company succession scheme, not the wolf from the Fabeltjeskrant. It is a scheme that should make it possible to more easily inherit family businesses, so to speak. There's two sides to that. It is crystal clear that there are two sides here. On the one hand, there is the side that Mr Stoffer hangs a bit, namely that sometimes the BOR does not sound "space" wrong enough. On the other hand, there is evidence of abuse of the BOR. I am referring here to building blocks for a better tax system, which I believe is in place. We're trying... I'm saying "we're trying," but I'm actually not. I thought there'd be an evaluation of the BOR coming to your room soon. I think we should try to strike a balance between these two sides of the business succession scheme. Because on the one hand, I am sensitive to the argument of abuse. Mr Omtzigt gave an example of this. On the other hand, I am also sensitive to the argument that this is typically an arrangement that exists in countries around us, and that we are perhaps going to push beautiful family farms across the border by taking some rough action in that arrangement. I've been talking for a long time now. I don't really know if I'm gonna give you a good answer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u196	The Secretary of State is making a two-way approach. One side was indeed appointed by Mr Omtzigt. We see them, too. The other is exactly what we are afraid of: that your family businesses are pushing across the border to Belgium or to France, where that fits. Actually, my question is as follows. It's not easy to solve, but I think the Secretary of State has a pretty good idea where it is. If that is possible in the evaluation, and he might be able to talk about it off the record with some of those companies, or let them talk about it, it will help enormously. So I think we understand each other very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u197	Both things are okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u198	Very good. So much for the first term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Mr Mulder needs that. You will have one third of the first-term speaking time, so if I do the same calculation, that will be 49 seconds for Mr Mulder. You get a little more, but short and pointy is appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u199	I've got 40 seconds. Inflation rises, messages become more expensive and a warm house threatens to become a luxury. In this Tax Plan, the government does nothing for the purchasing power of ordinary citizens. In fact, it's getting worse. We heard yesterday from D66 and from my CDA colleague that they also had no explanation for the fact that all the measures taken by this Secretary of State are beneficial only for the upper layer, for the happy few, for the elite Tesla elite. Most of the redistribution of money from poor to rich, colleagues, is due to the nonsense of climate policy. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to immediately abolish the storage of renewable energy and climate transition, the ODE, and the promotion of sustainable energy production and climate transition, the SDE++,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u200	Mr. Chairman. The PVV has often shown that this cabinet makes wrong choices. Nowhere does that become clearer than at the gas pump in the Netherlands. Meanwhile, the Netherlands has the highest petrol price in the world, except Hong Kong. But we are not bordering on Hong Kong; we are bordering on Germany and Belgium, where the petrol price is between €0.30 and €0.50 per litre lower. This has nothing to do with the cost of petrol, but everything to do with the ridiculously high excise duty and VAT. The price per litre now consists of almost 70% taxes. Hence the next motion, for anyone who has a heart for border entrepreneurs and the wallet of the Dutch citizen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the difference with the petrol price used in neighbouring countries is disproportionately high;]] [[noting that more than half of the petrol price consists of excise duties and taxes;]] [[Whereas the high price of petrol is detrimental to the purchasing power of citizens;]] [[Whereas operators in the border region are hard hit by the high price of petrol;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the excise duty on petrol by €0.30 per litre,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u201	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been working for years to fathom the treasury of Germany and Belgium. This is because of the differences in fuel prices, but also because of the differences in tobacco prices. Several studies show that we're leaking a lot of money. We don't know exactly how much. The Smuggle Monitor I can recommend to anyone in this room to read it carefully and get to 1 billion. The Minister is talking about just over 500 million. In the context of'measuring is knowing' and 'facts matter', I wanted to table a motion for that, but I have just received a commitment from the Secretary of State to investigate this properly and to send us those figures annually. It's already been adopted, I'll see. That is a joyous fact. I have two motions from the PVV against discrimination. That's important, too. We begin by saying that subsidising the rich upper layer at the expense of the common man should stop. Favouring electric cars with many billions every year is scandalous. It should also be unnecessary, ladies and gentlemen. If people drive an electric car because it makes them feel better, they should also want to pay a little more. It should be the other way around: we should burden them. But as I said, the PVV is not in favour of increasing the burden and against discrimination. So we want equal treatment for real cars and plug cars. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many billions of euro have already been spent on the "greening" of the fleet without any result;]] [[noting that the tax subsidy therefore qualifies as lost money;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the subsidy for electric vehicles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u202	Finally, Mr President. The Netherlands is facing a difficult time. You know, winter is coming. It is therefore incomprehensible that expats are still being promoted through the 30% regime. We want to abolish this 30% regime. That is why I have the next motion for a resolution for everyone who is against discrimination against workers among themselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the 30% regime for expats,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u203	It's about the motion on electric cars. I have a proposal for that, too. Mr Mulder spoke about 'the grant'. What kind of subsidy does he mean exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u204	In many ways electric cars are subsidised. First things got completely out of hand. We threw away $7 billion for the Errorlander. Then came the whole thing with the Tesla. Now there's a cap on it, but still paying drivers of an electric car less than that of a normal, normal car. We want to equalize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u205	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u206	So you mean all the favors, including, for example, the fact that no excise duty is paid because you don't refuel and all those things? You mean subsidy in a broad sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u207	I'm totally against discrimination. We've had a chance to discuss it before. That's when we finally came to an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u208	I just wanted to make it clear: all the favors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u209	Perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u211	Then Mr Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u212	Mr. Chairman. I was promised twice a horror treatment until the middle of the night. I don't know exactly what happened to this Tax Plan, but I'm glad it didn't happen. Although, we may have some time to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u213	Don't ask how, but enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u214	I'll be sure to. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both Secretary of State and the Minister for the reply just now. I'm just finishing up a couple of cases. I'd like to start with the surcharges. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering some of the questions we have put here. I think it would be good if this kind of bottlenecks were better highlighted in cooperation with the municipalities. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she can continue the conversation with the municipalities, to see how these kinds of bottlenecks can be solved one-on-one, rather than via media, politics or that sort of thing. I don't think there's any reluctance on either side. Mr. Chairman. A second case concerns a question I would have liked to ask in the first period, but then my time was up. That question was about the legislative proposal Averting mismatches in the application of business principle. This was about Article 8bd on the wider scope of application. How should its width be seen? This also concerns the legal history of a legislative proposal. Is this wise or not, I would like to ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. A third point concerns performance agreements. I would like to thank the Minister of Housing. We really look forward to clear, clear, clear agreements. She gave a somewhat technical answer on the distinction between the tax rebates and so on. I think it is important to say that it is the intention of the Chamber to actually spend that money on additional housing and sustainability. It is important that concrete agreements are made with the corporations. As promised, we would like to see them before the vote in the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Finally, box 3. The Secretary of State gave a comprehensive answer to that question. On the one hand, he said that the legislative process takes time. I get that, even if you're gonna zoom in on some things. At the same time, I would like to ask for the outline note to include the current situation. You can see infinitely what should change in the future, but in my opinion Mr Van Dijk said that even now there is a group of people who want to handle their money sparingly and are disadvantaged for that very reason, because the Tax Office assumes that these people are investing. You could take that assumption with you in the contour note. Can the Secretary of State include in the contour note the assumption of the Tax Administration that people are going on an adventure on the investment market by default? That was my second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u215	Fine. Thank you so much. Then Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many tenants have great difficulty in paying the rent each month because they have lost an ever higher percentage of their income in housing costs;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities for a reduction in basic rentals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u217	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that rents increased by 162% between 1990 and 2020 and that rents increased 1.8 times as fast as inflation;]] [[Whereas many tenants are trapped in both the social and the free sector;]] [[calls on the government to freeze the rents for the upcoming cabinet period in both the social and the free sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the one-time rent reduction Act can be very useful for people experiencing an income drop;]] [[calls on the Government to convert the one-time lease reduction Act into a permanent law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-59]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u218	And the last one on my side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that low-income tenants and initial hire above the liberalisation limit are not entitled to rent allowance;]] [[Whereas these tenants may need very much rent payment;]] [[calls on the Government to make rent allowance also accessible for rents above the liberalisation limit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u219	Mr. Chairman. That was four motions from me on affordability. Of course, we maintain our amendment to delete the landlord levy and we support Mr Nijboer's amendment to at least ensure that the landlord levy does not rise again, contrary to what has been promised. Further motions and contributions will be made next Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u220	We look forward to that. Mr Hammelburg thinks he is going to speak, but we are really going to listen to Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the rulers for answering our questions. We have many hours in this debate, not only yesterday and today, but also in all the legislative proposals for it. We've had a lot of exchanges. I agree with what has been said about the de facto repeal of the law on share option rights. I think that's a good idea. My group had serious reservations about what that law looked like. But we look forward to another proposal specifically aimed at small start-ups. Then we can vote for it with more comfort. Of course, that depends entirely on what the cabinet is going to come up with. We look forward to that. I have one proposal on exactly the same subject on which I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Mulder. This has been less so today, but in the legislative debate it was about tax incentives and subsidies for emissions-free driving. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the increasing use of electric cars leads to loss of income through, for example, excise duty and add-on, which has now been temporarily resolved with additional budgetary space;]] [[Considers that this should not lead to any increase in the burden in the future for people who do not have an electric car;]] [[calls on the cabinet to resolve the loss of income due to increasing use of electric cars with additional burdens for those same people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u222	The request is clear in itself, but what is Mr Alkaya's solution to this? Does he want to increase the energy tax on electricity only for drivers of an electric car?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u223	You have to look at it in its entirety. We have had our election programme passed on to the Central Planning Bureau and the Planning Office for the Environment. In this we show that you can also reduce CO emissions by making honest and social choices. This has to do, on the one hand, with the imposition of producer standards, for example. From a given date, we can only drive emission-free. Until then, we do not think it wise, for example, to introduce a mileage tax for everyone in the Netherlands because of the loss of income due to a specific problem. So our solution is not just about electric driving. Then you have to look at the issue of climate and the reduction of CO emissions. This is specifically about the following. If the cabinet continues with all this tax stimulus, we should not transfer that cost to people who have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u224	Fine. No, Mr. Grinwis, we're going to Mr. Hammelburg. I just want to be very brief in terms of interruptions in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u225	This is not a real answer to my question about the problem that has been identified, but that comes with the drink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u226	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u227	I think I have given a very comprehensive answer. You've cut me off a few times. I've done my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u228	You're doing your best. It's on the record. Mr. Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I will not be tempted to go along with Mr Grinwis in the debate with Mr Alkaya. I do, of course, agree with that, but we had that debate last week. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet, the two Secretary of State and the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the questions, not only today, but also last week's written questions and the questions from the WHO. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the good discussions we have had on a wide range of issues. Despite the fact that this was a so-called policy-poor or policy-sleeve tax package, we were able to get on with it in detail with all of us. That's not for nothing, because it's incredibly important. Mr. Chairman. I had two motions for resolutions on the mapping of assets, power distribution and the tax burden on assets in the Netherlands. But I have also heard from the Secretary of State that an investigation was launched in September. I am pleased about that and that the results will come in spring. At the same time, I am pleased that the Secretary of State has just promised to identify different types of asset compositions of different types of households. We have, of course, complained more often and asked for understanding of the complexity of this. I can say "bitch," but I know it's not easy. I shall put forward a motion to make this an annual tradition. Here he comes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is only a very limited understanding of the tax burden on assets;]] [[Whereas this understanding can help to develop policies to address social inequality;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually on the tax burden on different types of asset compositions of different types of households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hammelburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u230	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers to the questions about cutting up companies from e.g. to fall into the lower rate of profit tax. I still have a motion to get a little certainty for the future. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the low profit tax rate is not intended for large companies with large profits;]] [[noting that structures are currently being created to make artificial use of the low profit tax rate;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the scale and manner in which the low profit tax rate is being used improperly;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to address the misuse if the monitoring gives rise to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hammelburg and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u231	Finally, Mr President. I understand the State Secretary's reply on the anchoring of international agreements on minimum rates in Dutch legislation. As D66's need for security on this point. Once the signature has been signed, we also want action in the Netherlands. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas far-reaching steps have been taken at international level to achieve a minimum profit tax rate;]] [[Considering that this could make national legislation more effective, such as the proposal to address mismatches in the application of the business principle;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber immediately after the conclusion of an international agreement on a minimum profit tax rate which national legislation requires adaptation as a result of this agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hammelburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u232	I have a question about one of the motions, the one about cutting up e.g.s. I see that Mr Hammelburg is now destroying his motions very drastically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u233	That was the motion that was superfluous and I did not table it. That is a good tradition in this Chamber: unnecessary motions become a lump.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u234	Yeah, it's gonna be clots. Those who listen to the tax advisory offices know that cutting up e.g. is the hobby of the day. Up to four tons you pay 10% less tax. With every bv that separates you from your main - for example, you save €40,000 income tax. Even better, this rate effectively pays lawyers and orthodontists and all kinds of other people who can work through an e.g., a marginal rate of up to four tons of about 36%. That's pretty low compared to the rest of the Netherlands, I'll say. So we already know what the problem is. It's done on a massive scale. Some amendments have been tabled, for example by GroenLinks. We can also rectify this in other ways. Why are we gonna monitor it first, knowing that this is happening, and then we're not gonna fix it for another year? We can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u235	I do have a feeling of déjà vu now, because I have already had this discussion with Mrs Maatoug. The Secretary of State has given a comprehensive answer to Mrs Maatoug's amendment as to why the net is moving a little too fast, while I very much understand its intention. Yes, I also listen very carefully to the different sounds from society that say: this is a large-scale problem. Just, I want the Cabinet to map this, the Cabinet to monitor this and come up with proposals. Then the ball is in the cabinet instead of the field. That's what my motion is about. I am not very concerned about that happening in the very short term. I have already heard that debate with the Secretary of State, but perhaps Mr Omtzigt was not in the Chamber at the time. So I am less concerned about it than Mr Omtzigt, but I do want the cabinet to be at the ball here and the cabinet to come up with solutions within the rules that make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u236	I actually want to move on to the next speaker, but Mr. Omtzig is again short and pointy and rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u237	With normal things in the execution it is very simple: the cabinet is the move in the execution and we will check afterwards if it is a bit decently executed. But this is not about the execution. We are talking about laws that we may or may not approve. We know that if we put it that way in the law... It was also stated in the D66 election programme that we should not do it at all, as in most electoral programmes. Hardly anyone...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u238	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u239	Then you'll have to record it here, won't you? Then you shouldn't be monitoring, right? Do you think this law is okay? Or do you think this law isn't okay? And if it's not okay, why don't you try it on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u240	I think Mr Omtzigt is making things a little too easy here. He does not do justice to the debate we had earlier today, nor to the WHO last week, which we discussed in detail. I can now start repeating this debate completely, but I have already expressed my concern that if the gap between low and high rates becomes too large, this will lead to more abuse. Even the Secretary of State recognizes that principle. I now want the cabinet to look very quickly at how big the problem is, where the break-even point is and how we could adapt it. I think that's a klip-and-ready request and not something that can't come to the Chamber for another ten years. It can be done in the short term. I think this is a little faint, quite frankly, and this debate has already been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u241	Thank you. You're done with your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u242	I'm done with my term, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u243	Then we will go to the following speaker: Mr Nijboer. I call Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I started a few weeks ago with a compliment to the Secretary of State for the process that we finally got the documents under embargo, that the laws were also offered neatly separately and that no tying was done this time. In fact, another law has been passed which was intended to link a law to it. I think that is a good thing. There's got to be something wrong with me. Given the General Political Reviews, I expected that with a missionary Chamber and a outgoing cabinet there would have been some more substantial changes to be achieved by the Chamber. I think that the Secretary of State has answered the substance of the debate in the Chamber. I liked the content of the discussion, but political choices are also being made. You can see that the formation closes the door to all substantive choices, even for choices that the directors would like to see taken. Minister Ollongren said today: "That Housing Fund is very important. We shouldn't stop that. It will end on January 1st, but that will have to happen next year. But I'm not gonna do it." But it's 450 million occasionally that seems like a lot of money, and if you have it at home in the bank, it's also a bit like that, and that's something that would have been settled in four whole days of debate with good will. I've tried everything for that. I've made an amendment and I've provided cover. I'm also willing to look at other coverages. I have indicated this several times to the cabinet, from the beginning, with Mrs Maatoug. I did that today, and I can do it tomorrow. If you don't want to move, nothing changes. That is a shame, because I really think that legislation and policy will be improved by proposals, including those of opposition parties. And I think that such a Housing Fund would be better for the viability of neighborhoods in the Netherlands, that you could find support for them from left to right and that that would have been possible. I have to establish that. The same goes for the WOZ cap, the amendment not to increase the landlord's tax further. The Chamber wants to get rid of it, except Van Haga and the VVD. Then you have a handy amendment and you still don't manage to do it. Then my third point about living. I understand that parties are against it from the interests they serve. I converted the prince-bernhard tax into an amendment. It's worth 132 million in structural terms. Investors buy up the cities and ask for the top prizes, and tenants don't intervene anymore. It's a nice amendment. I have not yet received a reply from the Secretary of State for the second term, which I would like to receive. I also like to bring it to the warmest attention. It was said in the election campaign that it was populist and this and that, but I worked it out very precisely in legislation. Mr President, I have four minutes and I will stick to them. I see you sighing, but I'm not speaking that extensively. I would very much like to respond to this. Mr. Chairman. I shall put the motion on energy labels to the vote tomorrow, because the cabinet has rejected it. I'm sorry about that, too. It's been a chance to do that. The room still has a chance to realize that rent discount. And I have a motion, which is inspired by the debate, to close it a little cheerfully. I'm hoping for judgment, Room. The Secretary of State came up with that idea and I thought: damn, that's a pretty good idea; let's ask the Secretary of State. That also closes it nicely and makes the start with the Financial Reviews and the end with the Tax Plan nicely. It's about the pen parade. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the understanding of the distribution of assets in the Netherlands is limited;]] [[Whereas the Penparade has acquired worldwide fame for income inequality;]] [[invites the Cabinet to investigate what the Penparade about wealth looks like for the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Maatoug, Mr Alkaya and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the pleasant debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u246	Beautiful. Then Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, thank you for the comprehensive response and the process. I've been able to make a lot of motions. That is a good sign, because there have been commitments. We have heard from the Secretary of State that according to him, the method of calculating box 3, which is now being clarified, follows what was already in the law. We still have a difference of opinion on this method of calculation. I'd like to make that clear. We particularly hope now that the Secretary of State will make haste with the revision of box 3. Hopefully it'll be there before 2025. We think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to elaborate directions on how to deal with any negative ruling by the Supreme Court. I have two motions. They are dealing with feasibility and ICT capacity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the tax administration's ICT systems are outdated and that new legislation or legislative changes affect the ICT capacity of the tax administration and pose potential risks;]] [[Whereas it is important that the Court has sufficient insight into the available capacity to make well-balanced choices regarding priorities and risks in legislation;]] [[calls on the government to add to the tax plan a section on the status of ICT to the Tax Administration every year, including:]] [[the status of the renewal of ICT systems on components and available capacity;]] [[the implications of the proposals submitted for ICT and whether these proposals alleviate or increase ICT;]] [[a qualification of the proposals submitted in relation to the impact on society compared to the impact on ICT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Hammelburg and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u248	Then there is the second motion, on feasibility and complexity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of motions and amendments in the field of taxation, the Court must have a clear picture of the impact they have on the complexity of legislation, its implementation and the period during which a motion or amendment which amends legislation is enforceable;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate, where relevant, the implications for the complexity of legislation, implementation and implementation, in the appreciation of motions and amendments relating to taxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Hammelburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u249	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u250	Thank you. Then Mrs Maatoug from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u251	Two comments, two questions and two motions in three minutes. Oh, it's four minutes. It's gonna work. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the two comments. Have a nice debate. Thank you to the colleagues. It's been three very nice days. I began my speech in the Chamber by saying 'political is making choices'. This discussion and the debate here have led to a different weighting. Once again, I would like to congratulate you on this. I would remind all the groups that we are making choices that can only be made this year. We can't move it to the formation table. I am therefore very interested in answering the question of the weighting of the arguments on mismatches and the year that we allow for transitional rights. The Secretary of State has promised that answer for the second term. That's what I'm curious about. I mentioned it a few times in the debate, which I am not going to do over: raising the rates for the highest disk, and what that does. If that goes upstairs, we did. Then we can conclude afterwards that we should not have done so, but you can also think of that with each other in advance. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two supplementary questions. Thank you for the very clear answers from the Secretary of State on the delegation clause. We also got a commitment about a letter. I still have a dilemma. We'll get that letter after we have to vote. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will be able to say something about the substantive process, so that we can take that into account in our weighting for tomorrow's vote. Tomorrow we, as political groups, will have to decide how to deal with it. That is very important for my group. Finally, it would also be nice if the Secretary of State were to give an equally clear statement of the opinion on the amendments. I couldn't track that in the speed of the input. By the way, I very much like to press that third new judgment... something we have come up with today...................................................................................................................................................................... The political groups will know when they can make a different political choice. Then my first motion! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas it is good news that an agreement has been concluded with 136 countries to combat tax avoidance;]] [[whereas the global compromise on a number of aspects goes less far in tackling tax avoidance than the Dutch cabinet had hoped;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to promote, in the further development of this agreement, both at European level and in the national implementation of legislation and regulations, the most effective approach to tax avoidance with as few mitigations and exemptions as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that it is a good step by the Cabinet to counter mismatches in the application of the arm's length principle;]] [[Considering that, despite this legislative proposal, there are still situations of double non-taxation, e.g. where a multinational has "business" transactions with Bermuda, where no profit tax is levied;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt additional legislation extending the approach to transfer pricing mismatches to all situations where there is double non-taxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-69]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u252	Finally, with 1 minute 19, 18, 17, 16.............................................................................................................................................................................. We discussed a number of amendments in the debate. I'm serious: I just got good feedback in the debate. And indeed, let's be accurate in days and years. Mr Nijboer already referred to the amendment on the jubelton. It's not just about the cover, because if we're together... That was also very nice when Mr Hammelburg tabled a motion on power inequality. Then there is an evaluation, in which it is said that power inequality is increasing. Then we know from that instrument............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We also know from the Tax Administration's execution tests that it takes longer, and even years longer, if we determined that now. Then I think, with a housing crisis, we don't have the luxury of putting that out for us. So I ask the groups to take a good look at that. I have a lot of good faith in that! That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u253	Glad that GroenLinks has a lot of faith in other groups. Mr Grinwis from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the directors for answering the questions. First, the landlord's tax. I did not think that the answer to the questions on the estimate was entirely satisfactory and I therefore tabled the next motion together with Mr Inge van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant differences in and between estimates and realisation of various tax revenues;]] [[Whereas, for example, the linking of the landlord's levy to the WOZ value in recent years has led to significant differences in and between estimates and realization;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the Windowwork report, to make efforts to improve the quality of the estimates and, where relevant, to measure the estimates shortly for the establishment of the Millions Note, in order to obtain a more accurate picture of the expected achievement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u255	So much for this motion. I would also like to thank the directors for their reply. I look forward to the follow-up and the votes tomorrow. I am still encouraging Secretary of State Vijlbrief to work not only carefully but also vigorously in Europe with the motions that have been adopted. I am thinking, for example, of the one about the cycle and VAT. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u256	Thank you. Then Mr Van Raan of Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u257	Thank you, Mr President. I see the glass next to me is completely full, so that's good news. Mr. Chairman. First of all, on the question of how to answer the questions. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply, but I note, in view of the disappointment he felt, that eight of the twelve have not been answered. That's why I have the note with the questions here. Maybe he can take a look at what questions he might be able to answer in the second term. I'd appreciate that. Then there are a number of motions, Mr. Chairman. They come in addition to the amendments to put an end to fossil subsidies. Like the amendments, these motions can simply be tabled. They are about ending the fossil subsidies, and that is, again, also the appeal of the Chamber in Glasgow. Hence the next five motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in line with the Van Raan/Nijboer motion adopted, the Cabinet will explore how to synchronize the Broad Prosperity Monitor (MBW) and the Climate and Energy Exploration (KEV) with the budgetary cycle;]] [[calls on the government to integrate the MBW and the KEV into the decision-making process of the Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u258	That is an extra piece of synchronization. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that 81 million has been earmarked in the EZK budget to compensate companies for the costs they have to incur within the ETS due to their CO emissions, whereas the Climate Agreement indicated that this scheme would expire in 2020;]] [[whereas the EU ETS system is precisely designed to create a price incentive;]] [[Whereas it is not up to a outgoing cabinet, under the pretext of pre-empting a final decision, to continue a fossil grant of EUR 81 million in tax money;]] [[calls on the government to use these resources to combat energy poverty among the poorest households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet indicated and does intend to take steps in the field of fiscal greening;]] [[calls on the government to indicate on an annual basis when presenting the Tax Plan how much CO reduction leads to our tax legislation and what that means for achieving the climate targets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government introduced an additional fossil subsidy this spring to make the detection or extraction of natural gas in the North Sea more attractive;]] [[noting that the Dutch taxpayers again pay for this, while they also pay for the extremely high gas prices and therefore benefit from alternatives to gas;]] [[noting that the government has committed itself to phasing out fossil subsidies;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the increase in the investment deduction for investments in the detection and extraction of gas in the North Sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-73]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Alkaya and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-74]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u259	And then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the VAT rate on flower bulbs, flowers, plants and nursery products was reduced in 1975 from the general rate of 21% to the low rate of 9% in order to stimulate turnover and employment in horticulture;]] [[Whereas ornamental products are among the most intensively sprayed crops, that the soil is exhausted in cultivation, that employment is largely filled by migrant workers and that the promotion of ornamental farming is at the expense of food horticulture;]] [[calls on the Government to place ornamental products below the general rate of 21%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u260	I would once again like to thank the directors for their reply. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u261	Thank you. Then Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u262	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the cabinet for taking all three together for the answer to the questions and certainly for the commitments. I would just like to refer to one of them, the commitment to look with SMEs at how this can be supported fiscally in terms of sustainability and related investment. I assume that the Chamber will be kept informed of any claims. Mr. Chairman. I also have two motions. They shall read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the structural reduction of EUR 300 million in the energy tax from 2023 has not yet been completed;]] [[Whereas both small and medium-sized enterprises and households should benefit from this reduction;]] [[Whereas an increase in tax relief is desirable, so that low incomes benefit relatively more, and that a reduction in the third strand of storage of renewable energy is desirable in order to stimulate electrification;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Tax Plan 2023 a proposal to allocate 150 million for an increase in the tax reduction in the energy tax and 150 million for a reduction in the third tranche of the ODE,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u263	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas several farms want to stop farming activities, but that this is hampered by tax regulations, and that different stopper schemes for agricultural holdings are established and introduced which take only limited account of the taxation aspect;]] [[Whereas municipalities and provinces are concerned about the impoverishment of the agricultural buildings released, as demolition is postponed due to the fiscal consequences of demolition;]] [[Whereas proper cessation of farming can contribute to the environment, landscape and vitality of the sector;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties, to identify the fiscal bottlenecks for proper cessation of farming operations and the possibilities for tackling these bottlenecks, and to set up a working group to this end, if necessary, and to inform the Court of Justice before 1 April 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u265	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Omtzigt. After him, I'll suspend for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have a few outstanding questions. The first was the general question as to whether a large letter of amendment is being discussed in the background. Like Mr Nijboer, I commend the government for listening to the Chamber and for us to look again at the legislative proposal that we have the most doubts about here, namely about the share option rights and whether they do not have the wrong consequences. I think that's very wise. But I want to know if there is another letter of amendment that is going to turn everything upside down. A new government tends to do that. Since the old government and the new government are surprisingly similar, I would ask the old government as well. Mr. Chairman. It is difficult to see what will happen to purchasing power next year. This Tax Plan contains the so-called table correction factor of 1.2%. This means that all amounts are indexed by 1.2%. Today's inflation has risen to 3.7% according to the European definition. I've never actually seen a hole this big. It means that all these tax reductions are only slightly increased, while inflation requires much more. It is being repaired a little bit with, for example, the extra reduction in energy taxes, but the government is running a considerable risk of raising citizens' taxes here. If inflation continues, it will become extremely difficult. I will come back to the Social Affairs budget, but I thought I'd just give the warning. I was a little disappointed in the answer that was chosen to lower electricity prices and not gas prices. People sitting in an old rental house don't have a heat pump and they have the biggest problems. I know that I am asking for the road I know, but I ask the government once again: please lower the energy tax on gas and not the energy tax on electricity. Then you help the people who suffer most from it and the least sense of action, as it is so beautifully called. I had asked for a plan for cars and a tax plan for rent and buy. I hope we get that in the next few months. How do we make it fairer? How do we ensure that people can drive to work if they do not receive compensation from their employer? How do we ensure that taxes are not €1,400 for an affordable rental house and €120 for a home milker? I just don't think that's right, so do something about that and make a plan. It doesn't have to be right now, but could we make a comparison before the summer so we can see what we can do? At box three, we're gonna prepare a compensation. We've seen before that the cabinet didn't think the ECHR could do anything. At Urgenda, we saw the consequences. Be careful. I find these changes to the OFM anything but beautiful. And wait again until 2025 while the injustice has been going on since 2016? Nine years is a very long time. Thank you for the commitment to clarify CumEx, the list errors, the warning FSV, the CAF cases and tortious deed, and everything for Christmas. Then there are a number of motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that of a limited group of children (50,000) in the childcare allowance scandal, 1,115 have already been removed from home by a judicial authorisation over a limited period;]] [[noting that this group would be larger if the whole period were taken into account;]] [[noting that the group is shrinking because not every removal in this group is necessarily the result of the surcharge scandal;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to conduct independent research into the scale of the problem and how it has been possible to do so for years;]] [[propose how and when parents and children are reunited where retirement is still taking place;]] [[set up a reporting point for parents affected by this;]] [[indicate how justice can be done to parents and children;]] [[and invites the Government to inform the Chamber shortly how this motion is being taken forward,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Kwint, Mr Nijboer, Mr Stoffer, Mr Maatoug, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Den Haan, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mr President, a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that approximately 5% of court rulings in taxation and surcharges are published anonymously;]] [[noting that the Venice Commission notes that it is desirable that the rulings and underlying reasonings of at least the courts, the Supreme Court and the Council of State should be published and that anonymisation is becoming increasingly easy with ICT applications;]] [[noting that if all the supplement cases had been published, it had become more apparent that there were a number of massive problems for parents;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the number of judgments published anonymously to at least 50% in the coming years, starting with the courts and the Council of State and then with the courts, and to inform the Court within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Nijboer, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Stoffer, Mr Maatoug, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Den Haan, Mr Alkaya and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u268	Then I have two short motions. I just made it. I shouldn't be here because of my time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the Tax Administration should only use a law firm that is not infected by a major fraud case;]] [[calls on the government to stop using the current state attorney, Pels Rijcken, on tax and surcharge matters with immediate effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of tax advisory offices recommend the following construction in the case of succession:]] [[the old generation gives the company to the young generation and uses the BOR;]] [[after more than five years, the old generation buys back the company from the young generation at the highest possible price, resulting in a debt;]] [[Over time, the company passes on to the young generation through the BOR/BOF in the event of death or through a second donation, so that de facto no donation/inheritance tax is paid;]] [[believes that within a family per generation, the BOR should only be able to benefit once;]] [[calls on the government to lay down this in the lower regulations and thereby make this structure, double BOFs, impossible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-81]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u269	Double luck. That's what they think. This is double bad luck for the taxpayer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u270	Double luck with the BOR?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u271	Yeah, double luck with the BOR. It is a construction that is not available to normal people and that actually makes business transfer free.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u272	Thank you. You're gonna explain that to us some other time, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u273	Are you going to give me the opportunity to do that? Was this an invitation, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u274	Absolutely not! I need to change the subject quickly. So much for the second term of office. I'm suspending until 7:00 for dinner. I would point out to the Secretary of State that a reasonable number of amendments have not yet been appreciated. We have now passed that on to the official staff, so you will get the list. And of course we also like to hear the comments on the motions. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u275	Especially now that I am alone in this Chamber, I would very much appreciate it if there is a list of all the appreciations of motions and amendments before 10 a.m. tomorrow morning, because it is going to be a lot like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u276	Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to say a few words?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u277	I wanted to send a note with everything in it, according to what's customary. That is what Mr Omtzigt is referring to. That's what he gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u278	Fine. Until 7:00!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u279	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One question, two motions. First, Mr Van Aartsen's question on cooperation with the municipalities. Fortunately, we have a very good cooperation with the municipalities. We talk to them all the time. The municipalities are also members of the so-called Ministerial Committee on Recovery Fees. The specific subject you asked for, namely the exchange of information, is also an important part of the discussions we are having with each other. So I will certainly continue to do so, because that was your call. Then two motions. The motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's 79 concerns children and expulsions. There will be a letter from the Minister for Legal Protection on this subject this month. This is also mentioned in the legislative consultation. For that reason, our request is to hold this motion until that letter arrives. So the request here is to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u281	Mr Omtzigt is moving. It's about the motion in part No. 79.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u282	It's been a month. The reason I have tabled that motion is because I really think it should be done. A number of people called the municipalities. The municipalities don't know what to do. They're not doing anything. These parents have been rattling around for a month since it got out. So we need that hotline. The rest is pretty much in line with what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u283	Then I'm gonna have to discourage this motion. I suggest that there be a letter... sorry, I have to say, that letter is coming. That's the story. This month there will be a letter from the Minister for Legal Protection. The request is to hold the motion, but if you do not want to wait for it, then we must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u284	I hope for a substantive reason why it should be discouraged. We've been at it for a month now. We're asking for a hotline. I don't think that's too little. There are parents who are pretty desperate. They went to the city. We have even had the example of a parent who has been said: you cannot be in the news, because then you will not get in touch with your children at all. There's no response to that. We've sent out those signals. Now it's waiting for these parents again. I am really asking for the reason why the things we are asking for in this motion, which are not over the top, cannot be done. There aren't even deadlines. We do understand that everything can't be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u285	What I could do, if Mr Omtzigt appreciates, is to ask the Minister for Legal Protection, who is not taking part in the debate tonight, to send a short letter to the vote with the annotation on this motion. The second motion also belongs to Mr Omtzigt. It's about the court ruling and its publication. I would like to say a few words about this. The question is whether the number of judgments published can be increased. The Court of Justice, which is responsible for this, is an independent board. However, a plan is being worked out, and I got it from the JenV Ministry, which is working on this, to see if we could publish more sentences. The proposal is to hold this motion in that context. So that is the second request to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u286	I understand the request. I had already announced that this motion is somewhat strange, because it is not 100% the policy area of this Secretary of State. But do I get any more information on what's possible? What exactly does the government propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u287	I can also ask the Minister for Legal Protection to send you a message about this. Then he can tell us a little bit more about what the plans are with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u288	I'd love to. I'd like to hear what the possibilities are. I'd like to hold this motion. We don't have to do this till tomorrow. There's less glowing rush behind this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u289	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (35927, No. 80). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u290	Then we're gonna listen to Secretary of State File Letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u291	Mr. Chairman. I do not have so many outstanding questions and a huge number of amendments and motions. I will also take with me the motions and amendments on the subject of Mrs Ollongren. Mrs Maatoug asked about the AMvB's in the process. That was about the delegation clause. I promised I would come back to that and I will do so in the letter tomorrow. I don't know if I mentioned a time for that letter. I am looking at Mr Omtzigt, because he specifically asked for it. We'll make sure that letter's there for lunch. In any case before the votes, I say to Mr Nijboer. We are not doing that one minute before the vote, but a little further before that, so that you can still look at it. Mr. Chairman. We would like to draw up the AMvBs in close cooperation with the Chamber. I am thinking of a process in which we clearly identify the problem. I just gave the example of the FSV, the Fraud Signaling Provision. That's what we're doing right now. The first step is to have a debate on this on 9 December. Then I will outline the outline of the arrangement in a letter to your Chamber. I offer a technical briefing. It is up to the Chamber to plan it or not, but I think that in most cases the Chamber will say yes to it. We are working in parallel on the legal elaboration of the AMvB, which we submit to your Chamber. That's how the trial will be. I'll write that out again tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u292	I still have a bit of a problem with the Council of State's criticism of the law, which is quite fundamental. We have had a separate treatment under the same kind of law, which sees the surcharges. Isn't that an idea for this law, too? He doesn't need to be treated from front to back, because we've already done a part of it, but can't we treat him at the same time? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I'm not kicking the brakes at all, but then we can take it easy in the next few weeks. That is my preference, because I simply doubt whether I should vote for or against tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u293	We're doing the whole debate this way, so that's how we're gonna do it. I thought a legislative consultation was already planned with Mrs Van Huffelen. Perhaps we should add this to the same legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u294	That would help me a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u295	I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u296	I just need to see if everyone agrees. That means that we are not going to vote on this law tomorrow either. I note that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u297	I would point out, however, that this law, in comparison with the other law, follows a steady process. He is linked to the WHO on the other law of Mrs Van Huffelen, which is indeed similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u298	So we are not going to vote tomorrow on the Delegation Provisions Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u299	I owed Mrs Maatoug another answer. She said: I heard the Secretary of State on 1 July 2019 versus 2017. Mrs Maatoug had asked a number of specific questions, and I still owe her an answer to them, so I am going to say this briefly. Ms Maatoug proposed to join the date of 1 January 2017. From that date, data will be automatically exchanged between European countries. For this date, the taxpayer was not able to take sufficient account of the consequences of this bill, as the rules were not yet foreseeable. I had a mini-debate with Mr Alkaya on that. The same applies to Mrs Maatoug's proposal to align with the general period of retention. In fact, the general deadline currently in force does not say anything about the foreseeability of the consequences. Ms Maatoug also proposed a 2015 date, the date on which the results of the BEPS report were presented. I believe that this is the same as for the 2017 date, which Mr Alkaya mentioned. Therefore, for cases prior to 1 July 2019, taxable persons could not take sufficient account of this. I would like to repeat once again what I have said in detail in the debates, namely that the Council of State proposed in its opinion that it should join an even later date than we do now, namely 4 March 2021. The Council of State considered that logical. It is then about the start of the internet consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u300	I thank the Secretary of State. In the debate with my colleague from the SP, it was about whether you could foresee this or not. The honourable Member made it quite clear that this is also a political weighting. How do we do this? I said it myself in my input. We can make a choice now. The question is whether we allow the transitional right, with the old behavior that we no longer wanted to reward, with depreciation on intellectual property, to continue for another 20, 30 years. I understand the argument by step, but if I take those things together, I can see that from 2015 you can make an assessment of the change. Then you know that legislation is coming. In every ruling we also say neatly: pay attention, the legislation can change. It is about the overall package, with the behaviour we have seen, where companies have not kept to the tax morale properly. Let me add that, because that changes our weighting a little. In that total package you could see it coming and do you think it is fair to just ask companies to contribute to the general pot as everyone should? For us, the weighting is very clear: no transitional right. I don't get this part from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u301	I understand that Mrs Maatoug makes a different weighting, but I do not understand that she cannot follow my weighting. Because the weighting that I made was based on the reasoning "You can find what you want," but that is of course up to Mrs Maatoug herself "that as of 1 July 2019 we have made clear what can and can't be done within the framework of the new ruling practice." We thought that was a logical point of reference. In doing so, we are repeating the debate of just now, but then it is just what makes you weigh the hardest. I say then, given my responsibility and given the advice of the Council of State, take that date that we now have in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u302	Very briefly, in future. I find this difficult, even given the debate we are having today. There are companies, I do not like to mention them, because I do not think that is proper, like Uber, who do not comply with labour law legislation. The judge's ruling they're throwing away. They're constantly avoiding and shifting, constantly looking up all the loopholes of the law. We'll say, "Change that." And what we can do now, the choice we can make this year, is that we no longer reward it. But now it is said that you have made a mistake in the past and you may continue that mistake for another 20 years, because we want to be so good. And I was still so proud of this Secretary of State, because he said: we are finally going to do this differently in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u303	I didn't hear another question. I have heard this exclamation from Mrs Maatoug to my regret, but I am still holding on to this date. In the first term, I promised Mr Omtzigt that he would return to the planning of the internet consultation on the measures against dividend stripping. In the first term, I said that I would send a letter and investigate the extent of the problem. As I have already indicated, such an investigation is difficult, but we're just going to try. It's complicated to get data on that. I'll investigate what's possible there, and I'll send a letter to your room in a few weeks. I would like to come back to the planning of the internet consultation. We'll publish it at the end of the year. Then the response time is at least four weeks. Then we can work on a proposal. I am actually prepared to say a little more towards Chamber when I have the reactions from that Internet consultation. Mr Hammelburg asked if we could look at different groups of taxpayers in the ibo capital survey. The answer is: yes, we are happy to do so. Actually, it's kind of on the job, but we'll do that. Mr Aartsen asked about the timetable of the letter of amendment to the share option scheme bill. I have to answer that a little longer, because that is an important subject of the debate. What we need to do is to say this to Mr Aartsen, but I am actually saying it to the whole Chamber....................................................................................................................................................................... Together with the IRS, we need to shape that. We're gonna try to do that as soon as possible. We have to go to Brussels. I don't think there's a problem there, but I can't predict how long it's gonna take, because that's not up to me. Then there must be an execution test. I will try to keep that execution test running as much as possible in parallel with those other processes. Normally the Tax Administration does not, but given the importance of this I will try to do so. Then I'll ask the Council of State for urgent advice. That brought me around about carnival, I say to Mr Aartsen. Whether carnival goes on or off, but next year around carnival time I'll give you a surprise. Then there's Article 8bd of the bill. If Mr Aartsen does not mind, I will return to that in writing tomorrow in that letter. That's a little too technical for the moment. Do I include in the outline note the current situation with the flat-rate distribution? The answer is yes. Then I am going to surprise Mr Van Raan with judgments on motions, and then he is totally happy with all answers to non-asked questions, and vice versa. If you don't mind, I'm going to the huge zipper amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u304	Mr. Van Raan is about to leave the building whistling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u305	I think so, too. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of them. I'm going through it at a rapid rate, also because we're sending a letter tomorrow. Mr Stoffer's motion... I keep messing with those numbers, but I think it's the motion in part no. 18 is. Oh, sorry, amendment, I mean. You're right, Mr. Nijboer. It's that in part No. 18, if I'm not mistaken. That is the amendment on phasing out the AHK and reducing the IACK. That's really in the category of dissuaded. Before this happens, we're a little too missionary. Mr Alkaya's amendment to item No. 25 on raising the bank's tax by 1.5 billion, I advise against it for the same reason. I also think that this is a good thing. We need to be careful. There was a specific reasoning under the introduction of the banking tax. We must be careful not to raise it just because we want to do so. Banks also operate in an international playing field. The amendment on increasing the Vpb tariff to 36% by Mr Alkaya should be discouraged. The argument will seem familiar to you. Then I have an amendment on a horizon for the homework allowance. I don't think I mentioned it in the debate. I'm sorry, I'm just gonna hold on a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u306	However, I would like to say a few words about my amendment. In itself, I understand that. I am, of course, very sorry, but I understand that in the next amendment, the Secretary of State will also find something in substance. Do I understand that he appreciates my content, but does he have to wait until the cabinet has the general status again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u307	Then I am tempted to say something about it because I like banks and banking taxes, and now this is the result. Let me say something about the substance. I know that this has Mr Stoffer's attention. We have often talked about carrying capacity and the Commission's weight. Mr Stoffer also knows that this is about the focal point of political opinion. What do you think is the most important thing, the decisiveness or the participation? Didn't we overly increase the employment discount and the IACK? Mr Stoffer thinks so. Others say that this has not yet been enough. So it's in that focal point, and with that it really doesn't fit a missionary cabinet. That is not to say that Mr Stoffer also knows that I cannot follow his arguments as to capacity and his point of view. If Mr. Stoffer wants to hear that... or well, he knows that from me. I've said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u308	Of course this was also meant to be a bit funny, but it did have a serious undertone. I have, of course, also brought it up in the context of the ruling by a majority of the Chamber that we really need to take steps in this area. I understand that this is a difficult time. We do not need to continue the debate on this right now, but I hope that the Secretary of State will take that weighting from the Chamber when a cabinet is formed and so on. I assume that it will be taken away anyway, but I hope that it will be somewhat positive. All that for the families in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u309	Mr. Chairman. I am in favour of Amendment No 2. 28 by Grinwis and Van Dijk. Judgment Room. The amendment contains a horizon for the homework allowance. If nothing happens, it will expire by 2025. The amendment on raising the VPB rate and the bank tax rate is not recommended. That is the Nijboer/Maatoug amendment in part No. 35. That's the same thing again. These are all amendments with huge slides, in this case from 25.8% to 30%. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u310	I think I still miss an appreciation of the Grinwis/Van Dijk amendment to item No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u311	Judgment Room. Thank you very much. The amendment in part No. 35 is not recommended. The amendment in part No. 36 of Maatoug, Nijboer, Gündoğan, Azarkan and Omtzigt I must advise against. That's about abolishing the purchasing facility. Purchase of shares is part of dividend policy of stock exchange funds. This isn't wise, so I have to advise against it. Then there is the amendment to item No. 37 of Maatoug, Alkaya, Nijboer, Gündoğan, Azarkan and Omtzigt. This aims to keep the limit for the low rate of corporation tax at the old level. That is what we discussed in the debate. I'd advise against that. Then there is the amendment to item No. 38 by Mrs Maatoug. That's the anti-fragmentation measure. I would advise against this amendment. That is what I said in the debate. I also promised in the debate that, as a result of the monitoring exercise in the course of next year, I will certainly see whether we should do something about it. I don't know if it's past this line. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 40 on the abolition of the increased grant exemption for the home of EUR 105.302, the so-called jubelton, I must advise against. There is now one: the amendment to item No. 41 on tightening up the refinery exemption. Oh, I'd already sold it to Mr. Van Raan, I think. I thought I gave that judgment room. It says here "dissuade," but it was judgment room. Wrong. I already did this amendment. I hear Mr. Aartsen asking what the verdict on the previous amendment was. That was Judgment Room. I had already given that amendment judgment Chamber once, but the administration wasn't okay. The amendment in part No. Forty-two by Mr Van Raan on the CO levy industry on biomass, I recommend. The amendment in part No. 43 by Mr Van Raan on the abolition of the exemption for the dual use of coal, I recommend. The amendment in part No. 44 by Mr Van Raan, too, on the abolition of the refund scheme for energy-intensive companies in the covenant, I would like to give a ruling on Chamber. The amendment in part No. Mr Van Raan (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Raan on his excellent report. The amendment in part No. Mr Van Raan (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment in part No. 47 by Mr Van Raan on the abolition of the exemption for natural gas consumption for electricity generation, I recommend. Then I am in favour of increasing tobacco duty. This amendment is also in the category: there is something to be said for it, but I cannot now give it a ruling Chamber. I should like to make this point. Forty-nine by Mrs Gündoğan. I'm gonna stop. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u312	Thank you for the appreciation of the Court's opinion on the amendments mentioned by the Secretary of State. As much as I would like to know why he is giving that judgment to the Chamber, I would also like to know why he is dissuading amendments. You can do that in a letter or what he's gonna let you know tomorrow. These are all amendments that arise from the building block note of the Ministry itself. It is all amendments that can be made. They are not regulated by European legislation or otherwise. They're just dissuaded, I find a little skinny. Thanks again for the Court's opinion on the other amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u313	I'm trying to keep pace with the debate. I will explain it in the letter, but I will give you one example. The abolition of the exemption for the use of natural gas for electricity generation may be technical, but this poses risks to the security of supply of electricity in the Netherlands. This is what I was afraid of: a reaction. That's what you're gonna get.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u314	That reason is not correct, because the security of supply is not in danger. It may be a little more expensive. Other market players may be jumping on it. It may be that sustainability is accelerating. But if security of supply were to be compromised by amendments from the Party for Animals, we would not, of course, be submitting them. That argument is therefore not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u315	I do not want to have a huge debate on this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u316	I shall continue with the amendment to item No. 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u317	Mrs. Maatoug just a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u318	I would like some clarification. My colleague's questions raise questions. I was just wondering... We're in a missionary period. We have a number of amendments. For example, there is one about the jubilee of me and a number of colleagues. That amendment is feasible and possible. That's from the reports. We're not gonna get a verdict on that, Room. But that's a political weighting, right? The outgoing cabinet says to the missionary chamber that it is a bad political idea because they are forming. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u319	This is no longer about Mr Van Raan's amendment, but about the other amendments. We're gonna jump back in. The short answer is as follows. Mrs Maatoug is now making a somewhat brief summary of what I said earlier. They are very far-reaching proposals. If the Court has a different opinion on this matter, the Court must give a different opinion on it. You're sitting here with the outgoing Secretary of State of this cabinet. This is the judgment of this cabinet. I can't make it any simpler. Then we have Mrs Maatoug's amendment on taxation for foreign investors in real estate. We've had a long discussion about the VBI. I have already advised against it in the debates, but I have said that I am going to study it further. We talked about that. For the administration of Mr Aartsen: the amendment to item No. 50 is not recommended. Then I'll be with Mr. Alkaya. Abolition of the Innovation Box seems a bad idea. I agree with the content of this. The Innovation Box is really important. You can talk about the fare. I thought my own party in the election program had a higher rate. Mr Hammelburg knows exactly that. I'm really against abolishing the Innovation Box. When it comes to raising the rate, I would advise against the amendment on another point, namely the point we were talking about earlier with Mrs Maatoug. That brings me to the Van Raan amendment to point No. 53 on the flight tax, a favorite of mine. Even though it's a favorite of mine: differentiation of the flight tax is really not such a good idea. This makes the implementation much more difficult. So I'm going to discourage this amendment. I do not know why I suddenly come to Amendment No Nijboer/Maatoug in part No. 11 jump, because it was at the beginning of the debate, but that amendment on the taxation of rental income in box 1 I advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u320	I understand. One amendment is a little bigger than the other. I think this is the prince-bernhard tax, if I can follow it as fast as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u321	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u322	I have asked for a little more clarification and explanation than just 'the number is lower than the other' and 'unadvised'. Because there really is a thought behind this, namely that real estate investors take over cities, rent revenues are undertaxed and starters hardly get in the way. There has been no appreciation of that proposal throughout the debate. I asked if I could get it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u323	I will give a more detailed appreciation in the letter tomorrow with Mrs Ollongren. Here's what I can say. It says here: irresponsible. I think that's a rather harsh term. The question is whether you are doing something like this by amendment, I would just like to say to Mr Nijboer. I also wonder if he has considered that there are other ways, in other respects in the tax system, to do something about this. I will argue that in greater detail tomorrow, because I understand his question. He's entitled to it, too. But this is what the cabinet thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u324	As a Member of Parliament, you can make an initiative law or an amendment. It's our co-legislative job to do that, if you really see a miscarriage or want to change something. It also raises money, 123 million, due and due. I really think that is an improvement in the tax system. I'd like to know exactly what's wrong with it. We have a lot of work to do to make this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u325	I'm being briefly summarized again. I didn't say it wasn't right, but that there are other options and that I'm a bit of a rash... I'm just looking for the Dutch word, Mr. Chairman. I think this is a very fast way to bring this in, while I can follow the idea in itself. But we'll write it down more neatly. I'm not neat enough in my words, so I'll write it down more neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u326	I am not going to have a debate on this, but in that letter tomorrow, if you are going to accept the amendment, will you also indicate the consequences if we do so in box 1, so for example what will happen with box 2?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u327	Yes. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the amendment to item No. 8 of Alkaya. I think that's been stopped. That's about the cap in share option rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u328	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u329	Then I've got another number right here. 8. That's weird. It's probably about another law? Yes. That amendment is about a heavier procedure and belongs to Mrs Van Dijk. I have already said it in the debate: Judgement Chamber. Mr Grinwis and Mr Hammelburg asked for an evaluation of the delegation clause. That amendment is automatically retained, I think, because it passes through the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u330	That makes sense, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u331	This is what I mentioned in the debate. The amendment in part No. 7 (35931) by Mr Idsinga on the ATAD 2, the open command company is judged Chamber. That closes another leak. The amendment in part No. 7 (35933) by Mrs Maatoug is about that date. I think we've debated this for the longest time. It will not be surprising that I do not recommend this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 8 by Mrs Maatoug. That's about 0% of the mismatch. I indicated in the debate that I think it is unwise, because we are going to deal with this through Pillar 2 OECD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u332	About the 2017 one, this time less faint and short. We have had a rather extensive debate. We've seen what can and can't be done. Just so we understand each other well, also for the weighting of colleagues: it is possible. It's about weighing whether you like it or not. I had a different weighting and so did the colleague of the SP. That is the choice that lies before the political groups. But it's possible. In that sense, the Court can always have that judgment. There's no technical reason to do that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u333	Are you talking about the amendment to item No. Eight? Or are you talking about the amendment to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u334	I think it's the last one. I don't have the accounting as sharp as Mr. Aartsen. It's about transitional rights, so 2017-2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u335	Yeah, that's a little back. I think that the Council of State is going to judge that destructively, although we are not asking for a new judgment. That's all it is. You ask: can it be technically? I'm gonna take a look at the official support. It is explicitly asked here whether that date can be technically done in 2017. Otherwise, we will have to deal with this in the letter tomorrow. We will. But I think the answer is yes. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 10, by Mrs Maatoug, on the Saar anti-abuse clause. I'm gonna have to advise against that. The argument for this is that, in my view, we are dealing with this through international agreements. Then I have the amendment to item No. 11 by Mrs Maatoug on the same proposal for a merger of assets. That's what I'm judging, Room. In short, that amendment refers to foreign companies merging or splitting with a company established in the Netherlands. This extends the scope of the legislative proposal. This amendment creates a lower limit for cases that are not currently affected by the accompanying measure. This amendment therefore prevents the creation of a double non-taxation in the case of a merger or division. Judgment Room. Mr. Chairman. Then I have the amendment to item No. 31 (35927) by Mrs Beckerman and Mr Alkaya on the abolition of corporation tax on services of general economic interest. That's a file with a very long beard. I wouldn't recommend that. I'll write it again tomorrow, but I think everyone will recognize why we can't just do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u336	I have a check question. The Secretary of State gave the amendment in part No. 41 (35927) Court of Justice judgment, but I honestly think he has the amendment to item No. Forty-four. In the first place, he referred to the amendment to item No. 44. It would be nice if he also had the amendment to item No. 41 Judgment of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of First Instance of the Court of Justice of the Court of First Instance of the Then the flag goes off. Then we're gonna name a day after him, the File Letter Day. But I still want to give him the chance to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u337	And that at the expense of the Party for the Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u338	The prize for the fairest politician tonight goes to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u339	Let's leave it at that, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u340	It was the amendment in part No. 44 and not in part No. 41. You're right. Thank you for this correction. Mr. Aartsen already wanted to get up and ask how in God's name I could give that Chamber judgment. The amendment in part No. 48 by Mr Nijboer and Mrs Maatoug in the legislative proposal on housing, on increasing the Vpb, we do not recommend for the well-known reason. The amendment in part No. 13 (35932) on the landlord levy and WOZ is not recommended. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has made a clear statement on this matter. I say to Mr Nijboer that in the letter, together with Minister Ollongren, I will correctly state why. Then there is the amendment to item No. 12 (35932) by Beckerman, Alkaya, Nijboer and Bromet with which the landlord levy is brought to zero. I'd advise against that. I am therefore through the amendments. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions. This can be done faster than the amendments, I think. First, the motion in part No. 54 by Mulder and Kops. Dissuade. I think Mr Mulder would have expected that, too. Then the motion to part No. Mr Mulder and Mr Wilders. It calls on the government to reduce excise duties on petrol. Dissuade. In the motion in part No. 56 the government is asked to stop subsidies on electric transport. Dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 57 by Mr Mulder, abolishing the 30% regime for expats. We advise against that in this form. Why do I say "in this form"? Because this cabinet has already narrowed down the 30% rule. The way it is now, we like it as a missionary cabinet. Then the motion to part No. 58 by Mrs Beckerman aimed at an investigation into lowering the base rent. This motion I give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 59 by Mrs Beckerman, with whom the rents should be frozen, we advise against. In the motion in part No. Mrs Beckerman's 60th report states that the one-off rent reduction Act can be very useful for people experiencing an income drop. The government is asked to turn this law into a permanent law. That's gonna get the same reaction as the rent freeze. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 61 by Mrs Beckerman is in the same category as the motion in part No. 57. It is requested to make the rent allowance also accessible for rents above the liberalisation limit. We dissuade the motion. Then the motion to part No. 62 by Mr Alkaya. It calls on the Cabinet to resolve losses of revenue due to the increasing use of electric cars with additional burdens on those same people. Appreciation is: dissuade. We believe that the promotion of electric transport, although expensive, contributes to climate objectives. Then there is Mr Hammelburg's motion on item No. 63: The government must report on the load on different types of assets. I think I have already addressed this in the reply. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u341	We discussed it extensively in the WHO. The previous Tax Plan adopted a good motion by colleagues Snels and Van Weyenberg, but we did not see the result in the current Tax Plan. It is a call to look at that again, as was the commitment made by the WHO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u342	I will. You don't run the risk of not seeing it again, because it's just in the ibo. Then the motion to part No. 64 by Mr Hammelburg and Mr Grinwis with a request to monitor whether there is a structure. I've already made a commitment to that, so judge Chamber. The request to map the adaptation of national legislation in the event of an agreement on a minimum profit tax, expressed in the motion in part No. 65, I'm judging Room. Then the motion to part No. 66 on the Pen Parade: a particularly positive opinion of the Chamber. I leave the judgment to the Chamber with special advice. We're gonna do it and we're gonna try to record it in the ibo. The Van Dijk motion in part No. 67 on ICT at the Tax Administration. Judgment Room. In fact, I had already said that in the debate. The Van Dijk/Hammelburg motion in part No. 68 calls on the Government to indicate, in the appreciation of motions and amendments, their impact on the complexity of the legislation and its impact on implementation. I'd love to, so judge Room. It can't always be, but we're gonna try. The motion in part No. 69 of Maatoug and Nijboer aim to address tax avoidance as effectively as possible. That's support for government policy. Judgment Room. This is what we want. It is about implementing the international agreements The motion in part No. Mrs Maatoug's 70 on the effective approach to tax avoidance should be discouraged. Which one is this again? I am now confused, because this motion is very similar to an amendment on zero taxation. At least I'm not gonna recommend this one. It has the same risk, namely that it is ahead of Pillar 2. It's actually unnecessary. For Mr Aartsen in particular, I say: that is the motion in part No. 70.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u343	We were already allowed to eat from the chairman, so I have energy again, I say to my colleagues. The food was delicious, by the way. Indeed, this motion is very similar to the amendment, because we have listened carefully to the opinion and the debate. I also mean the motion in such a way that it can very well coincide with pillar 2. Then it sounds like cabinet policy and I don't understand why he doesn't get judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u344	I read the operative part of the motion in part No. 70 is just as precise and it says 'to come up with additional legislation', but we do not intend to do so. The problem is, there could be a temporary hole. It seems that you want to put additional legislation into that temporary gap, and I said that I do not think that is appropriate for the purposes of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u345	Well, then I have one more question. As we have understood the answer so far, this is going to come in Pillar 2 and the legislation will come in. It's more of a timing issue. I would like to make that even clearer in the operative part. Then it can still get judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u346	This is starting to be a fish market. If Mrs Maatoug tries to point out with this motion that she would like international legislation to be implemented as soon as possible so that it can be combated, the Court of Justice is the judge. But that is not what the operative part says, because it says 'additional legislation with which'. The word "supplementary" brings me to my conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u347	Thank you for the clarification. We're gonna take a look at the motion and file it differently. I also understand that gaps remain, even after the great work internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u348	The Secretary of State is clear in his judgment, I think. Mr. Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u349	That was indeed my question to Mrs Maatoug. I do not know how to table an amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u350	In this form dissuade, but if Mrs. Maatog... Sorry. If Mrs Maatoug... changed her name during the debate..........................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u351	Yeah, but we're gonna vote on all this tomorrow. Then it'll be night work, I'm afraid. In the fish market way, we can't get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u352	It's getting complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u353	I'll keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u354	At the request of Mrs Maatoug, I propose her motion (35927, No. 70). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u355	Pragmatiek helps, Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 71 by Mr Grinwis and Mrs Inge van Dijk on the annual review of the estimates of tax revenue shortly before the Millions Note: Court of Auditors opinion. Then the motion-Van Raan c.s. in piece No. 72 about integrating into the Tax Plan of the Monitor Brede Prosperity and the KEV: please judge Chamber, but this takes time. I think the Minister discussed this during the General Financial Reviews. The motion in part No. 73 by Mr Van Raan and Mrs Maatoug I must advise against. The motion proposes that the amount of 81 million earmarked to compensate companies for the costs they have to incur within the EU ETS system should be used to combat energy poverty. This amount is in the EZK budget and is intended for companies, so this proposal is starting to get a little wild. I'm dissuading the motion. Also the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The motion calls for an annual assessment of the associated CO reduction in the tax plan and for it to be linked to the achievement of the climate targets. Judge Room, then. Then the small fields, as it is so beautifully called in Economics terms. These are important for the security of supply of natural gas. That is what Mr Van Raan is going to fight now, I think. This is the motion in part No. 75 and I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u356	Mr Van Raan, brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u357	That is quite special, because this investment deduction was created by a outgoing cabinet. Then there have been all kinds of calls to stop drilling for new gas fields. There has also been another COP26 pledge not to do so. You can at least drop the investment discount. Again, I do not understand the Secretary of State's unwillingness to participate in the reduction of fossil subsidies. He said himself he's for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u358	Life is made up of considerations. The same applies to export credit insurance. That is where the balance has finally fallen in one direction. This is where she falls the other way. This is because security of supply is also considered important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u359	Then the motion to part No. 76. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's not go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u360	The Secretary of State is doing it again. He says the security of supply is in danger. That's just not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u361	Okay. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u362	I would therefore ask him either to stop saying that or to clarify how security of supply is at risk. I can learn from that. Then I shall no longer table these motions and amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u363	Mr Van Raan seduces me now. He will receive in the letter tomorrow an extensive text on why security of supply is threatened by this motion. I advise the motion to bring the ornamental crop back below 21%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u364	That's the motion in part No. 76.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u365	The motion in part No. Mr Stoffer's 77th report is going to be included in the energy package. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. We've really taken a good look at that and we're sticking to what it is. That's what I'm telling you. Mr. Chairman. Then I have the motion in part no. Mr Stoffer (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Judgment Room. LNV has been investigating this. I'll be happy to carry out this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u366	Thank you for that last appreciation. On the first one, I have a question. It's been open since 2023, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u367	Let's see. What motion are you talking about? I'm sorry, I've lost my touch. Ah, I didn't read right. Sorry, I'm gonna go read it again. Yeah, it's open. Sorry, I thought this was about the occasional package. I'm confused by the large amount of motions. This is about the structural package. I'm gonna have to explain it to you. In the Hermans motion there was a distribution of the 500 million. With regard to the structural package that remains and the 300 million remaining, the starting point is, in principle, that the distribution is the same as in the Hermans motion. I can't quite judge whether this motion does. We had the impression she wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u368	There has also been a motion by Mr Grinwis/Stoffer, which made another adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u369	At this late hour, even though it's only 8:00 p.m., that's complicated. That is a change in the occasional package. It's been shoved in. In doing so, Mr Grinwis' reasoning was exactly the same, and I thought myself, namely that we should stay close to the original distribution of Hermans. The Cabinet would like that, too. I think I should discourage the motion, because you indicate a different division here than the cabinet originally intended in the Hermans motion. That's the exact appreciation. With that, I must discourage the motion. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mr Omtzigt's last two motions. The first, the motion in part No. 81, it's about the state's attorney. I have to refer to JenV's colleague. The Tax Administration uses the framework contract. I do not have the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u370	It just seems amusing. Someone's in court. He's done two years of FIOD investigation and fraud for 10 million, and then the state is assisted by the state's attorney. The lawyer then says: I understand you very well; we also suffer a great deal from this. Can you imagine that? You must laugh now, but this is to cry, isn't it? You'll be a fool if you hire this country's attorney for one more day. He lied in court on the supplement cases. I'm joking about it right now, but this just can't be. We're not all crazy here, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u371	Am I supposed to answer now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u372	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u373	That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u374	Or should I do what Mr Omtzig wants? I'm getting mad right now. You yourself use the word "enjoyable." You're sketching an image. I found that amusing. Then you shouldn't accuse me of laughing wrongly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u375	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u376	Pels Rijcken is now the national attorney and the window contract is with JenV. If Mr Omtzigt has any objection to that, he must... I give the motion as a verdict 'dissuade' and I will pass on Mr Grapperhaus's emotion. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to proceed to the motion in part No. 82?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u377	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u378	The motion in part No. 82 on the BOR also belongs to Mr Omtzigt. I'm going to dissuade it, but I said in the debate that I am the reasoning behind the BOR... I have tried to give a nuanced answer to the questions about the BOR. That nuanced answer is, I say to Mr Omtzigt: yes, we think there is abuse at the BOR. I cannot entirely judge this case now, because I need to look more closely at it, but we have already seen in the building blocks that there were indications of abuse. I do not know exactly which of the MPs said it, but I think Mr Stoffer said about the BOR that there is something there to make it easier to do in terms of enlargement. So I think this motion is moving too fast, but if Mr Omtzigt agrees, I would like to take his idea, which is in this one, into the evaluation. He'll be in the Chamber at the beginning of the year anyway. I'm just making sure I look at the official support, but I thought it was "the beginning of the year." Mr Omtzigt may also arrest her, but in this form I would advise her not to do so, because I am not going to take care of it now. But there will be an evaluation and I could take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u379	It's being advised now, but it just seems so undesirable to me that we need to get rid of this. So I'm maintaining this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u380	Then the motion has been dissuaded. Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u381	I have a question not so much for this Secretary of State but for the other Secretary of State. This is because it concerns the motion in part No. 79.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u382	You want to ask me about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u383	It concerns the substantive appreciation. Will it or will not be in the letter tomorrow or will we only receive a procedural appreciation of the Omtzigt c.s motion tomorrow??
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u384	The Secretary of State will ask whether that appreciation can be given tomorrow before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u385	That's cat in the bag. Secretary of State, if you want to say anything, you have to hold him down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u386	I'm sorry. I'm gonna hold it down for a second. I have to ask the Minister for Legal Affairs. So I'm gonna ask him to say something about this motion by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u387	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u388	Then there is the request for real substance on the motion, so that we can also make a substantive weighting. Otherwise, given the votes, it will be very complicated. But then I'll take a look at my colleague again. Therefore, through you, Secretary of State, I ask the Minister for Legal Protection to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u389	A few more officials are going to work very hard tonight, I'm afraid. If not all night! Mr Omtzigt is still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u390	A number of officials have indeed worked very hard in recent days for this Tax Plan. I have one general question on the letter of amendment. Is there anything ready now? Can we expect anything? Are we gonna get any information or are we gonna get mugged?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u391	I apologize to Mr Omtzigt. He did ask that question. The answer is, no, there's nothing ready, at least not that I know of. But I'm going to outline the process in case anything should be ready. Mr Omtzigt knows as well as I do, but the votes on the Tax Plan will take place in the First Chamber, I say, memorized, on 14 December. Mr Omtzig outlined the scenario that a new cabinet would like to make changes. That should be done after tomorrow's vote with a novella, and that should be done again between tomorrow and the 14th December. It needs to be treated here before he goes to the First Chamber. Finally, I may be able to reassure him even more by saying that the only changes that are still possible are, moreover, only parameter changes. That is the answer to that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u392	Clear. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u393	Mr. Chairman. Can I say something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u394	It may be your last time here in this period. If we also take the General Financial Reviews, it is the conclusion of a lot of figures. So if you need a beautiful foundative endword, in this case!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u395	In fact, it is not entirely my thing, but I would like to start by thanking the officials working on this day and night. Secondly, I would like to thank the Chamber. Because in the series of debates I have had with the Chamber over the last two years, it is in the top three...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u396	...of the five tax plans!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u397	Oh, no, four.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u398	You're here alone with the Tax Plan, but I come here often.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u399	No, no, no, Mr. Chairman. You're here alone with the Tax Plan, but I come here often. I have come here more often over the past few months and this has been a very pleasant debate. I was particularly pleased that I was able to make both Mr Van Raan and Mr Mulder a commitment which they were happy with. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u400	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for their presence and for answering today's questions and for their hard work over the last few months or so. years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-10-tweedekamer-7.u401	We shall vote tomorrow on the six remaining legislative proposals plus the amendments and the motions. That happens after lunch, so at the beginning of the afternoon meeting. So far. I shall suspend, no, the sitting of 10 November 2021.
