ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the vote on the election of the President of the Chamber. The vote will take place in accordance with Rules 8.31 to 8.36 of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I shall appoint Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr El Yassini, Mr Westerveld and Mr Stoffer. I would ask Mrs Agnes Mulder to act as president of the polling station. The voters have now taken their seats in the middle of the room, as you can all see. The votes take place in three groups of 50, as you are used to in the roll-call votes since we were dealing with the coronavirus in the Netherlands. The result will be announced at the end of a ballot. Where more than one ballot is required, the same procedure shall apply. I ask the messengers to hand out the ballot papers. You are supposed to write one name on the ballot paper. Notes with multiple names or with names of non-members of this Chamber and blank notes are invalid and do not count for the calculation of the number of votes needed to obtain the absolute majority. I ask the Registrar of each Member to read the name. Members should respond to that call by standing up and going to the polling station, where the ballot paper can be deposited in the appropriate bus. The Registrar shall take sufficient time between the reading of the names to ensure sufficient distance between members. In connection with corona.. I already get questions about... there is a lovely, nice plastic bottle for you. You need to use that before you take the note to the ballot box. For those who already had it half in their bag: you have to leave it, because then people can use it again after you. They're being disinfected, those bottles. Really! Each member shall personally take the ballot paper to the voters. Only my ballot note and our colleague De Kort's ballot note will be brought by the Chamberkeeper to the voters. The voters themselves will vote at the end of the third group. I would ask Members to join the polling station with the predecessor and not to press for it. The votes must also be verified. Furthermore, it is of course appreciated that the members do not speak with each other, but simply take their place again. I would therefore ask you not to go through the Chamber or leave the Chamber during the votes. Finally. The first ballot is a free round. This means that Members may vote on all Members. I would ask the Registrar to begin reading the names.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that the groups can change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	The next item is the vote on the election of the President of the Chamber. That vote shall take place in accordance with Rules 8.31 to 8.36 of the Rules of Procedure. I have just appointed Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr El Yassini, Mr Westerveld and Mr Stoffer as members of the polling committee. I asked Mrs Agnes Mulder to act as president of the polling station. Voting shall take place in three groups of 50 members, as shall be the case in the case of roll-call votes. The result will be announced at the end of the ballot. Where more than one ballot is required, the same procedure shall apply. So my guess is it's gonna be a while. I ask the messengers to hand out the ballot papers. You're supposed to write one name on the ballot. Multiple-named notes, notes with names of non-members of this Chamber and blank notes are invalid. These do not count in the calculation of the number of votes needed to obtain an absolute majority. I ask the Registrar to read out the name of each member. Members should respond to that call by standing up and going to the polling station, where the ballot paper can be deposited in the appropriate bus. The Registrar shall endeavour to take sufficient time between the reading of the names in order to ensure sufficient distance between members. You're gonna wonder what those plastic bottles are doing in front of you. That's to disinfect your hands before you make the corridor to the ballot box. For those who thought "beautiful, free, I'll take it": leave it alone. Because the groups after you are going to use it again. So those bottles themselves are disinfected; if you follow them. Each member will therefore personally take the ballot paper to the voters. This does not apply only to my own note and to our colleague De Kort's ballot paper. They'll pick up the accountants themselves and take them to the voters. The voters themselves will vote at the end of the third group of members. I would ask Members to join your predecessor in the polling station and not to press for it. The voices also need to be verified, so we're gonna take it easy. It is also appreciated that Members do not speak with each other and that they also take their place quickly. I therefore ask you not to go through the Chamber, to high-five or to leave the Chamber during the votes. The first ballot is a free round. This means that Members may cast their votes on all Members. I would ask the Registrar to begin reading the names.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you. I shall now suspend for a few moments, so that the next group can enter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	The next item is the vote on the election of the President. The vote will take place in accordance with Rules 8.31 to 8.36 of the Rules of Procedure. I have just appointed the members of the polling bureau none other than Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr El Yassini, Mr Westerveld and Mr Stoffer. And Mrs. Agnes Mulder is also president of the polling station. The votes take place in three groups of 50 Members, as you are used to in the roll-call votes since we were dealing with corona in this country. The result will be announced at the end of the rounds of votes, i.e. after this round of votes. Where more than one ballot is required, the same procedure shall apply. I ask the messengers to hand out the ballot papers. You're supposed to write one name on the ballot. Multiple-named notes, with names of non-members of this Chamber and blank notes are invalid and do not count for the calculation of the number of votes needed to obtain the absolute majority. I ask the Registrar to read out the name of each member. Members should respond to that call by standing up and going to the polling station, where the ballot paper can be deposited in the appropriate bus. The Registrar shall take sufficient time between the reading of the names to ensure sufficient distance between members. Each member shall personally take the ballot paper to the voters. And then you'll think, "Why is that bottle right here in front of me?" That's not a free gift. You won't be able to put that in your bag. You shouldn't take a sip of that either. That's meant to disinfect your hands before you walk towards the ballot box, the polling station. I would ask Members to join the polling station with the predecessor and not to press for it. The votes must also be verified. It is also appreciated that Members do not speak with each other and simply take their place again. I therefore ask you not to go through the Chamber during the votes, to stand still or to leave the Chamber. This is useful for the process and clarity of this beautiful moment. What I have to say is that the first ballot is a free round. You know that. This means that Members may vote on all members of this Chamber. I would ask the Registrar to begin reading the names.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you. I shall now suspend the sitting so that the voters can count the votes. I would ask the members of this group to stay close, because at some point I will reopen the sitting for the announcement of the votes in this first round.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	I will reopen the sitting and give the floor to the president of the polling station, Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. A total of 144 votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u9	And 144 members are on the attendance list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. 139 valid votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u11	That means that the absolute majority of the votes cast are valid 70.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u12	27 votes were cast for Mr Bosma. 38 votes were cast for Mr Arib. There were 74 votes in favour of Mr Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u13	As the absolute majority was achieved at 70, Vera Bergkamp was elected President of this Chamber! I would normally hand the hammer over to the newly elected President, but unfortunately that is not the case with corona, so I will suspend for a few moments and invite the new President to come forward and sit on this large blue chair. Then she will receive the sledgehammer and a very large bunch of flowers. I would like to thank the members of the polling station for their careful work. They have been relieved of their duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u14	First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support, for the confidence they have placed in me. Looking at those colleagues who did not vote for me, I hope to be worthy of trust. I would also, of course, like to extend my warmest thanks to my fellow candidates, particularly Mrs Arib, for being our well-respected President in recent years. She worked very hard for our parliament. I would also like to thank a number of people in particular personally. I know my family's watching now. I want to thank my wife. I want to thank my mom. If my father were still there, he'd be very proud of me. I thank my best friend Daniëlle, but also a number of people professionally: Alexander Pechtold, Gerard Schouw, Madeleine van Toorenburg and, of course, my group. I am here on behalf of Bergkamp, as I said in the debate, and not on behalf of D66. I think it's important to say that. I am going to be President for all 149 Members of Parliament, with our organisation. I realize it's a huge task we're facing. The debate has already set out what this is about when we look at the premium issue, the implementation organisations, the move and the fact that we are here in a corona time with 17 political groups. This is a huge challenge, which I would like to address with all of you and with the official organisation. It is a great honour and responsibility, but I am very excited to be your President. I thank everyone, also for the patience, because it has been a long session. All kinds of promises have been made in the debate to make it all a bit shorter. I will do my terrible best to be your President and also the figurehead of the Chamber. You're not. You should be. I hope that confidence will grow in that. Looking at society too, I find it very honorable to be President of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much and I will close this meeting.
