ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u1	At the parliamentary end of the debate is the proposal of the national law of Mr Verhoeven and Mr Jetten, declaring that there is reason to consider a proposal for a change to the Constitution to include provisions on membership of the European Union (35202-(R2126)). I would like to welcome the initiators. That is Mr Jetten and Mr Verhoeven. With Mr Verhoeven, I think every time: this is the last time I see him in this Chamber. Every time we say goodbye, he's there. You're very welcome. Mr Jetten and Mr Verhoeven are supported by Mr Olivier Schmidt. He works for the D66 Group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term of office took place on 9 December. Today we are discussing first-term and second-term responses. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u2	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank all the spokesmen for the attention they have given to the legislative proposal, first because of their questions in the written procedure and then in the first period in December. Mr Verhoeven and I will try to answer the questions asked as well as possible. Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would also like to take this opportunity to express a word of thanks for our support. From the D66 group they are: Veerle Brink, Huub Linthorst, Olivier Schmidt and Levi Bakker. Bureau Legislation of the House of Representatives helped us to put the legal points on the i and finally I thank the support from the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations: Mr Steven Hillebrink, Mr Joost Westerweel and Mr Willem Knigge. Their expertise was greatly appreciated in writing this bill. Mr President, if I may. I also find it special to be here today with Mr Verhoeven. When I became a Member of Parliament, I was placed in the room with him for the first few months, so I could learn the tricks of the profession from him. When I became the chairman of the political group, Kees Verhoeven was Vice-President and he also assisted me at that time with all his wisdom. I like to defend this law with him today on the last day of this House of Representatives. Mr President, briefly on the answer. I will start with an introduction and with questions about the added value of the bill, the relationship between the Constitution and the EU, the difference between NATO and the United Nations and the changing nature of the European Union. My colleague Kees Verhoeven will then discuss the possible exit procedure, the Europe Act and a number of other questions. First of all, a few words for introduction. This Chamber regularly discusses European cooperation and the European Union: from European migration policy to the Green Deal, from the Brexit to sanctions against Belarus. Opinions often differ, and sometimes things get fierce. But the fact that the EU is there as a layer of governance and that the Union has a major influence on our daily lives is something that we all recognise is positive or negative. In the input of many parties, I also heard the recognition that the EU has a strong influence on our state system, but also on citizens and businesses in this country. For example, Mr Van Gent of the VVD stated that the Union's great importance for the VVD is beyond question. Mr Van der Staaij recognised the enormous impact the EU has on our legal system. Mr Van Helvert and Mr Van Ojik both spoke about the EU as a meaningful value community. As initiators, we were pleased to hear that many parties recognise the EU's influence on the lives of Dutch citizens and on our state system. That is the starting point of this legislative proposal. This brings me to the first question about the added value of this constitutional change. Why is this proposal necessary and what consequences does it have? Questions have been asked about this by the Christian Union, the CDA and the PVV. First of all, why does the EU belong in our Constitution? That starts with the common principle assumption, which I have just appointed. The importance of the European Union for the Dutch legal order is so great that it would be wrong not to pay attention to it at the level of the Constitution. The Netherlands is very much intertwined with the European Union. Think of the European regulations that work directly in the Netherlands and the institutions to which powers have been delegated. This has a major impact on our state system. The European Union not only affects the functioning of the government, but the EU membership of the Netherlands also has a direct impact on Dutch citizens, including in the form of Union citizenship. This is an addition to national citizenship, with which every European citizen, for example, has the right to move freely within the territory of the Member States and has the freedom to reside, live or work there. This includes the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament. From the above, the initiators conclude that membership of the Netherlands of the European Union is undoubtedly one of the main elements of our state system. We, as initiators, are expressly not judging on this; it is a factual finding. EU membership has a major impact on public authorities and citizens, but it is not yet mentioned in our Constitution, which is striking. Because not many constitutional provisions have such an impact on our state system as that membership. The replacement of MPs in pregnancy and illness, Article 57a, and the unified assembly chaired by the President of the First Chamber, Article 62 of the Constitution, both know their own constitutional article. They are, of course, important and have been incorporated into our Constitution for a reason in the past, but they are a little less at the heart of our state system, of the lives of Dutch people and of Dutch companies than the EU. Adding this membership also fits in with the central position of the Constitution in our state system. However, so far the EU has not been mentioned in our Constitution. Of course, it is not for nothing that twenty other EU Member States have already done so. The Council of State also shares this surprise: "In the light of the above, the Section agrees with the initiators that membership of the EU, including in the light of its economic, institutional and legal implications, is without doubt one of the main elements of our state system. These circumstances make it understandable that the Constitution should include a provision tailored to the Union." In addition to this point of principle, we are also looking at the consequences of inclusion in the Constitution with a practical look. These months we see the consequences of a chaotic Brexit. Such a process with such consequences should be avoided in the Netherlands, should a nexit option ever be on the table here. A clear, democratic procedure is of great importance for a possible exit, with exit only possible if there is broad and stable support for this by voters and political parties. There is no such specific procedure at the moment. There are possible interpretations of the procedure to be followed. Mr Verhoeven will deal with this in detail later, but I will answer a few questions. Mr Bosma said: "We have Article 50 of the EU Treaty, right? Isn't that a procedure?" The first paragraph of Article 50 states that a Member State may, in accordance with its constitutional requirements, decide to withdraw from the Union. However, a specific constitutional provision on retirement is still lacking in our Constitution. This bill proposes orderly rules on exit, a direct consequence of this constitutional proposal. I would also like to stress that retirement is always a possible political choice, but we would like to make it clear that, if we want to go to a nexit at some point, we can arrange it in an orderly manner. In legal practice, this means a constitutional amendment procedure, I say in the direction of the CDA Group, which specifically asked for it. Mr Verhoeven will shortly go into more detail about this exit procedure. Mr. Chairman. The third component of the bill is based on the Europe Act. If the bill is made law, the direct consequence is that it must be passed. Why, so early, among other things, the Christian Union. Now that the draft law proposes to include a provision on EU membership in the Constitution, it also includes a provision on parliamentary involvement in decision-making on the European Union, taking into account the usual and necessary checks-and-balances in our state system. We will discuss this later on in the light of the questions asked. Mr Van Helvert asked what we have to do with this proposal. What is really improving for the Netherlands? In response to this, I can be brief and powerful. We are doing justice to the EU's important position in our state system. We're organizing an orderly exit procedure. We ensure that there is always a law governing Parliament's involvement in European decision-making. This ensures that what now has the status of agreements between government and parliament can only be achieved and amended by the democratic procedure of a law. Mr Van Helvert stressed that he and his group share the importance of the European Union for the Netherlands. However, he has not so far been convinced that the absence of a provision in our Constitution undermines the recognition of the importance of the European Union for the Netherlands. Of course, I appreciate that the CDA Group is convinced of the importance of the European Union. I fully understand that the CDA has that view, regardless of whether or not there is a provision in our Constitution. However, it is a question of whether we all want to express this interest in the Constitution. In our view, the Constitution loses meaning if new key elements of the state system are not included. Moreover, the Constitution also has an educational function. The main elements of the system shall be read out. Mr Van Ojik suggested several reasons why he believed that membership of the Union deserves a place in the Constitution, in addition to the reasons already described by me and Mr Verhoeven. It referred to the growing importance of resolving cross-border problems through cross-border cooperation, such as climate change and migration on the one hand, and the growing geopolitical significance of the EU on the other. He sees both as a good reason to regulate both the incorporation into the Constitution and the parliamentary involvement in our Constitution. Mr Van Helvert also stressed this geopolitical role. He said: "In the new relationship, Europe will have to determine its position on its own as a global player more often than before in order to protect the European way of life and our security and prosperity." I can only confirm that. I think that both gentlemen are quite right to point out the development of the fact that there is a broad recognition in Parliament that cross-border problems require a European approach. The same applies to the growing geopolitical significance of European foreign policy. These changing insights underline the need for European policy and thus increase the EU's importance for the Netherlands and our state system. It is all the more strange that no attention is paid to this at the level of the Constitution. In the direction of Mr Van Helvert, who has just arrived, I say that I have just given all kinds of compliments to your address for your contribution in the first term. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the following point: the relationship between the Constitution and the European Union. In particular, the SGP asked questions about this. First of all, Mr Van der Staaij asked for the Constitution, and I would also like to welcome Mr Bishop today, whether it is necessary to anchor EU membership in the Constitution in order to safeguard the core values of that membership, fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law. That's what we have our own Constitution for, isn't it? I can simply say that this is true. The establishment of Union membership would not be the only guarantee. Of course, we also know our fundamental rights in our own Constitution, but not just there. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the EU Treaties, in particular the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, contain important additions. As a result, the proposed provision does have a guarantee function. EU membership is not without obligation. Pursuant to Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, the Union is based on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Pursuant to Article 7 of that Convention, membership of the Union requires Member States to actively protect and maintain these values. For this reason, the initiators have also argued that the proposed provision on membership of the European Union has not only a declaratory function but also a normative function. Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP also referred to the position of the Thomasses State Commission, which stated in 2010 that membership of the EU would not be a fundamental constitutional principle. Why do we not follow that line was the question of the SGP Group. I would point out that this state committee, too, found the absence of the EU in our Constitution to be unfortunate. That is why the State Commission chose to advise on amending Article 90 and to add the European legal order to it. I quote: 'The addition is intended to give the Netherlands' participation in European integration, particularly within the framework of the European Union and the Council of Europe, a place in the Constitution. The European legal order and the law that includes this order, in particular the law of the European Union and the law related to the Council of Europe, are so important to the Netherlands that, in the opinion of the Thomasses State Commission, the European legal order should be explicitly mentioned in addition to the international legal order in general." Mr. Chairman. The State Commission and we as initiators therefore agree that the participation of the Netherlands in European integration deserves a place in the Constitution. However, we have opted for a different approach and feel strengthened by the 2006 National Convention and the WRR in a specific report on Europe in 2007. On the contrary, both recommended that the EU be included in the Constitution. As explained earlier, the inclusion of membership serves purposes other than mere clarification of the current situation. It is the recognition of it as a fundamental element of our state system, it has a guarantee function and it offers an orderly exit procedure. In addition, as confirmed by the Council of State, the inclusion of EU membership has a normative purpose and not just a declaratory objective, as the Thamassen Commission last outlined. To sum up, we agree that the participation of the Netherlands in the EU and the European legal order deserves to be incorporated into the Constitution, but not exactly how it should be done. Perhaps that sums up the various positions of the SGP and the initiators. Finally, Mr van der Staaij asked for a motion from Mr Brinkhorst from 1980, which he believed would show that European integration is above all else and that we should put the Constitution aside for that. I think that is a little more nuanced. The motion was then tabled by D66, CDA and VVD in the preparation of the constitutional revision which took place in 1983. It is clear from the Acts of that time that this was not intended to call for an EU-compliant interpretation of our Constitution by definition. Brinkhorst stressed that the Netherlands is part of the European legal order, with Union law taking precedence over national law. It still is. The primacy of Union law does not mean that the Netherlands must agree to any EU initiative. Treaty changes need to be approved here, in this Parliament. If a treaty amendment deviates from our Constitution, then approval requires a two-thirds majority in both chambers, in accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution. The 1980 Brinkhorst motion underlined the legal and political obligations that the Netherlands has assumed with EU membership. As far as we are concerned, these obligations still apply. The 2013 Van der Staaij/Slob motion doesn't change that either. Mr. Chairman. Then questions have been asked by the VVD and the Christian Union about NATO and the United Nations. If we define EU membership in the Constitution, why not join NATO or the UN? That is an understandable question, because the UN and NATO are also very important to the Netherlands. As Mr Van Gent said, NATO is fundamental to our country's defence. We, as initiators, share the importance of NATO and the UN, but at the same time believe that the EU cannot be compared to a regular international organisation. Let me say first of all that in principle the Constitution regulates only the main elements of the state system. We believe that the EU belongs to this for various reasons. All these reasons do not or do not apply to regular international organisations. I'll highlight three. Firstly, the European legal order. The law of the European Union constitutes a legal order of its own which operates in the Member States, independently of their specific national legal order. Moreover, it has developed widely in various areas, from the internal market to climate and from consumer law to privacy rules. In international law, this is something else, especially in the area of transit. International law can have direct effect in certain cases in our legal system. The judge must then first check whether a provision connects everyone. But that is what it is based on Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution. European law, for example, think of the GDPR system, works automatically. For example, anyone can sue a company because it has processed his or her personal data in violation of the GDPR, if it were as if the GDPR was a Dutch law. National courts can then apply EU law in its entirety and are obliged to exclude national provisions contrary to EU law. Precisely because EU law does not depend on the national legal order of Member States for its operation, the European Union is thus very different from a regular international organisation. Secondly, the transfer of powers at European level. The Member States have delegated powers to the European Union, in respect of which the Member States are no longer competent. As is so often the case in treaties, in Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, we have committed ourselves, in this case, to providing assistance to another Member State such as that has been attacked; but only, as is often regulated by international conventions, with measures that we ourselves consider necessary. This is not comparable to the transfer of powers that is at stake in the European Union. Thirdly, the European institutions are also different from those of a regular international organisation. The EU has its own parliament, the European Parliament, where citizens elect their representatives in elections. Parliament plays a role in the European legislative process. This is not the case with a regular international organisation. The EU also has its own judge, its own executive and its own central bank. All these institutions have an influence on the Dutch state system and on our daily lives. On some points these institutions have been transferred functions from Dutch institutions. Finally, Dutch citizens derive rights from the EU Treaty. Anyone who has the nationality of one of the Member States is also automatically EU citizens. This implies rights, such as the right to vote in the EP elections, but also the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. International organisations such as NATO and the UN do not know such citizenship in the same way. In conclusion, we believe that the EU is incomparable with a regular international organisation and has a very special role in our state system. We therefore believe that the EU should be enshrined in the Constitution and not NATO or the UN. However, should one of the room members ever come up with the idea of proposing such a constitutional change, we will naturally be interested in assessing it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the last block of my answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u3	The question that was asked to the authors on this point last time was also a matter for me after that debate. Mr Jetten explains very well what his vision is the difference between the European Union on the one hand and the international organisations on the other, but I would like to ask Mr Jetten the following. Would he perhaps make a distinction in this respect between NATO and the United Nations, for example? I have to be honest... It seems to me that we now have a little time for a broader debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u4	Well, that's not entirely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u5	That point of the United Nations triggered something in my mind. I thought maybe you could also say that it's not as crazy as...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u6	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u8	I can also admit that this is one of the questions that we, as initiators, have long discussed with our support in order to prepare for this response, because, of course, we all see the added value of the UN and NATO. I think that if you go back to the Thomasses State Commission and Article 90 of our Constitution, which states 'The Government promotes the development of the international and European legal order', Article 90 would make quite a logical reference to the United Nations. However, it did not seem appropriate for us to add the United Nations to our legislative proposal at this stage of this constitutional change, because we have really chosen a very specific approach to the EU's broad implementation, not only in our state system, but also in our daily lives. I am not surprised to have a debate on the position of the UN in our Constitution, but I think that is really of a different order, as I have just argued. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the changing nature of the Union. Several parties requested this in the first period. Mr Van Gent of the VVD said: 'We have come from the ECSC through the EEC and the EC to the EU. If there is a change of name in the future and we have laid down "EU" in our Constitution, is that a problem?" That's a fair question. In the same context, the SGP asked for a situation where we would like to scale the EU down to a separate partnership. Doesn't this constitutional provision stand in the way? I am also referring to Mr Van Raak's remark, which in a glowing speech said that we must save Europe from the neoliberal bull, as he said, before we introduce this EU into our Constitution. I would suggest that the proposed provision does not exclude the further development of the European Union. This can lead to increased cooperation, but also to the loosening of the partnership. We can all have our own preferences, but that is not what this constitutional change is about. It is not the case that the proposed provision only refers to what Mr Van Raak calls "this EU." I translate that as the Union based on the treaties currently in force. Because even if these treaties are amended, it is still about treaties concerning the European Union, of which the Netherlands is a member. The same applies to a situation in which the name of the Union will one day be changed. That will then be done by means of a treaty amendment. Such a treaty will have to follow the procedure laid down in Article 91 (3) of our Constitution, which differs from the text of the Constitution. However, if it is still the same organisation that is still a member of the Netherlands and only the name is changed, for example because the flag will better cover the cargo, then we will have to do what is customary in such situations: a reasonable interpretation of the Constitution, followed by the amendment of the Constitution as soon as there is a good opportunity, for example, for an adjustment of the spelling, with a number of amendments to the Constitution at once. As far as we are concerned, therefore, a direct adjustment is not necessary if there is a change in name. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the reply on the added value of the bill, the relationship between the Constitution and the EU, the difference with NATO and the UN, and the changing nature of the Union. Mr Verhoeven will be discussing the exit procedure, the Europe Act, the referendum, the questions on the Kingdom and a number of other questions that the Chamber has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u9	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. We wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned and then I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, of course, would also like to thank all those who have supported us in coming up with this proposal. I am delighted that this is my last appearance in the House of Representatives after ten years: plenary, an initiative law, with my esteemed group chairman and the vice-premier, who are both associated with my party, and then again about the European Union and in the presence of Mr Bosma! It can't be today!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u11	It's a historic moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u12	Yes, an historic moment. As my colleague Mr Jetten has just said, I will begin with the subject on which most of the questions have been asked: the exit procedure resulting from this bill. Perhaps, in general terms, I can say a few words about this. Over the last few weeks and months, we have witnessed or witnessed the chaos in the United Kingdom: the long traffic jams at the ports, the rotting fish, the companies moving to the mainland of Europe and even the hoarding by people in the UK. All these images confront us with the consequences of a possible exit from the European Union. It is a decision with far-reaching consequences. Of course, we have seen the damage of the Brexit for a long time, since 2016. At the end of this year, Brexit will have cost almost as much as the United Kingdom has paid net to the European Union in 47 years. Without the forthcoming departure from the European Union, the European economy would now be 3% larger. Following the decision to leave the United Kingdom from the European Union, thousands of people have worked very hard to reduce the damage and to clean up the mess of Mr Cameron, Mr Johnson and Mr Farage. The Brexit has made clear the importance of a clear procedure and sufficient democratic legitimacy in a decision to retire. For us as initiators, it is essential that retirement should always be possible as a political choice, but that this should be done carefully rather than in the messy way in which this process has gone on in the United Kingdom over the past five years. After all, it has a very serious impact on our country and, therefore, on citizens and businesses. The anchoring of membership in the Constitution supports the idea that retirement remains possible but needs to be carefully, because our proposal for retirement requires a constitutional change. Many countries, such as Sweden and Austria, have such an exit procedure, which also requires a two-thirds majority. Mr. Chairman. I assume that I have answered Mr Schonis' question as to why this is necessary. Mr Van Gent said that if a decision were to be taken on a subsequent decision, the Dutch exit from the European Union would be ahead of us, which would probably not happen between the nose and the lips for a moment, but would then be debated by the House of Representatives. He noted that we would not take such a decision lightly. I agree with him, and I'm glad he says that, too. Indeed, I can imagine that the Chamber would debate this very strongly, but it is now not sufficiently clear how that procedure would go. After all, there is no specific procedure, and I will explain this. Pursuant to Article 50 (1) of the EU Treaty, a Member State may, in accordance with its constitutional requirements, decide to withdraw from the Union. The second paragraph states that the Member State which decides to withdraw shall notify the European Union of that intention. That is the notification of the intention to retire. We also remember this from the example of the United Kingdom: there was first a referendum, with a majority of the population voting for retirement, and then it took some time for that notification letter, which was supposed to trigger Article 50. But that is the first procedural step. Entry shall take place when a withdrawal agreement enters into force or, if not, two years after notification of the withdrawal plan. That is clear in itself, as Mr Bosma suggested, but that is the European side of the matter. Since there is no specific Dutch constitutional regulation, the question of what would be the first step here in the Netherlands is not directly answerable. The idea might be that a motion would then be adopted in the House of Representatives asking the government to make that Article 50 notification. It could be. In Dutch relations this could then be a first appropriate step. On the other hand, however, it is intended that such a notification will lead to the termination of the EU treaties and that the rules for the termination of treaties will therefore apply. They require approval by a law, a retirement law, which can, by the way, be adopted by a simple majority. But, and that is a bit of the problem, a notification is only a plan and the application of the treaties will only end when a withdrawal agreement has entered into force or when the two-year period for reaching such an agreement has expired. And again, we have all seen during the aftermath of the brexirefementum and the exit process how incredibly chaotic that can happen both politically and socially and economically. This also means that the discussion may soon arise as to whether in the Netherlands the approval law should have been adopted for the termination of the EU treaties before the Article 50 notification is sent or before a withdrawal agreement is concluded. In the latter case, the legal approvals for the withdrawal agreement and for the withdrawal of the treaties could coincide, but it is of course clear that it would be much safer if the legal approval for the withdrawal of the treaties were achieved before the notification of the Article 50 proposal was sent. That remains possible; I admit that. This certainly applies to people who support the idea of a nexit and may wish for retirement to take place as soon as possible, and certainly if that were proposed by the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. The beauty of this bill is that it solves this problem. We say that the Constitution must first be amended, and then it is clear that there can be an Article 50 procedure. That means you do the preparation first and then the execution. It is therefore our preference to introduce a specific procedure so that it is clear to everyone how retirement should take place. We therefore attach great importance to a long and strong majority. A constitutional change is the appropriate instrument for this. Since EU membership is also of constitutional order and is a key element of our state system, Mr Jetten has just said a great deal about it. There will therefore be a constitutional change before retirement. As I have already mentioned, many other Member States are doing so. The past has shown that, in the case of large decisions with enormous and sometimes difficult foreseeable consequences, it is very wise to take the time rather than to make hasty decisions. This often improves the quality of the decision. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schonis asked what exactly the Article 50 procedure would look like if the proposal were to be made law. When can this procedure start? I'd like to explain. If our proposal before us is made law after the second reading, then the Netherlands will not be able to make the notification of a plan, which is referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 50, until the Constitution has been amended in such a way that the Article 95a proposed by us has lapsed. That is what we are proposing. A prior constitutional amendment is therefore necessary for retirement under Article 50. That is what Mr Schonis has rightly noted and summarised. In view of the normative nature of the proposed article, that provision will also prevent the Dutch Government from cooperating in a change or termination of the EU Treaties without any prior constitutional amendment, so that they no longer apply to the Netherlands. In the light of this discussion, Mr Van Gent also asked whether the current constitutional revision procedure was democratic. That is, of course, a slightly different part, but since we are talking about a constitutional change, that is of course a legitimate question. He said 26 out of 75 senators, a third plus one of the senators, could block a change. That is a very interesting issue in itself. It is also an issue which the Minister for the Interior is dealing with. As you all know, the House of Representatives recently adopted a legislative proposal at first reading which provides for the second reading of a proposal for revision of the Constitution to be dealt with in future at the United States General Assembly. This means that at second reading the First and Second Chambers will vote jointly on the proposal. The government wants to prevent a limited minority of the First Chamber from preventing a constitutional change supported by a large majority in the directly elected Second Chamber. That is actually exactly the point Mr Van Gent made. My party, D66, supports that bill, too. This also applies to a large majority in the House of Representatives. In that sense, therefore, this is the right way to go by dealing with a legislative proposal that affects this issue. Mr Van Helvert of the CDA also asked a question about this. He said: what significance does the Minister of the Interior's proposal to deal with the second reading of a constitutional change at the United Assembly? Well, that's when that bill is passed. The strong majority supporting the bill in the House of Representatives therefore offers a chance to do so in order to speed up the amendment of the Constitution. The vote can then be taken at the same time at second reading. In any case, it is good to note and note that the main reason is that the Constitution, although it is a constitution, must go along with its time. The Constitution is now rather rigid. As far as I am concerned, a change to the Constitution should be possible, but not lightly. As the Minister said earlier, solid and broad support remains the starting point. I believe that this is guaranteed as long as two readings are required. And in the second reading, even if it is added up and at the same time in the First Chamber and the Second Chamber, two thirds of Parliament must agree. This brings us to Mr Van der Staaij. I am speaking to him now through Mr Bishop. Mr Van der Staaij expressed concerns about the European Union's interior climate. The indoor climate was a metaphor. He chose the metaphor of the indoor climate and suggested that if you have problems with the indoor climate, you should look at the ventilation system. He was referring to the creeping erosion of national sovereignty. I can make two comments on this. First of all, the EU's ventilation system, which I would like to support, is the excellent SGP metaphor that further transfer of powers from the Netherlands to the European Union would require a treaty change, with the need for all Member States to agree to it. Secondly, the Europe Act proposed in this bill is also an important way of achieving better climate control, as Mr van der Staaij said. Well, I guess that's all I want to do. If we followed Mr Van der Staaij's metaphor even further, with, of course, the danger of it becoming almost inimitable, for example, the comparison with the internal environment of schools would lead to the conclusion that if you want to keep the lock on the door of freedom of education, you also need that two-thirds majority for a constitutional review. You'd get rid of it, which could make you get infectious viruses in the indoor climate in the schools. So it is just from what perspective you look at whether a two-thirds majority is pleasant to promote the indoor climate in a situation that you are or are not in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u13	I have the impression that I could not quite follow Mr Verhoeven's last jump.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u14	He was also...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u15	You were gonna say bold. Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u16	Well, yeah, subtle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u17	Well, the metaphor was about the following. If you have a bad indoor climate, do you promote the quality of the indoor climate by putting an extra lock on the door? That was the metaphor in all simplicity. Mr Verhoeven argues that this is more or less the case. That's what I'm getting out of his words. I can't quite see that link, but good. Mr Van der Staaij has also argued that it is a little strange that for the transfer of powers we are talking about the formal transfer of powers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is the first question. Then there is the second question. Mr Verhoeven talks about the transfer of powers. I don't want to make it a word game, but then it's about the formal transfer. What we have repeatedly pointed out is that they are mechanisms which lead to the transfer of powers in an improper way and not democratically controlled. I am thinking, for example, of the case law of the European Court of Justice. The interpretation of these rules, usually in favour of Treaty law, leads to a reduction in... etc. Would Mr Verhoeven still like to respond to these two issues, and certainly to the latter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u18	Just briefly to finish the metaphor, so we can really go to the technical content. If you want to be ventilated, you don't have to put a lock more or less on the door, but then you just have to open the windows. You can open the windows in many different ways, but in our explanation of your metaphor, throwing the windows is not the same as leaving the European Union. In other words: you don't have to kick in the door to ventilate, just to put it that way. I see that Mr Bishop now understands this and also understands how I explained his metaphor, so we can consider that part as handled. Then we go to that point about the two thirds. That is where Mr Van der Staaij... Indeed, the SGP itself has made a proposal to require a two-thirds majority for a treaty amendment. Now Mr Bishop says: if you do not want it, you should not want it the other way around. By the way, a majority of the Chamber blocked that proposal, because in the end the SGP proposal did not find a majority. I was already laughing when Mr Van der Staaij said this at the time, during the first speech of the Chamber, because of course it is the other way round for the SGP. They don't want a two-thirds majority before retirement. At least, that seems to be the position of the SGP in this examination so far. But they do want to change treaties. Then you come back a little bit on the way you look at the situation. We are actually saying very simply: we want there to be a sound procedure that regulates exit. We believe that you should do so by saying: 'Membership of the European Union is in the Constitution. If you then want to leave the European Union, you will have to change the Constitution first." That is the procedure we are proposing. That is actually the answer to what Mr Van der Staaij, and now Mr Bishop, asked. Then there is the indirect point. That was the last thing he asked. He said he was talking not so much about direct transfer of sovereignty, for which a treaty change is needed, but about indirect transfer through case law. That is, of course, another subject, because you cannot, of course, steer case law here on the basis of a political task in changing legislation. So in that sense, it's a little hard to fix that here. This gradual case law is largely outside this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u19	To start with the latter. I will try to be brief, Mr President, to reassure you. Although the motion by the SGP on Mr Brinkhorst's interpretation on how to deal with the difference in weighting between European law and the Constitution was adopted in 2013, we still note that this indirect transfer is going ahead, in a creeping, somewhat uncontrolled and uncontrollable way. On that other point, the two thirds. You would have made this legislative proposal a lot harder for us if it would have been formally regulated in a balanced way both by transferring powers and by taking them back. At this stage, the SGP is definitely not talking about exit from the EU. That's not the point. However, we note that criticism of the EU is increasing. There is irritation about the EU. Sometimes the EU is powerless to organise things properly. Look at the recent vaccine debacle. We note that these voices are getting stronger and that, as it were, the EU is no longer the constructive force that you need at this time in order to really choose a solid position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u20	Now we might even get to a much more important point. Mr Bishop and I have talked about this many times in the years when I was Europe spokesperson. In doing so, I have even pointed out to the SGP that it itself, of course, plays a role in undermining that European Union as a constructive organisation in resolving the major cross-border issues. It's exactly what happens all the time. That's what the SGP does. Mr Bishop starts by saying that the SGP is not for retirement. That is the formal position: we are not in favour of retirement. That's one sentence. Then there will be a comma, and then there will be a very long argument that there are all kinds of people who are worried and no longer have support for or no sense of belonging to the European Union as an institution to solve problems. Then there will be an example like the vaccine debacle. There are, of course, always problems caused by politicians at all levels of scale, but you can also have as an institution: we as a Member State of the European Union are trying to work as well and as hard as possible to explain the decisions that the European Union makes to the Dutch people and also to show what our own responsibility as a Member State is as part of the European Union. There are times when there is no political leadership in this Chamber. It is always said that if something goes wrong, it is the fault of the European Union. Then the bureaucrats in Brussels have done the weather; so there are many often used metaphors. When something goes well in the European Union, the Heads of Government often tell their own parliament how wonderfully they have negotiated again to the last hole to serve the national interest. Then I think it is not surprising that at some point there are people who think: the European Union is not good and the national parliaments and heads of government are top leaders. I therefore ask Mr Bishop and will also tomorrow... I am allowed to perform tomorrow in a very special television programme of the SGP with Mr Van der Staaij. I suggest you all take a look at that at 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u21	Did you know that, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u22	Yes, I knew that, and I also hear how he makes every effort to circumvent my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u23	Well, that's part of the job, too, let's just say. However, I believe that more leadership should be shown by showing what is the responsibility of parliaments in what is happening in decision-making in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u24	This is the familiar story. I am not going to go into that too much substance. It's actually the story of: if you don't applaud what's coming from Brussels, you break it down. But we have a separate responsibility here. I'll leave it at that. My question to Mr Verhoeven was the following. This bill provides for a higher blockage for exit: a two-thirds majority. Then why does this bill not contain a higher limit for accession or transfer of powers? That is what Mr Van der Staaij has tabled an initiative law, which has not been passed in the First Chamber. In the House of Representatives, by the way, I would like to mention this in a footnote to the Acts. That was actually the question. You would have made it very difficult for us to vote against your own initiative proposal, or at least a lot more difficult. And not now. This is so evidently a careless bill that it is clear to everyone that the SGP will of course vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u25	Sure. The short answer to the question is that, of course, I am not in favour of making it difficult for the SGP, as Mr Bishop says. Why would I want to make it difficult for the SGP? The longer answer is as follows. Mr Van der Staaij has tried, through an initiative proposal, to ensure that the transfer of sovereignty requires a two-thirds majority. That proposal was rejected by the Supreme Court. We are now proposing to establish membership of the European Union in the Constitution and thereby to ensure that a two-thirds majority is needed for a proposal to retire, because this is the level of support for a constitutional change. So these are two totally separate things, of which Mr Van der Staaij now says that you must treat retirement on the one hand and transfer of sovereignty on the other hand in exactly the same way, with the same threshold and the same weight. We simply disagree. We believe that membership of the European Union is such that you cannot simply table a motion in the House of Representatives on an afternoon-to-afternoon to say: we are getting out. It must remain a political possibility. Even if the SGP comes to the decision to withdraw at some point, that should be possible. Only then must there be a long and strong majority that does so, so that we do not get the chaos as in the United Kingdom. That's the answer. So I would not like to compare the Van der Staaij proposal with the Jetten/Verhoeven proposal, but would like to look at them separately. That is why I would also ask the SGP to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u26	Please continue. I do not know if it will impress Mr Bishop, but you have tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u27	We'll see about that. Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union, like Mr Bishop, spoke about the acceptance of membership of the European Union. She said: "There is strong support in the Netherlands for membership of the European Union. The latest report by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows this again. There is broad support in the Netherlands for membership. The European Union continues to add value every day." Those are very nice words that I fully share. However, she raised the question of whether we would not put pressure on that basis by bringing forward pregnant retirement in this bill. In fact, I do not see any connection between mentioning European Union membership in the Constitution and possibly reducing its support for membership. We propose that membership of the European Union be included in the Constitution, because it is simply one of the main elements of our system of state. For the key elements already included in the Constitution, too, there is considerable public support for them. This varies from monarchy to fundamental rights and the independence of the judiciary. I do not know of an example of an element that was incorporated into our Constitution in the 1983 Constitution and then into our Constitution, and for which there has been a decline in support. Moreover, in the legislative proposal as it is now before us, the withdrawal on the advice of the Council of State is less pregnant than in the original bill that we had written. The exit procedure, the constitutional revision, is now the implication of the incorporation into the Constitution of membership of the European Union itself. In other words, we do not describe a specific procedure, but we believe that the fact that we are proposing to include EU membership in the Constitution guarantees that there is a sound procedure, namely that constitutional change that needs time and a certain majority. Then we also had questions from Mr Bosma. In his contribution he pointed to semi-Dutch companies such as Shell and Unilever leaving the Netherlands for the United Kingdom. Shell doesn't have any moving plans. At the same time, no less than 3,100 jobs are created in Amsterdam by companies that move because of the Brexit. To put it a little simpler: the PVV lives in a fairy tale world in which a nexit would turn out to be positive; that's also what they keep saying, namely that it would be good for the Netherlands. But look at the United Kingdom and you see the consequences. UK exports to the European Union decreased by 68%. In the Netherlands, we earn a third of our income from foreign trade, for the most part within the European Union. So the question is whether the PVV Netherlands wants to destroy the Netherlands as a trading country. As far as I am concerned, the answer is no, we should not do that. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about the second paragraph of the proposed Article 95a, which is the Europe Act. Mr Jetten has, of course, already said a few things about it. We propose to include a provision on membership of the European Union in the Constitution. This includes, of course, the necessity and also the important use of checks-and-balances, also in view of our state system. A provision is needed which regulates parliamentary involvement in the decision-making of the European Union, precisely because these European laws and treaties have far-reaching consequences for the Netherlands. At the moment, the information position of our Parliament, of the House of Representatives, with regard to European decision-making is loosely described in Parliamentary letters. They are only more or less accessible to insiders. They are in fourteen different chambers and are not always well respected. Consolidation in a law promotes awareness of Chambers, Cabinets and Citizens as well as compliance with them. An assignment to the legislator to regulate this subject also implies a guarantee against ending the then existing practice without replacing it. This is important, as Mr Van Ojik said in his first term, because it is not expected that the European solution to cross-border problems will decrease in the coming period. Given the current dynamics both geopolitics and, for example, migration and coronavirus, cross-border problems are likely to require increasing attention. This makes it even more important to regulate parliamentary involvement and national involvement properly. The Remkes State Commission has said that crises must be overcome, looking at world politics, the crisis in the financial sector, migratory flows and threatening trade wars. The state committee says, I quote: 'In such situations decisions are taken by Heads of Government and Heads of State, generally without prior involvement of national parliaments. They often have to be content with providing information on decisions taken afterwards, which cannot be reversed. In such cases, at least in the Netherlands, there is full ministerial responsibility and the parliament can, by appealing to its constitutionally enshrined intelligence law, ask the government not only for clarification, but also for accountability. Often this happens only in part, so there is a risk that issues will not be spoken and latent discontent continues to smolder." I say this so emphatically to Mr Bishop because it is precisely the importance of this Europe law. A good parliamentary examination of proposals facing the Netherlands or proposals that drive the Netherlands, taken by the European Union, makes it possible for citizens in the Netherlands, who see this Parliament as one of the evaluators of these plans, to get a good feeling about them. It is often lacking, because we mainly deliver, often afterwards, to the European Union rather than to influence in advance what is happening within the European Union. We all know the general consultation prior to a particular council, where one or two MPs are present from the fourteen parties. These are the AOs which discuss in advance the commitment of the Dutch govern ment in the European Union and in the European Council. For that there is always little attention for Members of Parliament, while the debates in which a decision can afterwards be called a disgrace, in which we, as the Netherlands, have sat at the table ourselves, are often very well-visited debates, in which many rich metaphors flow and all kinds of big words are spoken, which are of course heard again by people who think: well, there is a lot wrong with that European Union. So that doesn't have to be right at all. Mr. Chairman. That is why the State Commission is... "For this reason', I must say; I must take that on my own account. For this reason, too, the State Commission is strongly in favour of a Europe law. It states that a Europe law is an essential complement, because a Europe law is the legal anchoring of existing and additional agreements and practices, in addition to the new rules to ensure the provision of information to Parliament. The State Committee therefore recommends the introduction of a European law. Mr Schonis of D66 asked which parts of that opinion were taken on board. With this bill we welcome the opinion of the committee on a Europe law. The proposal gives a constitutional mandate to the formal legislator. Mr Van Ojik also said something about this. He wondered how this bill, in which we call for a European law, relates to initiatives taken earlier in this area. Indeed, as spokesmen of the European Union, I recall that at some point we were informed of a proposal from Mr Mulder of the VVD and Mr Maij of the Labour Party. In 2017, they presented a proposal for a Europe Act to legally anchor several existing informal rules on the movement between the Chambers and the Government and to improve the information position of the Chamber in relation to the European Union. Unfortunately, because this is sometimes the case with own-initiative legislative proposals. Life is also a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit It has therefore remained a matter of intention. However, as a D66, we thought it was a very interesting bill. We really thought it was a good basis for discussion. Should our proposal be made law and the VVD and the PvdA groups take no further steps to further the Maij/Mulder bill, we assume that the government will come up with such a European legislative proposal to implement the new provision in the Constitution as we are trying to take it a step further today. One way or the other, a law like this has to be introduced. In addition to Maij and Mulder's legislative proposal, the proposed Europe law is, of course, in line with the more general point, which has been repeatedly raised by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Leijten, for example, but also by others in the last parliamentary year, and you have also spoken about it, Mr President-in-Office, that there should be a better information position for the Chamber, even when it comes to European decision-making. It has also happened to me that I went to such a debate prior to a Council to see what a certain ruler on behalf of the Netherlands was going to bring into Europe, and that a year later I learned from documents or from journalists that the contribution of the Netherlands had been quite different from that of the Chamber that had instructed the person in charge. In other words, there is some room for manoeuvre to listen to the Chamber as a ruler, then to travel to Europe, to be confronted with a certain situation, a certain majority, a certain desire, a certain pressure, and then to return to the Netherlands with a slightly different position than the Chamber had given prior to that consultation. As a parliament, therefore, we have an important role to play in monitoring European decision-making, in this case of the European Council as one of the three institutions. It is a widely shared wish that our Chamber should have a grip on important information. Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union has said that Parliament is currently not making sufficient use of the opportunities to influence European decision-making. We'll find each other in there anyway. She too is in favour of a Europe law, but she said: should we not be drafting a Europe law anyway? We see the second part of our proposal, i.e. Article 95 of the Europe Act, as an integral part of the whole initiative act. We think so, because no European decision-making can take place without parliamentary involvement. Good information is indispensable for parliamentary involvement and influence. If we include the EU in the Constitution, we will have parliamentary involvement. Such a constitutional mandate is the usual way of stressing the importance of legal rules on a particular subject without the constitutionalist adopting those rules himself. The constitutional anchoring also means that a European law must be introduced and that, if it is not there, it cannot be repealed without a similar law in place. I therefore consider constitutional anchoring to be important. Mr. Chairman. There's two more cubes to go. One of them is the referendum. Questions have also been asked which touch on this subject of referendum. Not least, Mr Van Gent of the VVD asked whether the initiators, Mr Jetten and I, were sorry that the inclusion of EU membership in the Constitution would exclude a referendum on EU membership in the future. You can already see it in Mr Van Gent's expression of face; I have taken that question as a bit of a teasing. But, of course, I'll answer it. I can be brief about that. I should also like to mention Mr Van Raak. He said he would like to keep the possibility open for a referendum on a new EU treaty. I can actually be brief about that. That's how you know me. This bill does not see or have any consequences for a referendum. We have, of course, often talked about referenda in the past cabinet period. At present, a binding referendum on a nexit, a law of approval of a new European treaty or a constitutional amendment in general is not possible. So all three of these issues cannot be settled by referendum, even if Mr Van Raak's proposal on a corrective referendum would be made law. I hope so with Mr Van Raak, because D66 is in favour of the SP's initiative legislative proposal. But even then, a referendum on a new or a new EU treaty will not be possible. That doesn't change our bill. Mr Van Raak's law is about new legislation. This is not an option for a general nexia meeting on current Union membership. Adoption laws for the ratification of new international treaties or the withdrawal of existing treaties and constitutional changes, even if they are existing, are not possible with Mr Van Raak's initiative law, because they are on the so-called negative list. I believe that Mr Van Gent has also been employed in answering his questions. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the Kingdom. Mr Van Ojik asked whether it would not be better or logical to include membership in the Statute for the Kingdom. First of all, the Kingdom is a party to the treaties on the EU. However, the Caribbean Netherlands and the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom are not part of the territory of the European Union and, in principle, are also outside the European legal order. Under Article 198 of the European Treaty, they are associated with the EU as overseas countries and territories. The background to the proposal is the great influence of the European Union within the European part of the Kingdom. The Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands governs the relationship between the countries of our Kingdom. The constitutional system of the Netherlands is governed by the Constitution rather than by the Statute for the Kingdom, which governs the relationship between the countries of our Kingdom. That is why we do not think it is obvious to include the EU in the Statute, but in the Constitution. Mr Van Helvert asked whether the States of Aruba and Saint Martin, in addition to the States of Curaçao, had contributed to this proposal. That is a possibility. I can remember that at some point I was given the Griffin's job-time that the proposal we are discussing here today had to be postponed because there had not yet been a response and that it was desirable. We sent the bill of law to all three, but only the States of Curaçao subsequently submitted a report. We have answered their questions carefully. On 23 September last year, the Registry of the Second Chamber emailed the States of Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten that the note was published following the Curaçao report and that the applicants would now like to enter the next phase. We then asked them if they could let us know by 14 October 2020 whether they wished to issue a special delegate for the plenary session. That proposal has not yet been responded to. At the end of the day, we decided to proceed with the examination of this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to turn to a number of other questions. That's two or three more. One question is that of Mr Van der Staaij, which has already been discussed in detail, namely why we did not add a provision to the bill on that two-thirds majority. Actually, I've already answered that question. This is a completely different subject. Nevertheless, I hope that the SGP will support our proposal. Then there was a question from Mr Van Helvert. He asked what the consequences of our proposal could be for Poland and the Czech Republic. Poland and the Czech Republic, like the Netherlands, are countries that do not have EU membership in their constitutions. The consequences for their situation are a bit the same as the consequences for us in the current situation, namely that they do not do justice to the existing constitutional situation and therefore do not really have any guarantees to prevent careless retirement. That is why we have made this bill. That is independent of the fact that they still have that situation and do not have a legislative proposal for it. Furthermore, our legislative proposal does not have much influence on their state system and on the way in which they have regulated their membership of the European Union. Mr. Chairman. With that, I think I've answered all the questions. I'll leave it at that. I am very interested in the further treatment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u28	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who is an advisor to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u29	Exactly, that's right, Mr. Chairman. As an advisor to Parliament, I would like to congratulate the initiators, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Jetten, on the fact that they are here presenting own-initiative legislation on a fundamental issue: our Constitution. My role is indeed to advise your Chamber. I will, of course, also share with you the cabinet's position on the constitutional proposal. I have to say it more precisely: it is not just the cabinet's position, but the position of the Council of Ministers of the Kingdom, the RMR. It's not just a bill, it's a proposal of state law. The proposal introduces a new Article 95a into the Constitution. First of all, I will refer to the first paragraph of this article, which simply states that the Kingdom is a member of the European Union. Then I will respond to the second paragraph, which lays down a basis for laying down detailed legal rules on the involvement of the States-General in the decision-making process of the European Union on legislation and treaties. Finally, I will respond briefly to the issue of the procedure for withdrawal from the European Union. So first of all, the first paragraph. Membership of the European Union is without doubt one of the main elements of our state system. The economic, institutional and legal consequences of membership are evident and significant. The Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom also pointed out this. As it turned out during the first term of office, there is a difference of opinion as to whether this observation as such is sufficient to justify a constitutional anchoring of membership. Although the RMR does not consider such a provision to be strictly necessary, it understands the desire of the initiators to include European Union membership in the Constitution. The RMR will gladly leave the assessment of the first paragraph to your Chamber. Paragraph 2 shall contain a settlement order. The law governs the involvement of the States-General in European Union decision-making on legislation and treaties. The RMR considers that this provision is not necessary and can be deleted. The cabinet has always said that a very good public information service is important for the States-General, and it is also committed at European level to improving transparency in European decision-making processes. Directors are already obliged under Articles 42 and 68 of the Constitution to inform the States-General in an unsolicited manner. We are actively implementing this. It is not in line with the nature of the Constitution to include a constitutional basis for implementing legislation in order to clarify and ensure existing practice. As a result of the obligation to provide information, extensive information arrangements on EU files with the Chamber have already been made and recorded in an overview. I have taken note of the recent opinion of the Meijers Committee. He's in favour of a settlement assignment. The opinion points out that there are also regulatory orders elsewhere in the Constitution. The question is whether the comparison with these regulatory orders is correct, because they often see, for example at the High Colleges of State, the details of the tasks and powers of the institutions. This is not the case in the case of the EU, because the tasks and competences within the EU stem from EU law. In any case, therefore, there is no need for a constitutional regulation mission as proposed at present, so that matters can be settled by law if they so wish. This could be done without the Constitution giving an explicit mandate to do so. Mr Van Raak pointed out this in his first term of office. For the record, I would like to point out that an initiative proposal to that effect was brought before the Court a few years ago and that its content has not yet been taken into consideration. Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union asked whether the cabinet would be in favour of such legislation, a 'Europe law'. As said, the Cabinet does not consider legal anchoring necessary for proper information on EU matters. Article 68 of the Constitution is sufficient, in conjunction with the extensive agreements that have been made with Parliament, as I have already pointed out. If these agreements are found to be difficult or insufficient, they may be adjusted as necessary. In the cabinet's view, this guarantees a flexible system, which can respond quickly to changes that are needed as a result of developments, including in Brussels decision-making processes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the question of the Kingdom's possible withdrawal from the European Union. The original legislative proposal included a separate provision on how such a withdrawal could take place. The Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom does not consider that this is necessary. After all, if the Constitution explicitly states that the Kingdom is a member of the European Union, it follows, according to the section, that the Constitution will have to be amended before a notification of the intention to withdraw can be made to the European Union. Mr Schonis had asked the initiators whether that opinion could be shared. The question was not addressed to me, but I think it is important to stress that the RMR shares this view of the Council of State. So if Dutch membership of the European Union is to be incorporated into the Constitution, the Constitution will need to be amended again before a possible withdrawal from the European Union can take place. Such a notification in itself also requires Parliament's approval. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The RMR therefore understands the desire of the initiators to incorporate into the Constitution a provision tailored to the European Union, but does not necessarily consider such a provision necessary. But I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. The legislative mandate in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional proposal is neither necessary nor in our view appropriate to the nature of the Constitution. So the advice is to delete that provision. Mr. Chairman. The final summary concludes that if membership is incorporated into the Constitution, the Constitution should be amended before any notification of the intention to withdraw can take place. That is what I have been asked and what I have answered on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u30	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I shall first give the floor to Mr Schonis on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u31	Mr President, I would like to take a sip of water, because as it looks like, for the time being this is my last time here. I always say to my employees: you have to make a nice round story. Well, it couldn't be better than this, of course. Not only do I now say goodbye with a very nice subject; as a state-law lawyer, this subject is of course written on my mind, so that alone is absolutely beautiful. But there's also a personal note. The weekend before I became MP, when Alexander Pechtold said goodbye, it was Mr Kees Verhoeven who made it clear to me that it was going to happen: "Rutger, Alexander is going to stop. You're gonna follow him. Oh, yes, if you want, you can also be the new chairman of the political group." I say, "Well, Kees, that's a nice offer." That's the way it was back then. Anyway, Wubbo Ockels didn't get the space shuttle on the first day at NASA, so I said. So I said don't. And of course Rob appeared promptly as the new group chairman, so it's nice that the three of us in this room can say goodbye in this way. I would, of course, like to thank everyone here, as you know so well. This applies first and foremost to all the residents of the Chamber, the colleagues, the policy staff... Margot and Caroline, I know that you are looking at.. and, of course, for my closest colleagues in the group. One person in particular I would like to thank. That's someone who's had to miss me a lot in the last two years. I know you're watching, Steven. I could never have done this without you, and I really want to thank you for that. See you next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u32	Thank you, Mr. Schonis, but we're really gonna say goodbye.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u33	I know, but I'm just gonna take the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u34	That's fine. You have two minutes and you can fill it out yourself. It's really sweet to do it this way, too. I've always thought, "Oh, it would be nice if MPs would say something back at their goodbyes," but we're not getting started on that. So we'll keep it that way for now. Thank you very much, Mr. Schonis. Then I will go to Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks. I wonder what you're gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u35	It's far from my last time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u36	No, I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u37	There's gonna be a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u38	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u39	I did enjoy having a look at D66's kitchen, because I never knew that Mr Jetten's candidacy depended on whether Mr Schonis would be available. That's something you get to hear on an afternoon. Stop the presses, I'd say. I can be very brief, because I said in my first term that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is very pleased with this initiative. The group appreciates the initiators and the way in which they have defended the bill today; I did not say that in my first term, but I say that now. We wholeheartedly support the bill. There are a lot of reasons for that. Mr Jetten and Mr Verhoeven spoke about this today. For my group, the most important thing is that by incorporating the European Union into the Constitution, we make an informed choice to indicate that European cooperation as such is a core element of our state system. I had to think about that when Mr Bishop talked about the coviddebacle, or the covidfiasco, I don't know what he called it. Imagine if we had not worked together at European level on covid and all European countries would have tried to cut each other's feet off at this point. You really shouldn't think about that. I am therefore extremely pleased that even though many mistakes are being made, just as many mistakes are being made here, we are in principle choosing to tackle cross-border problems through international cooperation at European level. That has an inherent value and meaning. That is why it is so important that this is regulated in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u40	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u41	Thank you, Madam President. As I said in my first contribution, we share the principles of D66: the importance of EU membership and also the unwelcomeness of a nexit. Unfortunately, however, we do not draw the same conclusions. I shall briefly outline this on three points. Firstly, as far as we are concerned, everything that is important does not need to be automatically incorporated into the Constitution. I heard Mr Van Ojik talking about 'a core element of our state system'. I may have to look after my words a little bit, because I understand that my comment about the UN has caused almost sleepless nights. Political parties are not in our Constitution either, so when we talk about key elements of our state system... I do, however, notice some kind of misconception and disqualification of groups and bodies that are not in the Constitution. That is not right as far as we are concerned. Secondly, every time I hear the fear that there would be a proper way in which we would cancel EU membership. I just heard Mr Verhoeven say: after noon. I think fear is always a very bad counselor in politics. We have real confidence in our political institutions, so we assume that if we leave the EU, I will also look at the weather. The third element is political and democratic legitimacy. It's very important to us. I deliberately use the same words as the initiators used. Suppose there was broad, stable support to exit from the EU. This support manifests itself at Lower Parliamentary elections, after which the majority of the parties want to introduce it. At the moment it is in the Constitution, these parties should wait for new elections to be held before this retirement can eventually be ended. This requires two readings. Eventually, for example, a small minority of senators will be able to stop this. As far as we are concerned, this does not comply with democratic legitimacy. Madam President, finally. I made a commitment to Mr Bosma. In politics, too, promise makes guilt. In his first reading, he referred to our electoral programme. I also congratulated him for going through this so well. I just had to point out that it was a concept programme. I promised him that as soon as the program was ready, I would hand him a copy. So that's what I'm gonna do next. But before he starts browsing our 99 pages very enthusiastically, looking for a reference to the referendum, I would point out that this part has indeed, as I hinted a little bit, been killed by an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u43	Mr. Chairman. To begin with, I would like to thank the authors for answering the questions. Thanks also to the Minister. I would like to put my finger on three points for a brief moment. First of all, the position of the Thomasses State Commission on Article 90. He did say that the article could be extended to include 'international and European legal order', but that is not all. For the sake of completeness, the 2010 opinion also says: "EU membership is not a fundamental constitutional principle and therefore does not fit in with the general provision. (...) The inclusion of a separate provision or chapter on the EU is also not sufficiently justified by the majority of the State Commission." You'll have to keep talking with two words. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a two-thirds majority in the case of retirement and not a two-thirds majority in the case of transfer of powers and treaty commitments. I believe that we have already exchanged enough about this by way of interruption. It is clear that Mr Verhoeven cannot provide sufficient motivation in this respect. At least he won't convince us. Let us stop complaining about the anti-EU sentiment, like: you are guilty of that, you are guilty of that, because you do not support it enough. Guys, let's cut it out. Let us keep a critical eye on the EU's action and the various sections within the EU. Let's call it added value. Also, within the EU framework, let the parties concerned seek their added value and not seek it in: "A claim? Then we will make some proposals in the social field." Stay far away from there. The Treaty sets out the powers clearly and clearly. You can ask for respect for that, also from the EU's point of view. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u44	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u45	Thank you, Mr President. A bow in the direction of both proposers, starting with Mr Verhoeven, with whom I have been able to debate and laugh for ten years. I've demolished it a lot. There's still some blood left at the interrupting microphone. Sometimes I've been too hard on him. I apologize for that. People kept me standing on the street and said, "Every time that Verhoeven? Get someone of your own level." No, seriously, Kees, I'm gonna miss you. Too bad you're leaving. Good luck with the rest of your career. Thanks also to Mr Jetten. He's not in a running place either. I hope he ends up okay anyway. If I have to write you a letter of recommendation, Rob, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u46	Wait a minute. They're gonna have plenty of room to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u47	Mr. Chairman. As an old-timer, can I give some tips to the young people who washed up today in box K? The first is: if you come up with a plan, come up with an argument. Why does something have to happen? You want to put something in the Constitution. That's fine, but come up with arguments, with a basis. "EU membership has major consequences," says Mr Jetten. Yeah, okay. "It's very important." Yeah, okay. But we're not putting everything that's important in the Constitution, are we? The sun is important, like the Rhine, mathematics education or toilet paper. None of that is in the Constitution. Why would we do that? It's about state law. It's about the Constitution. We are not in elementary school second grade, where Miss Khadija calls us together on Friday afternoon: "Guys, let's all make a list of important things. Rob, do you know anything?" "Yes, Mom and Dad." "Do you remember anything, Kees?" "Yes, I have a dog. It is also important." It's about state law. What went wrong with D66? I heard Mr Verhoeven say: politicians have to take responsibility for explaining the EU's decisions. No, that's not our job. We are the House of Representatives of the States-General and must control the government. That's a lot different. The second tip I would like to give is: be secure about your concepts. There is a huge difference between the EU and Europe. Try to keep those things apart. That'll help your credibility. Three is: if you have a hidden agenda, keep it hidden, because otherwise it is no longer a hidden agenda. Things like "we must prevent a chaotic Brexit" are simply meant to prevent us from getting out at all, and we must ensure that the threshold is so high that this is impossible. That is essentially an antidemocratic desire, which by the way is the core business of D66. Mr. Chairman. It's a test balloon today. We all came to The Hague together. Global warming is getting worse and worse. We can see outside what that's like: it's 30°C, I thought, or something. And we all had to come here for this meeting. We've all emitted CO. Think of all the polar bears that have now died. Why did you have to do this? Why did we have to come here? Well, it's all pretty simple. It starts with a p and ends with "opulism." Elections are coming up and D66 would like to make a number. I get it, Volt's breathing down your necks, so I get it all. Volt. I hear that's nothing. We'll see. We shall see. So I understand all that, but otherwise, of course, this is a bit of an unnecessary meeting. It's a little unkind, but basically. Where did D66 go wrong? That's what I just said. This weekend I have read the two biographies of Hans Gruijters. That was a fascinating man. He's the real founder of D66. He is also an ideologist of D66 and was Minister under Den Uyl. Gruijters hated communists and squatters. The nuclear weapons, remember? In the early 1980s, everyone was demonstrating against it. Gruijters said just place them. Immigration? He was against it. He said, "Mingling all these cultures is gonna go wrong." He was in favour of the referendum. He was actually just some kind of PVV guy. I hate to say it, but that's the bottom line. I haven't been able to find much on the EU, except for one very nice thing. When Gruijters was Minister, Vredeling, the Minister of Defence, apparently wanted a European army. Gruijters was so opposed to that, he was going to complain to the American ambassador. So you have to consider: a minister goes to the American Embassy, our main ally, to complain about this Eurofelt proposal. So that's the founder, the ideologist of D66, who was actually just a PVV'er. What do real D66s do? They understand the initial values of D66, the initials, and they will vote PVV on March 17th. Think also of a Harry Mulisch, who was D66'er his whole life and finally converted to Wilders and the PVV. Yeah, that scares you, doesn't it? You don't know that. I've read your history. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u48	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Again, great respect from our group for the submission of the proposal. As a small country with an open economy, we have a great interest in a strong European Union for our prosperity, but also for our well-being and our security. And in a strong Europe, I say to Mr Bosma. This also applies to NATO and the United Nations. This applies to a treaty with Canada, which is very important for that. This is true of the Paris Convention on Climate Change. The same applies to good relations with the Vatican City State. But we're not putting all that in the Constitution. In fact, we have not really heard the current debate as to why this is necessarily necessary. So, in that sense, I feel a little bit with Mr Bosma that I have not heard the real argument why it should be in the Constitution. The EU is not a fundamental right either. The EU is a gift from our ancestors that we are allowed to pass on. That is why we do not have to do so in the Constitution. The CDA group thinks that you might even achieve the opposite of what you want, when you put it in the Constitution. Then the EU will also become a kind of duty to which you have to comply. Then you also get that people find that less pleasurable and therefore you create more opposition. In this sense, the CDA is more in favour of the value community, which is Europe. So do not impose, but live on! The CDA would therefore say: be, D66, CDA and PVV, as a member of the Lower House also the salt of the EU. Then be that torch on the stand on the EU wall. Be that city on that mountain, because it will always be visible. That light shines by itself, and that taste is then given by itself, without being laid down in a law. That's why the CDA won't agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u50	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I am looking at Mr Jetten to see if he needs a short response. Whatever you want. No motions have been tabled, but I hear Mr Verhoeven shouting outside the microphone that he still wants to suspend for five minutes. That is obviously necessary to find the right tone to convince Mr Bosma. I'm okay with that, because we have the next VAO at 4:45 p.m. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u51	I give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Chamber for taking part in the second term of this debate. Mr Verhoeven will comment briefly on a number of questions and comments on, among other things, the exit procedure. I would like to dwell on the importance of this legislative proposal and on why the European Union should be included in our Constitution. In particular, I am addressing Members Van Gent and Van Helvert, who speak on behalf of the VVD and the CDA. They do see the added value of European cooperation to address cross-border issues. They also see the added value of European cooperation for our prosperity, but the EU does not consider it important enough to include it in the Constitution. I think that as initiators we have explained in detail why this is the case and why the European Union is also working through our state system. Mr President, I am afraid I have provoked Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u54	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u55	Probably just to make a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u56	I'll be brief. We have not said that it is not important enough. We have just said: if something is very important, it does not automatically mean that it should be in the Constitution. That's a completely different reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u57	A justified addition by Mr Van Gent. I would also like to remind him and Mr Van Helvert of the strong letter from VNO-NCW and SMEs Netherlands, the two main business organisations. They do agree with the initiators that membership should be included in the Constitution. Why? Our prosperity and jobs depend to a large extent on European integration and cooperation. They do fear that in one night we could go ice cream in a possible departure from the European Union. Just when you include it in the Constitution and just when you anchor it that you always have to think in two steps and decide on such a nextit, you make sure that we can only proceed to such a final retirement with good preparation and a good plan. This prevents us from being careless about the interests of the Dutch business community and our prosperity. I hope that the two parties, like D66, who have the importance of entrepreneurs, will also see that this extra guarantee, that extra lock on the door, is indeed of added value. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Mr Verhoeven has the floor, especially for Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to colleagues for their input into the second term and during this debate. Perhaps a brief word in the direction of the SGP, Mr Bishop. However, I agree with him that the transfer of certain tasks to the European Union, or indeed to the European Union, is not always desirable. D66 has always made the choice of saying 'we do not, but we do appreciate it and we still attach great importance to that European Union' rather than pretending to happen every time, which is not always the case at all, and then being angry about it. That constructive attitude and that somewhat more self-conscious approach I would like to give the SGP as an advice for the coming years. Furthermore, I think Mr Jetten has said a number of important things about the importance for entrepreneurs. There was another question from Mr Bosma, who felt in his second term that the argument was inadequate. He said: there are all kinds of things that are important, but then you don't have to put them in the Constitution, because there are so many things that are important. However, we do not want this to be included in the Constitution because it is important, but because the European Union is a core element of the state system, and it is part of the Constitution. This also happens with other parts of our state system. We are so closely interwoven with the European Union, our argument is, for example, through the European regulations which directly pass through as legislation here in the Netherlands and also through the institutions to which we have delegated powers. So much for the substance. Mr. Chairman. It is also good to say something to Mr Bosma. He says: I had a nice ten-year debate with Mr Verhoeven and I demolished him. The fact that Mr Bosma lives in an alternative reality, I have just called it a fairy tale world, which we all know for ten years and we tolerate it a little bit. Every now and then he comes up with a piece of disinformation. He once pointed out to me that we were a hit on YouTube. Then I thought, for the niceness of it, let me check on YouTube to see if we are indeed a hit with our debates. I expected a balanced presentation of the situation there, but what did I find? Crazyly cut videos containing a number of sentences that Mr Bosma indeed managed to pronounce well, with my sublime answers always being completely muffled away. So it seemed that he had won a victory. But, Mr President, I would like to say that a debate is not a competition. A debate is, of course, an exchange of views, but if it were a competition, I would like to say to Mr Bosma, then I would like to compare it with a good example in these days of an ice skating competition. And whenever I came to the line with Mr Bosma for a skating race, I knew I didn't have to do anything, because it's always the case that Mr Bosma just before the finish in the last corner just flies off the bend. He just did. He had quite a nice argument and had built that up quite nicely. He raised himself a little to the one who knows how to have a debate. And what does he do? The man who denied global warming for years suddenly started talking about polar bears who would have got into trouble because we had to deal with this initiative law here! For years pretending something isn't there, and then when it comes out, all of a sudden start talking about polar bears! It is an emptiness and desperation, Mr President, which I have experienced from Mr Bosma for ten years and which I still appreciate, which is why I have actually won all our debates at 24:0. But for me it was not competitions, for me it was an exchange of thoughts and I have done so with Mr Bosma, but also with all other colleagues in the last ten years with great pleasure. Thank you. Thank you also for the support for this legislative proposal which we can look forward to from colleagues, and I wish you all a very pleasant day. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u60	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. That was very constructive. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Does she have anything to add? No? It was. Then I would like to thank Mr Jetten, Mr Verhoeven and the support of both gentlemen, Olivier Schmidt, incredibly for the work they have done. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-18.u61	I always say it in the case of MEPs' own-initiative proposals: regardless of whether they are adopted or not, it is always very special to cooperate. It is also special to defend such a proposal here and that requires a lot of work from you, especially since we do not have sufficient support here in the Lower House. In doing so, I would like to express my appreciation and respect for your commitment and for this initiative proposal, which we are going to vote on later.
