ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Collective Social Affairs and Employment Act. We need the second term from the government. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I welcome again, will give his appreciation of the five motions tabled. He may also answer a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u2	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u3	Mr President, I may also answer a single question. Let's see. Yes, I am going to answer two questions. Mr Stoffer owed me an answer. Oh, he actually had two questions. He asked: what is the extent of the problem with the fictitious ZW claims? We've been trying to check that out. It's what I suspected. The size is not known to us, nor is it known to the UWV. It is not known in how many cases employers claim sickness benefits while it can no longer be paid. That's not gonna be registered. Implementingly, this assessment is now difficult for UWV. That gives rise to a change in the law. UWV has to do with the fact that employers are still making claims about workers who have become ill in the distant past, sometimes seven years ago. In the implementation there is this fuss; you can imagine that. These applications do increase, says UWV, while in all cases there is not even a real right to a no-risk. That's an administrative burden on the UWV. Mr Stoffer also asked for the following. Is it insightful who has the right to sickness benefit? Because if it's insightful, can't you solve the problem by allowing the right to sickness benefit to lead instead of making it a starting point whether or not to claim it in good time? Is that possible, or does the Secretary of State see it differently? It is true that UWV has an insight into the situation or is actually entitled to sickness benefit. This part of the law is about employers paying wages to the sick worker after the onset of the illness and subsequently claiming fictitious sickness benefits to UWV. Sick notification is therefore not made with UWV but with the employer. As a result, the right to sickness benefit is not yet known at the UWV and cannot be leading. The sickness benefit itself can therefore no longer be paid. Then to Mrs Maatoug's question: why was it chosen not to grant a child-related budget if the child does not have a lawful stay? And how many kids is this about? How many children are not legally resident here is a complicated number. We don't know that, because, of course, there are a lot of children who are illegal. So those are numbers we don't know. We do know that with this adjustment of the child-related budget we reach 950 children who now have no child-related budget. The essence of the linking principle in the General Law income-dependent schemes, the Awir, is that no supplements are provided to people without a right of residence. That's part of the foreign policy. Providing income support to a parent and child who are not legally resident is not appropriate. Dutch children and children with a right of residence should not be penalised by the absence of a partner's residence status. Mrs Maatoug would like to ask me a question, but I will first say something on this point. This is a scheme which is good news for 950 children, but which is also complex in its implementation. It is important to mention that here. This also emerges from different execution tests. My colleague from the Tax Administration, Mrs Van Huffelen, has also recently given me the signal that there is a complication in implementation. We're still having that conversation. We will also use the coming period to see what is possible. I still expect to enter into force on 1 January 2022, because we all believe that these 950 children can also be helped. So we can move forward with this collectible law, but I do want to name it, because if it is not possible to resolve that problem in time, we should have that article put into effect later by royal decision. The result is that these 950 children will not be helped until later. That is not our objective, of course, but I would point out that complexity in implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u4	I am glad that we have still received this answer, because we have also asked a question in the written input that the linking principle in the Awir can be detrimental to children. That was confirmed, but that happened in a very short sentence. That happened today, too. I understand that there is a lot on the agenda, but this is an important point. I also understand that it's difficult, but I'm still asking for an assessment. The reason I am asking is that I came across the fundamental point that it is still detrimental to children who live in the Netherlands. I am very pleased with this step, but there are still children for whom it is detrimental. I also refer to the implementation consequences. In the underlying notes and in the documents it was stated that the change made it more complex. It becomes more complex because the nationality of the children will be maintained. That's what I read in the pieces. In addition to the point of principle, on which I found the answers rather brief, the GroenLinks Group thought: wait a minute, the Secretary of State makes it complicated itself. Why don't we just say those kids are already here? It is incredibly complicated for implementation, as the Secretary of State says very clearly. Let's get that new piece of review, which makes the law more complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u5	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u6	In the Awir is the linking principle, which assumes that you are not entitled to a supplement if you are not legally resident here. If we let that go, it would have consequences in more areas. It is a political weighting, by the way, whether you would like it to be. I wouldn't want that, by the way. It's hard to explain that you'd get all kinds of this kind of supplement if you don't stay here legally. But the issue of implementation is justified. By the way, we're going to do this now for those 950 kids. It's a bit different how big the group is that doesn't deserve it, what the estimates are now. I imagine that group will get bigger if you don't stick to it. People are trying to get that child-related budget too. That is why it is especially important to arrange it neatly in the execution. Where a child is legally resident here, you get a child-related budget. Where that's not the case, you don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u7	This is why it is a pity that the answer was so brief and why I am standing here at the microphone. Also the reports of the Children's Ombudsman are a reason why this is in there. It says that these costs are increasing and that these children are already there, exist and live in the Netherlands. That's why we're doing this right now; I'm complimenting you on that. I would find it very important to have an estimate of the number of children, precisely because the Secretary of State says so well that it is becoming more complex. If we then know the order of magnitude in which that is, I would like to weigh that up, also in view of the words of the Secretary of State on the complexity and importance of this. I also understand your colleagues from the Treasury. Their position was also very good in the underlying note. Then let's not make the world extra complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u8	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u9	Would the Secretary of State like to make an assessment of the number of children that would be subject to the additional check on nationality? That's the question and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u10	No, that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u11	These assessments have been made and range between 50 and 450, as we have seen in the execution tests. There are differences in what we expect. That's not exactly one-to-one to say. What we are doing here, of course, is that one legally resident parent and one legally resident child are entitled to this. That is not the case now, and we will take care of it. But if the follow-up step is, as Mrs Maatoug says, that we are also giving children who are not legally resident here the possibility of a child-related budget, I say that is not what we are dealing with here in the collectible law. I would also say that this is not desirable. That is why I am also saying that we must take good care of this in the implementation. I would therefore like to make a reservation: if we are not in a position to do this properly in the implementation process, we may have to allow this to come into effect later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u12	I will allow you one more interruption, but we are rather out of time and there is still a lot on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u13	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing this interruption. I had an amendment and it is important for me to be able to do so. I'd like to do that carefully. I also understand that a question can sometimes be missed; so thank you for allowing this. My question is whether the Secretary of State would like to undertake to see whether it is possible and what the implementation consequences would be if we were not to maintain this and not look at nationality. 'Cause I saw there's a meeting, including with the Treasury Department. If the answer to that question is no, GroenLinks will table an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u14	As far as I am concerned, Mrs Maatoug can add to this, because I do not quite understand what she would have liked to have promised. After all, we did a performance test. It was also here with the pieces. It says it's feasible, but it's complex. There is then an expectation "made" of the number of children. These expectations vary. That is what the Tax Administration has indicated: then we do not know whether we can make it feasible. Mrs Van Huffelen wrote this to us on behalf of the Tax Administration. On the other hand, the execution test shows that it can be done. So we're looking at what this means for the execution, because the execution test says something different than the insight that came from the Tax Administration. So it's these estimates. We're gonna have a conversation to see what this means and how we could fix this. That is why I make that reservation here, because we have to make it feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u15	Yet another interruption by Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u16	In fact, I would like to add a few more words to this. Do I understand correctly that the linking principle has been abandoned in the case of the rent and the child allowance? And why couldn't that apply here? I mean the principle of considering the status of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u17	Child benefit is something other than fees. Sorry, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u18	Yes, you talked through Mrs. Van Beuker, but she was already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u19	I tried to formulate my question correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u20	For the surcharges, Awir applies. Supplements are subject to the linking principle with the Awir. This does not apply to family allowances; it works differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u21	So we're talking about the rent allowance. I am now asking why it is being looked at here, in relation to the child-related budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u22	Because here the step is made towards lawful residence, where one parent and one child are legally resident here. If a child is not legally resident, we would say, according to the linking principle, that you are not entitled to a child-related budget. This should also work out in implementation, but there is a risk that this will not work in implementation and that illegal children will therefore receive a child-related budget. I find that undesirable, and that is why I am highlighting that point here, because it must be feasible in the implementation, as we have referred to in the collectible law. If it is not feasible according to that intention, we will have to go back to the Chamber and at least explain it. For the time being, I assume that we can achieve this in the implementation. If it turns out that this is not the case, I have now indicated here that we are making a reservation on this before the entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u23	Good. The Secretary of State continues his speech. No, Mrs Maatoug would like to explain her amendment, because the Secretary of State asked a question about it. But that hasn't been filed yet, has it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u24	No, I want to wait for the answer. That's how it's supposed to be in a debate, right? Yes. I'll be very brief, because we all want to move on. As I understand it now, we do not have a linking principle in the case of surcharges, as Mr D66 has said neatly. They didn't choose that. However, the answer given by the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, was very clear at the end. It was for a fundamental reason, namely that children who live in the Netherlands but do not have a residence permit should not receive a child-related budget. Therefore, it is chosen to do extra complexity in enforcement and implementation in order to make this possible. That is a political weighting. We are therefore tabling the amendment. And so I understand that our amendment is a reduction of complexity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u25	But you have not yet explained what the amendment itself is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u26	I'm so glad you're giving me this opportunity, Mr. President. So what the amendment regulates is that we are not going to test these children's residence permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u27	So illegal children get a child-related budget. Well, I'd find that very undesirable, and that's why I'm making a reservation. Because it's exactly the other way around. With the collective law, we make it possible for one parent to legally reside here and the child to be legally resident here, to receive a child-related budget. It is the essence of the linking principle in the General Law income-dependent schemes, the Awir, that no supplements are provided to people without a right of residence. If that is called into question by GroenLinks, whatever the wording of the amendment, I must strongly advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u28	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u29	I shall go to the motions because I can see Mr Van Dijk being impatient. The first motion, in part No. 17, by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It asks the government to introduce the indexation rules of the Future Pensions Act in 2022. I need some more words for that, because we have exchanged a lot of things about it. Many funds have not been able to index in a long time. I understand the call made by Mr Van Dijk and by pensioners for earlier indexing to be possible. They want that very much. I understand that call after all these years. In fact, this is why we are going to change the pension system. We are also doing this because, on the other hand, young people are uncertain whether they will receive a pension at all later. For both groups we are therefore trying to take new steps in the system. I would therefore also like to stress that this Future Pensions Act is very important for this. We're gonna have to deal with them in the Chamber, too. The motion now asks me to send an impact to the Chamber on how, with the proper safeguards, you can make that indexation possible in 2022. I am prepared to work this out with the right safeguards, but I have to say a few things. In fact, I think that the linking of the Future Pensions Act with the indexing rules from the transition ftk is important, both from the parliamentary process and the parliamentary assessment, and from the idea that funds have the intention to move to the new system, but also from the safeguards that the Future Pensions Act has with regard to the underpinning and understanding of those effects. These things I see in the motion. The motion allows pension funds to increase existing pension entitlements and entitlements in the run-up to the new system in 2022 if the financial situation so permits. The motion asks the government to send an effect to the Chamber in the short term to settle this. I think it is important for the Chamber to have access to both documents, i.e. both the law and this decision, an AMvB, i.e. the law and the adapted indexing rules. In order to be able to monitor the consistency between the adjusted indexing rules and the WTP, the Future Pensions Act, I would like to send the effect mentioned in the motion to the Chamber at the same time as submitting the Future Pensions Bill. I am sending a separate AMvB with this possibility for funds to the Chamber. We also need this time to make a good AMvB, which includes the safeguards that Mr Gijs van Dijk is asking for in that motion. Those safeguards are also included in the Future Pensions Act, so they are consistent. That they agree is coherence, and the decision to use the AMvB is then up to the pension funds. They must also justify that use. I can, of course, imagine that they will also consider the transition to the new system in their consideration. But the direct link has been dealt with in a different way, I would like to say, and with guarantees. The amended rules may then enter into force by mid 2022. This can be indexed in 2022 if the financial position allows, and also in the first months of next year. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity briefly to emphasise that the challenge we face, the achievement of this new pension system, is enormous. That's what we're gonna have to do with each other, and we're gonna have to hang in there. I stress the importance of the pension agreement. We need a new system for young and old, a system that offers more perspective on a purchasing power pension. This means that pensions move more directly with the development of the economy, but also that pensions are more transparent and personal, and better in line with developments in society and the labour market. The strengths of the current system, such as solidarity and collectivity, remain. Mr. Chairman. Thus, these rules can come to the Chamber in a separate AMvB with the usual process involved, at the same time as the Future Pensions Act, so that this can be considered in conjunction. With that, I could give the motion judgment Chamber. I do, however, have the question to Mr Gijs van Dijk whether he is prepared to withdraw that amendment because it really does have a different purpose and does not have those guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u30	I thought it was just as good an amendment, so that would be a shame. But I do understand what the Secretary of State says. I just want it to be very precise. First, before this debate, the cabinet said that we want to think about the indexing rules, but we want to link them to the contract treatment. What we are saying now and what has been put forward by several parties is that there must be coherence and guarantees, but that the indexation can be brought forward. This can be done by means of an AMvB which also goes through the Chambers neatly parliamentaryly. But as far as I am concerned, and as far as we are concerned here in the Chamber, that goes faster than the whole pension contract treatment, which will obviously take a lot of time here. I think it is important that the funds, which are currently or possibly next year, should also be good enough for them to start indexing from mid 2022 and possibly from 1 January 2022. Let me get this straight. Because if it is, then the motion is enough and I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u31	Thank you for the commitment to withdraw that amendment. Mr Gijs van Dijk's interpretation is correct. So we're going to make an AMvB, which goes to the Chamber at the same time as the Future Pensions Act. We can then deal with them faster, of course, because that is not a very heavy thing. This can take place by mid 2022, and the funds will be able to make use of it, even from January onwards. This will avoid additional uncertainty for pensioners, but we will also create guarantees for the future, so that those who take that step will have this opportunity, but if you do not take that step in the end, because we do not accept the law here or those funds do not, then of course you as a fund will have the responsibility to restore that balance. Those guarantees are part of it. On that condition, we can make an opportunity and I am prepared to give an impact on the proposal and to return to the Chamber with it, similar to the Future Pensions Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u32	Very good. I would just like to point out that the amendment to item No. 13 shall be repealed. If I remember correctly, that also means that it has to be sent by e-mail, because the amendment has already been tabled in the process. But that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u33	I'm telling you, haha. No, I think that's totally fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u34	Mr Smals has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u35	I do not think we can emphasise enough that we need to go through the process of creating a whole new pension system very carefully. We need to be properly informed about this. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State to change the AMvB, which apparently already has an idea of what it is going to look like, with so much care and, for example, to have it examined by the Council of State in the process, bearing in mind, of course, that we also want this indexation to take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u36	We will. I think it would be wise to ask the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u37	Fine. Then we move on to the motion in part no. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u38	The motion in part No. Mrs Maatoug's 18 concerns the automatic remission of outstanding residual debts without intent or gross debt for claims that in the past could not be included in the debt settlement with final discharge by a co-operation ban for municipalities, UWV and SVB. The limitation of the cooperation ban gives a power to municipalities, UWV and SVB to participate in a debt settlement with final discharge. That's what I just said. This does not create a duty for the implementation of the measure. That is also what we were talking about as well as not a right for the interested party, because this requires an individual assessment. The starting point is that an unduly paid benefit is recovered. An automatic generic waiver, as proposed in the motion, does not relate to this principle or to the proposed amendment. In addition, if this is adopted, we should also check in the implementation whether it is feasible at all. Because municipalities, SVB and UWV probably don't have enough of the group in the motion right now. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u39	And we were so clear in the debate! I understood the Secretary of State clearly, namely that generic can't be done of its own motion. But it is possible to do so on its own initiative with regard to these cases. So I don't really understand the opinion's conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u40	It does not create an obligation for implementation nor a right for the interested party. It is therefore always an individual assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u41	But at the moment when this is the case, there can still be a choice of their own... In those cases, isn't this the case? I honestly don't understand why this motion is being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u42	We see it as an individual assessment. There's a power to make it. If you go up there and say that this should be the generic starting point, then that does not relate to the character of specific situations, I think, nor to how we have now regulated it in the collectible law. In addition, we consider risks... Actually, we're wondering if it's even feasible. That's also quite relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u43	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u44	It can't be both true. Or it is: in these cases, we can say of our own motion that it is the intention. Then this motion can simply be made, because then that is the call to the implementing authorities. Or it is: no, it can't and not generic, but specifically in those cases. Then I don't really understand how to read the Secretary of State's answers, because both these things can't be true at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u45	It's an individual assessment. A limitation of the prohibition of cooperation therefore gives the municipalities, UWV and SVB the power to participate in that debt relief scheme, including with final discharge. But this does not create a duty. It's an authority to do that. It is not a duty for the implementation to do so. Nor is it an automatic right of the interested party. But that is what Mrs Maatoug is asking in the motion. I'm gonna have to advise against that. That is quite apart from the fact that the implementation may not be generic, because there is no view of that group. One can, of course, make an individual assessment, because then you have an individual view of someone who is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u46	Mr. Chairman. I have a question for you. I really appreciate you just giving me a chance to ask me another question. I have an operative here. It says: 'calls on the government to urge the implementing organisations to grant ex-post remission in these cases'. That's what it says "to insist." So that's not a duty. My motion is misinterpreted. I'll test the argument. Yes, if words don't matter anymore and if what I'm saying and what's in my motion don't matter anymore, I don't understand what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u47	You can ask me that question, but I do not go into it in substance. The Secretary of State has answered three times. He interprets the operative part in his own way. I want to give him one more chance to change that, but I don't think he will. That's up to the Secretary of State. I am not going to make substantive judgments on dictata and on whether or not the ruling person's answer meets the question that has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u48	But, Chairman,... But I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u49	No, Mrs Maatoug, the floor is now for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u50	In the "in opinion" there is that genericity, so that they also deserve forgiveness and should not apply again for a debt settlement. We say that there is a power to make that possible, but that is always an individual assessment. In fact, this ignores the individual assessment. We regard that as unwise. That's why the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u51	The Secretary of State continues his argument with the motion in part No. 19. It was tabled by Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u52	That motion deals with the issue of the WGA advance payments and requests that it be sent to the Council of State because it was part of the letter of amendment. This is what I'm telling you. This is only done in the case of major changes, in accordance with the rules applicable to the legislator. This does not include this change. We switched that, too. Furthermore, I say to Mr Stoffer that this proposal cannot be delayed. So it's undesirable to slow that down. As I indicated in my introduction, timely entry into force is important and relevant for implementation and people in the country. Think of the debt settlement we mentioned. Having said that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u53	The motion in part No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u54	The motion in part No. Mr De Jong asked that the nationality requirement should not be deleted from the AOW. Maybe there's a little more explanation for that. I'm sorry I didn't answer this question in the first term. Mr De Jong also asked this question. It's very good that he's just going to table a motion on it. Only the transitional right of the AOW still applies to a nationality requirement. That is not normally the case, because it is a question of residence. It dates back to 1957. The right of transition is with people who didn't have an AOW at the time. This is a group that is getting older and will die out. The current AOW has no nationality requirement. Insured for the AOW is the person resident or employed in the Netherlands. Only a small number of persons are currently not eligible for the transitional scheme on the basis of the nationality requirement and receive a reduction in the AOW pension. That is a group that concerns people around 500, but less and less. We find it undesirable to maintain that distinction for this small group even longer. That is also complicated in the implementation, but that aside. It must also be because of international treaties: there must be a need to hold on to that. There is no need for this increasingly narrowing group. That is why we do not recommend Mr De Jong's amendment. So this is a very small group of people who have lived in the Netherlands for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u55	The motion has been dissuaded. You said "the amendment."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u56	Motion, excuse. Thank you. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 21 by Mr De Jong on the possibility of indexing in 2022 and the adjustment of the calculation rate. I must advise against that motion for the same reasons that I leave Mr Van Dijk's motion for a resolution to the Chamber. Mr De Jong's motion does not contain the guarantees and conditions that Mr Van Dijk's motion does have. In my assessment of Mr Van Dijk's amendment and motion, I went into it in detail. The adjustment of the interest rate is a subject that has been mentioned more often in this Chamber. There are major differences between the current and the new systems. In the current system, pension entitlements are built up into a collective asset. The new scheme provides contributions for pension assets. Those technical differences are also found in the calculation rate and projection efficiency. It is not possible to just put this part of the new set of rules on current pensions. With that, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u57	Okay. In my view, then, we have come to the end of the government's term and also at the end of the debate on this collectible law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-20.u58	The amendments and motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I'm gonna suspend for two minutes so we can have a change. We're moving on to the defense of an initiative law. I'd like to give everyone a chance to change their seats.
