ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on a school that forces students to speak out for their orientation. A small suggestion perhaps to the participants to stop their conversations now and just sit down. Mr. Van Meenen, you too. A warm word of welcome to Minister Slob, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. Thank you for joining us. We have fourteen speakers from the Chamber and the first speaker is Mr Van Meenen from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Freedom of education is not a free pass for bad or unsafe education. For years we have heard of abuses: allegations of sexual abuse at a Jewish school, girls at an Islamic school who are treated differently for period and students who were forced to come out of a reformatory school. As a result, D66 has spoken to lhbtiq+ students who have been in a reformatory school and who have felt unsafe for years, students whose parents have had to sign identity statements, who have heard that gays who are practicing must go to prison or that being gay is a mental illness. You have to imagine hearing that when you're 12, 13 or 14 years old and you know deep down that that's about you. These students told us about more poignant situations. A lack of sexual education, for example, the feeling of being all alone, harassment of fellow students... this is the Week against the Pests... and teachers who are aware of it but do nothing with it or even have to laugh about it. D66 finds that unacceptable. A school hears, no, a school must be a safe haven for every student instead of a place where you cycle with a stone in your stomach, a place where there is good and safe education. It is no secret that D66 is in favour of a renewal of Article 23, for example through the obligation to accept it, because Article 23 must also go along with its time. Let me call it the evolution of Article 23. Plants, animals, humans have to adapt to survive and those who adapt best survive. And that is the way it should be with Article 23. That will have to adapt to continue. The current Article 23 creates the climate for this kind of abuses. Constitutional freedom seems unlimited, but it is not constitutional freedoms. I cherish our freedoms. We must not abolish them if they are abused, but we must preserve them by not tolerate abuse. That will also work preventively. Then I come to the role of inspection. It plays an important role in good and safe education. The inspection can take place if a school does not comply with this and I am therefore also positive that the inspection has filed a report with the Public Prosecutor's Office against the Gomarus. As far as D66 is concerned, this should become standard practice when a school for providing safe education fails. Is the Minister prepared to raise this kind of matter to a standard? I would also like to ask the Minister about this particular school. We have received signals that the school mentors instructed to speak to students who were known to have spoken with the inspection or that they were going to do so. If that's true, I'd be very sorry. Does the Minister recognise these signals and, if so, how did this affect the investigation and, if no, is he prepared to get to the bottom of this? D66 therefore believes that from now on the inspection should always work on individual reports and signals so that students and former pupils feel genuinely heard and feel that they have a place where they can knock. It's the only way we're gonna make a difference. I'd like a response. In addition, D66 received a motion in 2019 on more unannounced inspection visits with Kamerwide support. That would have been very appropriate here, too. Then we would have found out much sooner what's going on here. I'd like to hear from the Minister about this. My final question is: can directors of schools where this kind of abuses occur systematically remain in office, according to the Minister? Finally, I call on the Minister to make every effort, but also every effort, to ensure good and safe education at every school in the Netherlands, so that every student has a carefree school time, regardless of orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u3	Perfect within time. Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. Of course, the latter can only be embraced. I have a question for colleague Van Meenen. He criticises the functioning of Article 23, as enshrined in the Constitution, the freedom of education, as if these extremely nasty and painful incidents were connected with it. But is Mr Van Meenen familiar with the research that was published last week from the universities of Groningen and Utrecht, a study among 30,000 students, where a wide range of all kinds of denominational schools pass through the review and in which quite different, very far-reaching and far-reaching figures are presented? Where the report of the inspection around the Gomarus could not find one pupil who, at the time when the inspection carried out that study with negative experiences at school, was in trouble, a quarter to a third of all pupils with different sexual orientation in all those other schools did, and did ride a stone in the stomach to school. Is Mr Van Meenen familiar with that? If so, will the appeal for revision of Article 23 of the Constitution not stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u5	No, every student in the Netherlands loves me and I want every student in the Netherlands to be safe. Of course, insecurity is not limited at all to schools, for example from Mr Bishop's supporters. But we are dealing here, as the Gomarus has shown, with really extreme situations, and I have mentioned a few other examples. The situation where if you suspect that you are a student, for example, homosexual, on the Gomarus in this case, then you are held against your will, that your parents are called and that you are forced to come out of the closet on the spot. That's crazy, isn't it? That must be combated. My point is that, in my view, the relationship with Article 23 is still separate from what I think the inspection should do: Article 23 creates the situation in which it seems that there is an unbridled freedom to do this kind of thing. That has to end here and now, and that is why we have to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u6	I'll do the interruptions in half. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr President, very well; that can keep the debate going. I still do not understand why that can be linked to Article 23. Think away Article 23, which cannot exclude such incidents. And that it's an annoying incident, the school itself admits it. This is not a point of departure to question Article 23, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u8	Yes, it is. In fact, I just did, so it turns out. But I'll explain it again. This isn't about incidents, this is about a pattern, this is about policy. It's an active policy at a school like this. And again, I say two things. I want the role of inspection strengthened. We have experienced more often that the inspection only responds to patterns, not individual cases. This creates enormous uncertainty and insecurity for students. I want to change that. But that's curative, I'll say. Then we've already found that it is. But I also want to work on the preventive side. It is my belief that Article 23 offers too much room for...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u9	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr President, I am very sorry, but I would like to finish my sentence: for the idea that all this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u11	I thank Mr Van Meenen for his speech. I also saw his article today in our esteemed Dutch daily. He also called for the modernisation of Article 23 to ensure acceptance and greater equality of opportunity in education. He also emphasized, in particular, that schools should not hide behind Article 23. Can we, as the Labour Party, therefore count on his support for the bill for modernisation, which we have just had in the consultation? In my view, this proposal also seeks to achieve all the points he raises. Can the Labour Party count on D66's support for that change of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u12	As far as I have seen the bill, these are all points that are also included in our electoral programme. That fits in, so I wouldn't know why that wouldn't be the case. I always say that a constitutional change doesn't help children. It'll take a long time. For starters, we never know how it's gonna end after about eight years. So we must always have lower legislation to ensure that something is actually going to happen. That is why I am calling, for example, for the role of inspection to be strengthened. There are more things in the Constitution that are not respected by all Dutch people all day. We can't check it either. So that's complicated, but it has my deep sympathy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u13	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u14	It is good to hear this from Mr Van Meenen. I would also prefer, for example, that it should be in a government agreement, and that we should be able to speed this up much faster. But at least I invite Mr Van Meenen to participate and possibly submit it. Modernisation can very well use the support of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you very much. We shall see how the coalition agreement relates to that. I can at least say that it is in the broad agreement we have written with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u16	Let me begin by saying that what happened in Mr Van Meenen's examples of the Gomarus must be strongly rejected and that it is terrible that young people have had to go through it. I would like to make two points to Mr Van Meenen, which I would like to make out of his speech. First of all, he says there's a pattern. He certainly starts his input by mentioning a number of events and sticking them to the whole of special education. Does Mr Van Meenen realize that he is wronging all those schools in particular which are doing just fine? Then there is the second point. Mr Van Meenen indicated that Article 23 caused this. I would like to ask him if this is not caused by people who do not comply with the law. Under the current Law on Primary Education, governments need to create a social environment, they need to do something about safety, they need to do something about discrimination. It is not therefore Article 23, it is caused by those people who do not comply with the current law. You've got to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u17	First of all, I'm not wiping everyone and everything together. If you have read the article in the Dutch daily, you have seen that I am a fan of constitutional freedoms, including Article 23, but not where they are abused. That's not everywhere, that's certainly not everywhere. I've worked in education all my life, including in special schools, and I know what beautiful things happen there. I am not going to let you say that I am just shaving the whole special education here. That's just not right. I just don't want us to have to fix it at the back, once this is happening at a school, and see what we can do. I want us to stop this from happening out front. On that front lies the core for me... On that front it affects Article 23 because the article is apparently interpreted in a number of schools in such a way that it leads to some sort of immeasurable freedom to do and leave whatever they want. And that's not it. If we continue to do so, if we do not want to renew Article 23 and adapt it to this time, it will die. That is not what I want and that is why I say: adapt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u18	It may be Mr Van Meenen's intention not to generalize, but he did speak in his contribution about a pattern in particular education that this happens. I would like to give Mr Van Meenen those words which are not appropriate. Mr Van Meenen says that Article 23 creates a climate. Again, you can put in a whole legal procedure to amend the Constitution, but I think the easiest way is to ensure that people comply with the current law and that people are aware of the current law. That is the fastest way and not such a constitutional change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u19	I did not say at all that this is a pattern in particular education. I put it against the word Mr Bishop used, namely that this is an incident. This hasn't been an incident on the Gomarus. This has been a pattern on the Gomarus. In fact, it was just the policy. That's what I turned against each other. I would like to make it quite clear once again: it is not the case that this is a pattern in particular education. I'm glad you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u20	Thank you for the answer, because of course it is not a pattern within the whole special education to bully, belittle or hurt children. That's what happened here. There's no misunderstanding about that. But how can you link this to Article 23? There is no one at that school who says: well, the inspection here has a destructive report, I'm not going to do anything about it because I'm allowed to do this; look at Article 23: I have the freedom to bully children. They don't say. In fact, they're being dealt with by the law. The school now recognises that there are problems and deals with them. I can't put it better than Mr van DENK. Who links this to Article 23 except you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u21	Except Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u22	I don't vouch for the chairman, but we'll see about that later. It would be nice if the school board said, "There's a report, and now we're not gonna do anything." No, I hope they're gonna do something now. But in the meantime, for many years, students at this school have suffered a great deal. I've spoken to some of them. I want us not only to observe and intervene afterwards, years later. No, I want us to keep this from happening out front. And then there will have to be a sense in schools like this that Article 23 does not give the room that they apparently thought they could take. That is where, as far as I am concerned, it concerns Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u23	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u24	In my opinion, there is no one in the whole of the Netherlands who thinks that Article 23 offers room to bully children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u25	Apparently so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u26	No. No. There is no one to say that, no one to find it, and no one to link it, except Mr Van Meenen. I really think all children should be safe. We totally agree that these laws are aimed at this. I think we agree with the content, but I do not see the link.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u27	We're actually having two discussions here. We have the discussion about the very painful situation at the school and it passes seamlessly into the discussion on Article 23. I understand that. We have had this discussion in recent years, often as a result of incidents. We then hear Mr Van Meenen saying: Article 23 needs to be modernised. I agree with that in itself, but I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen: what are we really going to do in the coming years? Otherwise, every year, following an incident, we stand here saying to each other: Article 23 needs to be modernised. Will Mr Van Meenen, together with a large part of this Chamber, really take steps in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u28	It has proved to be a tough subject. Anyone who walks around here a little longer knows that. To give an example, there was an initiative law of the Labour Party in 2005. Our parties were underneath that, at least mine was. It introduced the obligation of acceptance, not just for the schools we are talking about here, but for that matter aside. There is now a new initiative by the Labour Party in this area. But over and over again it has been shown that there was no, little or at least insufficient room in the political constellation to do so. In the past period, when we were still talking to the VVD, we have written texts about this. For us, that is a basis for the new coalition agreement, so we will see how that works. But of course, I'm not standing here doing nothing. There's nothing I'd rather do to prevent this from happening out front. I have another, much more practical line, namely that the inspection will also respond to individual reports. We've had a lot of trouble in places that doesn't happen. That must be done now, especially in the case of reports of this kind, because then we can do something preventively. So there are two tracks: Article 23 and now very quickly and practically change things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u29	That political space is very often not there, because then one of the initiators is in a coalition and it is not allowed by that coalition. That is actually the common thread that runs through the discussion of Article 23. Most of the Chamber says something must be done. Every year an incident comes along and we talk about it again. That is when this debate begins again. In the end, we have been dealing for a long time with own-initiative laws that are not submitted. So my question to Mr Van Meenen is: how important is this subject going to be for your party in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u30	Very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u31	Very good. Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union. Then I would like to move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u32	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. As a new temporary spokesperson for Education, I have been listening for a while to feel what Mr Van Meenen thinks should be addressed. When I listen and look at the articles, I think we both care most about the fate of those Ihbti students who do not know themselves safely, at any school. We are now discussing a matter which is extremely painful, which we are sure has not gone well. When we look through the country, we see that one in four Ihbti students, wherever they are. Frankly, I still find it very complicated to understand how Mr Van Meenen's solutions for so many pupils will mean that they are safe. I think we have a very different problem in our society, our cities and at this school where this happened. Shouldn't we be having that conversation much more, including with school boards, teachers and teaching staff? That research shows precisely that the teaching staff is part of that. How are we a safe school for these students?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u33	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u34	I would very much like to hear that Mr Van Meenen is addressing that point. It is therefore a question of quality rather than freedom of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u35	Yeah, but we do. For example, we have recently dealt with the Citizenship in Education Act, in which, with great resistance from among others your party, I beg your pardon, chairman; let me say: the Christian Union has nevertheless decided to make this subject a part of citizenship: sexual education, emancipation, diversity, etc., etc. This helps, because we are forcing the conversation to take place in schools. I would also add that this is not just about schools with a religious basis. Freedom of education applies to all schools. All schools must realise that freedom is not an infinite freedom and that it must be restricted where it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u36	Rounding up, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u37	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But here my party is being wronged, because if there is one party that has said that Article 1 alone should also contain orientation, because all people absolutely must not be discriminated against for that reason, then it is mine. And if there has been one party that has said that we have to work with citizenship, then it is the Christian Union. So I do not think that is right and I want to reject it first. Just now that we have made these efforts together, including the old coalition as it existed at the time, and we have found each other in the search for ways to ensure that lhbti students know themselves safely, I also think it is important that the schools, Mr Van Meenen, and I both insist that they deliver good quality products as well, rather than putting the inspection on top again or modernising Article 23. I would like to see a little more joy over the legislation that we have adopted together and count a little more blessings on getting together in the equality of all pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u38	But I am also very pleased that we have jointly adopted the Citizenship Act. What I am less pleased about is that we have not found each other on the amendment of the SP and the Labour Party, I believe. We were under that; I don't remember, but at least we supported it. This was about whether this subject, sexual education, diversity, etc., was part of it. We didn't find each other in there. I'm sad about that again. I hope, however, that Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union also believes that we should not waste any resources to ensure that schools are as safe as possible. I have a feeling that she would rather not use some of those resources for a while. But we're gonna see it in the coming time. We will probably speak again on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u39	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Simons from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my speech, I would also like to thank my fellow chamber members who have made it possible for me to be put forward on the list of speakers, because I will have to go to a committee debate on our Kingdom relations later. Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate today on one poignant example, yet another, where being yourself means that you are not really safe. It is understandable that everyone in this Chamber will find something about it and want to say all sorts of things about it, but I have to get something off my chest first. Because a week ago, many people dealing with these kinds of situations of incomprehension, hopelessness and insecurity had to look at the way in this house was trying to completely destroy complete identities through the most disgusting rhetoric. The naming and protection of different gender identities and sexual orientations has been described as madness and "a totalitarian woke ideology" behind this microphone. While lhbtiqa+-young people are structurally more often confronted with bullying and violence, while the poignant suicide rates are unfortunately not lying because of this fact, at the beginning of the General Political Reviews, attempts were made to destroy their right to exist with speeches that should not in any way belong or be given a place in this parliament. I reject that. I'm judging that. I would remind all of the great responsibility that we, as representatives of the people, bear with us. What is said here during debates is working through in society. This applies to the hatred of Muslims, who has been expertly normalized here over the years, almost ironically, through the lhbtiqa+ community among others. It is only used as a doll when Muslims can be framed as the great enemy. This applies to the normalization of fake news, and that certainly applies to how we talk about and deal with important issues such as this. Mr. Chairman. Words matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u41	It's like I'm hearing Mr. El Yassini from the VVD talking. He always blames me for only defending the Ihbti community to bash Muslims. That is what you are saying today, Mrs Simons, through the President. I'm throwing that far from me. That whole group, the whole Ihbti group, is in safe hands with us. The strange thing is that as a party we do not distinguish between man or woman, lhbti or heterosexual or in terms of origin, colour or gender. It doesn't matter to us. We are still more or less blind to that. The only point is what my party leader has said and that I am constantly making. That woke culture, including those gender cookies, which have been distributed here with 150 pieces, I call it dram cookies, which are bothering children who are not yet ready and who are faced with everything that is going on in that world at an accelerated rate by woke teachers, we reject that culture and we stand for it. Then you can be very indignant, but we do not reject those people. You'll try to make that frame here. You're not gonna succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u42	It's nice to see that if you don't name names, don't mention party names, some people feel addressed. I did not talk about this Member personally, nor did I mention his party name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u43	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u44	But he feels so addressed that he has to defend here that he was not attacked. I like to see that. It also proves my point. It's a wonderful interruption, because how can you say in one interruption that you have nothing, as far as you can already do, against the identity of someone else who is simply there, no matter what anyone thinks of it, and at the same time deliver in one and the same sentence on cookies that have been distributed? I think it's a wonderful interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u45	Mr Beertema, concluding, brief, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u46	I think it's a very wonderful answer. The fact is that you are standing here talking about a party chairman who has said so. Can't I conclude that that was Geert Wilders? What are you doing? How stupid do you think I am?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u47	Let me put it this way: at least this Member feels addressed. I am glad for that, because last week we listened to a party chairman who drew every conceivable derogatory cliché out of the closet about exactly those people we are debating today. The people on whom we all agree that they too are just human, have the right to be who they are and feel safe within a school environment, where they still spend so many hours of their mostly young lives. We can express indignation about this, but I think it is certainly not wrong to say that the words we use here in this Chamber, the words we use to address each other and talk about each other, matter. If you feel that your party leader's words can be defended, it's up to you. You should know that. I think it's an abject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u48	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me turn the device back on. Good. Having said that, it is not just the extreme right-wing haters, if you like PVV side, who are responsible for the standardization of such ideas. It was this minister, Prime Minister Slob, who, in a debate with this Chamber last year, indicated that "schools may condemn homosexuality as long as they ensure a safe learning environment." Actually, I've been uniting these two since then. Because in doing so, the suggestion is raised that the two would not be linked, as if not respecting or respecting one's identity and respecting their right to exist had no effect on how safe or unsafe a learning environment or environment is for them. It's actually very simple. In order to guarantee the security of the lhbtiqa+ community, we will first have to deal with the false idea that we already have everything in this country when it comes to emancipation. As long as the various figures do not lie about it, as long as Members of Parliament here are free to express their hatred, as long as we have to have this kind of debate, there is obviously still a lot of work to be done. For example, let us ensure that diversity in the field of gender and sexual orientation within the curriculum is widely addressed. Let us point out to teachers whether or not they are conscious prejudices and their consequences. We can start today with the changes needed to create a safe learning environment for everyone. It is really good that we are having this debate here today, but let us also ensure the real safety of our Dutch people and, where necessary, let us also remind MPs and representatives of the people in general of their responsibility. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Kwint of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Towards the end of my elementary school period there were roughly two possibilities in our village: either you went right over the bridge to the Christian high school or you went left over the bridge to the incredibly Christian high school in Gorkum: indeed, the Gomarus. That is a school with good educational results, but also a school where even in our pretty Christian village only the most reformatorical children, or actually children of the most reformatorical parents, went. Those who always had a skirt on during the week and sang on whole notes twice a day on Sunday, eventually went there. You know what the SP thinks: we are not in favour of this kind of self-egregation. We believe that children are best served by a school where they learn to deal with other beliefs, beliefs and backgrounds. We believe that no school should refuse a student. But this is going a few steps further. As someone who grew up in the Alblasserwaard, I can tell you that it's damn hard to get out there. A lot of people react lovingly, for sure, but many people don't understand, don't want to understand or simply reject it, because: God. Whether you're 10, 15, 20, 30 or 50, coming out of the closet is a difficult and painful process here. Words are inadequate when you read what young people have been done to this school: imprisonment and coercion to come out of the closet to your parents. This is not neglecting your caretaker; this is child abuse, subsidised child abuse. Apparently, the school itself knew that well, because tuition money eventually went to a silent contract, a handful of silversmiths to save your own image. I hope they're ashamed of themselves. I would hope that the directors concerned would never do anything in education again, but I suspect that it is not. The inspection was tough, but as is often the case, a list of improvement points and a deadline came up. I ask the Minister: does he think it's going to get better? Does he really believe it can get better? When will they intervene if it doesn't get better? When I read the interviews with some teachers, I absolutely see their involvement and their love for children. But I also see that they are struggling with how they can deal with the legal requirements that, for example, the Citizenship Act places on them, including paying attention to sexual diversity, which Mr Van Meenen has already mentioned. Does the Minister believe that the way we have laid down in the law for this kind of orthodox schools will ultimately be feasible? And wouldn't it be time for a broader study on orthodox or perhaps all schools at this very point, gay acceptance and social security? This morning we suddenly got the law in the mail with stricter rules to deal with education drivers earlier. The Minister will have to forgive me if I have not yet read that law, but I hope that in his reply he will be able to reflect on the most important things that are changing there. The Chamber adopted my motion a year and a half ago to put an end to statements of identity that reject homosexuality and that need to be signed, the so-called anti-gay statements. I have the clear impression that the Minister remembers that debate. I am now reading that the explicit reference to homosexuality is being deleted, but what does the Minister think is going to make a difference in practice? It still says that a relationship is reserved for one man and one woman. It still says that students should behave accordingly. It still says that students should dress according to their sex, whatever that means. Does the Minister think that a young gay or a young transperson now feels safer in these schools? We just have to get rid of this eventually. We need to get rid of school admissions policy. Let me end with a question that I know is about the Minister's heart. Don't you see that when the Orthodox schools are not the only ones, because Gomarus is certainly not the only one; we have talked more about the Cheider and about the Haga Lyceum........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It's simple for us. You accept everyone. You teach everyone about what every student should know and what is prescribed by the government. And you teach kids how to hang out with each other. If this goes so fundamentally wrong every time, then there will come a time when Article 23 must be abolished or put in place. You can blame the SP for that, but it's really because of schools like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u52	Thank you. A question from Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u53	This morning I saw a two-way pass by Mr Kwint, in which he spoke of'subsidised child abuse'. I can hear him repeating that term now. We agree that there have been facts here which we abhor and which we distance ourselves from as far as possible. Whether you're SP or SGP, that doesn't make any difference. But if you're talking about Article 23 and you're making a generalising statement about subsidised child abuse, aren't you generalizing that? Then Mr Kwint generalizes that and applies it to the whole of special education, which is no basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u54	No, I expected someone with a reformed background to have a more accurate text exegesis. I did indeed talk about "subsidised child abuse" when I was talking about the abuses on the Gomarus. I'm gonna stand by that, too. I really do. Forceing children to come out while their parents are already on their way doesn't really suit me any other term than subsidised child abuse. I did not want to call the whole special education subsidised child abuse. No. This would also prejudice some of the years of education that I myself have enjoyed and have certainly not experienced as abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u55	See, those are warm lyrics again. They do more justice to the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u56	Hold that, hold that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u57	Hold that, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u58	That's never gonna take long, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u59	Well, I'd like to be your hand and foot in this. But does Mr Kwint agree with me that, although the inspection report points the finger at the fact that the facts that have occurred, it also indicates that there is not a single pupil with a different grounded background that would feel unsafe at the specific school we are talking about today, contrary to what appears to be a broader case in the Netherlands? Elsewhere, this applies on average to one in three pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u60	Mr. Bishop, I agree with you on that last point. I think it's an illusion to think that the emancipation of lhbti'ers is complete when we close reformarical schools, to put it mildly. There's a lot more to do than that. I just don't know if the fact that there wasn't any young person who felt unsafe about it is necessarily evidence of the opposite. As Mr Van Meenen pointed out, young people were apparently also approached when they had spoken with the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u61	Clear. Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Oh, there's another question from Mrs. Pouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u62	Does Mr Kwint agree with me that Article 23 is not a licence for abuses such as those that have clearly taken place at this school?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u63	No, I do not automatically agree with you, and I believe that this also applies to some of the teachers. In the interviews I have just mentioned with a number of teachers, they say that they are indeed struggling with what, for example, the Law on the Citizenship of Teachers asks and how they can implement it from the identity of the school and from their own beliefs and at the same time comply with the laws. They see the tension themselves. When it comes to locking up children and calling the parents...Of course, Article 23 doesn't give that space, otherwise the inspection wouldn't have been able to intervene. But I do think there is a link between the wider issue of the safety of Ihbti young people in Orthodox schools and Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u64	I thank Mr Kwint for his answer. I recognize that tension field. I think we share that, too, and that's something that needs to be monitored. But that is precisely what we want to keep in mind. I would point out that the inspection has responded to this in such a way that the school board itself indicates that things have gone very wrong, that it should have written a recovery plan and that this should never have happened in this way. So far, everyone I have heard in this Chamber, from left to right and from progressive to conservative, has also said that this is terrible and should not have happened. The terms'misfits' and 'child abuse' also indicate that everyone speaks of this with horror. I and my group see this as a sign that the problem lies in an incident and not in Article 23 as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u65	Indeed, I do not automatically agree with Mrs Pouw-Verweij because there is a regular succession of incidents. Mrs Westerveld has just spoken about this to Mr Van Meenen. I think we'll have a conversation about this every year. Yes, there are things that can be described as "incidents," such as locking up children. But there is also something structural about the way in which freedom of education is defined in our Constitution and subsequently in laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u66	Thank you. Then Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by saying that I have enormous respect for the former students of the school community of Gomarus, because without them we would not be standing here. They've been through a very violent situation at school, and they've gone out there with it. That's just incredibly brave. A school must above all be a safe place for all students, a place where you dare to be and can be. Unfortunately, this is not the case in all schools. Mr. Chairman. I'm not saying this to bash. I myself have a Christian-formed background and I know what struggle can be in families or in schools, precisely about how to deal with this. That also shows why it is so important that the conversation about it is conducted and facilitated, that it is clear that you may doubt who you are and what you want to become, and that you can find a search in it with each other. That is exactly the place that should be in schools, and that safety should be experienced by students. That is extremely important, for all students but also for all teachers. Unfortunately, that is not the case everywhere. For example, we know that suicide attempts among lesbian, homosexual and bisexual young people are almost five times more common than among heterosexual young people. Almost five times. That's an awful lot. That is why it is vital that every school is that safe place. We've talked about that before. I have also tabled an amendment earlier in a debate, together with the SP and the PvdA, in which we also legally stipulate that schools should provide that safe basis. I'll come back to that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. We're talking today about Gomarus' inspection report. There is no misunderstanding that things went wrong there. Locked in a room while your parents are being taken, then forced out of the closet; that must never happen again. Teaching material that says that homosexuality can be cured by prayer; that is absolutely inadmissible. And money that is meant to be used for education to pay off a student; that really is not possible either. The inspection is very clear about that, but I do have a few questions for the Minister. I would like to ask him what will happen if the recovery investigation in January shows that there has not been sufficient improvement. Then what are the next steps? Can the Minister also tell the school that it has to pay the legal costs itself, rather than do so from the general budget? It is also important to see whether this can be noticed earlier in the future or, better still, prevented. I would like to ask the Minister how the inspection could not have picked up any signals on this by 2020, but the media did. What goes wrong during inspection visits if this doesn't come to light? And does this play in several schools? What has the inspection learned from this and what has it possibly adapted in its research framework so that signals can be picked up earlier? And to what extent do the new law on citizenship education and the amendment I have just mentioned help in this respect? Is it also possible to require schools to provide more information in the school guide about, for example, external hotlines where students can go if they struggle with their sexual orientation? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a broader point, which we also discussed during the debate on the law on citizenship education. Schools have the freedom to reject a homosexual way of life within the school's vision, but at the same time, and that is my struggle, schools are obliged to create a safe environment for students. I still have a hard time rhyme with that. How can you say on the one hand that it is allowed to reject homosexuality and on the other hand have a duty to offer that safe environment to students? Can the Minister respond to this in his reply? Mr. Chairman. We are far from speaking on this subject, because we encounter a new incident every year but also because I think it is very good to have this fundamental debate on freedom of education here in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you. Perfect on time. Then we will listen to Mrs Paul, from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u69	Thank you, Mr President. In March of this year I also read the article in NRC about the heartbreaking stories of former students from the school community Gomarus, who very bravely told how they were forced to confess their homosexual feelings to their parents. They were, as it were, pushed out of the closet when they themselves were not ready. They were vulnerable children who struggled with their sexual identity or just weren't ready to share it with their environment. Those children have not experienced the psychological, physical and social security they are entitled to, right at school, right at their teachers and right at their school leadership. When I read this, I got angry and sad at the same time. How can this happen in the Netherlands, in 2021? Children should be able to be themselves anytime and anywhere, especially in school. It's supposed to be safe there. Being pushed out of the closet by your teacher is totally inappropriate and is therefore unacceptable. And if there is such an unsafe situation, as a VVD, we think that action must be taken quickly and firmly. Teachers or school boards should be able to be deactivated or expelled. And in the extreme case, it should be possible to close a school, all this in the best interests of the child. At the moment, the Education Inspectorate is at the top of the Gomarus case, and that is good. Nevertheless, I have a few questions for the Minister, part about Gomarus and part about tackling abuses in a broader sense. Gomarus has been ordered to put things in order. In January 2022, an assessment shall be made as to whether this has happened properly. My question to the Minister is simple: can't this go any faster? When it comes to vulnerable children, we must not take any risks. We need to know as soon as possible that there is a safe environment where every child can be and grow and flourish. The inspection made a declaration on 8 September, as other colleagues have already mentioned. Can the Minister explain exactly who has been reported against? Are the persons in question still in office, inactive or unexpectedly showing up somewhere? Unfortunately, the terrible issue with Gomarus is not on its own. Two weeks ago, a report by researchers Tessa Kaufman from Utrecht University and Laura Baams from Groningen University showed that lhbti-young people are more often bullied by teachers and other school staff. Being bullied by your own teacher, for who you are, let that work deep on you. We cannot accept that, and that is why action is needed. We also asked for action last autumn around schools, often reformed schools, asking parents to endorse statements of identity in which lhbti-being rejected. In response to written questions from the VVD, the Minister replied that, I quote: "a number of years ago, statements were indeed used that rejected homosexuality, but that it was no longer used." Can the Minister guarantee that school statements rejecting homosexuality will no longer be used in the Netherlands? What exactly is the Minister doing to keep a sharp eye on this? Mr. Chairman. After two years the Enlargement Act was sent to the Chamber today, Mr Kwint already referred to it. This law provides tools for the Minister to intervene more quickly when there are abuses at a school. In the letter in which the Minister announced this bill, he said, I quote: 'Strengthful intervention is sometimes required because of great urgency or because of a situation where there are very serious violations where continuing education is no longer justified'. In concrete terms, my question is whether, according to the Minister, a situation as we have now seen in Gomarus would fall under this heading. Does this law allow faster intervention in similar cases? That would be very nice and very justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u70	Period. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u71	I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u72	And you were done. Everybody happy. There was another question from Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u73	I have a question, since the VVD as the Liberal Party is also the largest party, has also signed the Rainbow Agreement and has written a few things in the main agreement. I am making the assumption, and I would particularly like to hear from it a commitment that, if the VVD participates in it and that opportunity is quite plausible, the child's freedom and security is actually being done more than in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u74	The safety of the child is paramount. That is why I ask the Minister to take the actions necessary to ensure that children in the Netherlands are safe at school here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u75	That is not an answer to my question, because that is the Minister and I asked your party. I wanted to get a commitment from the VVD on what is said here, that the signing of the rainbow agreement is not paper policy but is going to become a living policy, which will make the safety of children in a next cabinet in which the VVD participates a real priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u76	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u77	My question is about the same thing. I will not entirely repeat what I said in my interruption by Mr Van Meenen, but my question to Mrs Paul is: to what extent does she intend to work with us to ensure that we can actually have this fundamental debate on the freedom of education in the years to come and is she prepared to take a look at the modernisation of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u78	Absolutely. I was not in the Chamber at the time, but my predecessor in the Chamber, Mr Dijkhoff, spoke extensively with Mr Segers and many others in the Chamber on this subject. Let me put it in person, too. Freedom of education is also a beautiful thing, isn't it? Freedom of education offers a variety of insights, offers a variety of opinions and so on, but must never be abused to undermine our free democratic values or to undermine the safety of children. The short answer is therefore: yes, we are going to talk about this further. It's also in our election program, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u79	Yes. Clear. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u80	The VVD just said that the system is actually functioning, because the inspection has intervened with Gomarus. At the same time, you ask for improvements: how can it be better? I hear that, but does the system function as well at the moment when the ball does not roll until a group of children come out together and ask attention to such a big problem? This is already happening over a longer period of time, because it is not a question of children from the same age. Doesn't the fact that this didn't move until after the newspaper article prove that the system isn't working so well at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u81	I couldn't agree more. Nor did I say that the system is working well in this way. I'm asking you to move faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u82	I'd have understood all that traffic. A joyous moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u83	You can still read the text back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u84	I believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u85	You believe it. Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u86	I remember the debate in this Chamber about the Cornelius Haga Lyceum and the discussion about the Avicenna College. The VVD then dived into those files like some kind of hungry hyena. On the Cornelius Haga Lyceum the VVD even said: we have to close that school immediately; we really have to put those children on the street. That's what the VVD said back then. But what turned out to be later? The basis was a false report from the AIVD and according to the education inspection the allegations were not all true. Coincidentally, these were two Islamic schools. Now it's about a different kind of school. I do not hear the VVD say: this school must be closed immediately. I do not hear the VVD now saying "the funding must be stopped" or "the thumb screws must be turned on." Why is the VVD "I'll say it very flat" hard against Islamic schools, but pussies to a Christian school?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u87	I am going to do my best not to repeat the discussion that Mr Van Baarle and I had in the debate on Avicenna College, because there too I and my party were falsely accused of bashing Islamic schools and bashing Islam in general. "Don't go there," I'd like to say. The point is that the safety of children is paramount. Whether it's a strict reformatorical school, an Islamic school or a Jewish school, I don't care. The point is that the children are safe and we as VVD will do everything we can to ensure that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u88	The point is that the practice shows that the VVD does care. The VVD cares. It was about two Islamic schools. At one Islamic school there was even talk that there was a false report from the AIVD. And the education inspector said that of all these allegations, not that much is true. That's when the VVD said, "Get down hard, get down hard." Now there is another school, and then the VVD says: quietly examine, we have to follow the procedures. Mr President, that is selective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u89	The only thing that is selective is the hearing of Mr Van Baarle, because I have just asked to intervene hard and to do what is necessary. Simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u90	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Wassenberg from the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u91	Mr. Chairman. The chills run over your back when you read what was done to the students of Gomarus and what happened to them. First of all, I would like to look at the victims and then I will ask a number of questions about the system which has actually made everything possible and still makes it possible. These are children of a very vulnerable age and in a very vulnerable position who are psychologically damaged: anxiety, depression, suicidal thoughts. And that damage can have lasting consequences. I would then like to talk about repairing the psychological damage, the psychological suffering of those young people. The first thing I want to know from the Minister is how the victims are doing. How's the aftercare? Is there aftercare? Does the minister have a picture of that? The school has a collaboration with a Christian ggz institution. But then... "I didn't feel free to express myself. It didn't do me any good."That's what an alumni says. Another student says that her ggz psychologist kept saying that gayness might pass. That ggz institution seems to me to be part of the problem rather than the solution. How does the Minister view this? I'd like a response. The Minister writes that he has been talking to some of the young people involved. Well, I warmly welcome that. What has the Minister done, and what has the authorities done, to help young people who had to deal with this harsh doctrine, the intimidations of Gomarus? What is being done even more importantly to heal the wounds, to repair the psychological damage caused? Are the victims potentially financially compensated for any costs they incur in this process of aftercare? Maybe they should see a real psychologist. We read in the Minister's letter that the Education Inspectorate has given the school board a number of repair assignments. Does the Minister agree with us that restoring the situation is also about healing the psychological wounds, thus restoring the victims? I'd like a reaction to that, too. Then there is the question of the teachers and school boards who have caused the suffering, who, from a dominant position, have pushed vulnerable pupils even further into the corner. Are they still in front of the classroom and, if so, does the Minister think this is justified? Does he share the view that it is really not possible for teachers who tell children that homosexuality is a mental illness and that prison sentence would be appropriate for that to happen to be in front of the classroom? That's impossible, isn't it? In the meantime, the school has been reported on suspicion of a criminal offence. Can the Minister say anything about that? The Minister writes to the Chamber that intensive discussions have been held with pupils, staff and parents on the safety situation at school. Can the Minister tell us about the effects of this? After all, there seems to be a deep-rooted social problem that also affects other schools. The inspection writes that the policy was that the school reported homosexual relations of children to the parents, but heterosexual relations did not. So that was not just a paper measure, because that is what the school says, but was just practice. This is not the first incident of a religious school that flies in the way it deals with the Ihbti community and I'm afraid this will not be the last. The Animal Party wants to know from the minister how he will structurally improve the situation. Everyone, everyone must be safe at school. Of course, that is also a social task. In the opinion of the Animal Party, the Ministers of Education and Emancipation should be at the forefront of this fight. A minister of the Christian Union as ambassador to the Ihbti community; I would find that a very nice step. I'd also like a reaction to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u92	Thank you. We shall then listen to Mrs Gündoğan from the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I spoke to a young man who was on the Gomarus. He said himself, "I'm not that gay on the outside, but there was other guy at school and everyone saw him as gay." "Pested," that was the big word, the whole story. This is not an incident, because there is a wind of hatred and division blowing through our country and through our continent. We see it in Poland, in Hungary, in Spain. A wind that mainly comes from orthodox-religious and far-right corner or from the dangerous combination of these two. For example, discriminatory laws or resolutions are presented under the heading of protecting children and the traditional family, whatever that may be. The only thing we can do about this is show that freedom means being and loving who you love; that that freedom is stronger than politicians who sow hatred and division for electoral gain. By strongly expressing our views on this issue, by strengthening or amending our laws and policies. By exposing and breaking this pattern. But also by recognising that this discussion goes beyond the freedom of education alone. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, I am part of a Chamber whose majority is more or less in the same way as Volt. For example, we saw earlier this year that a large majority of Parliament signed the COC Rainbow Agreement. On the subject we are discussing today, a motion has been adopted by Mr Kwint, who has gone away for a while, to put an end to statements of identity in which homosexuality is rejected. My question to the Minister is: how has this motion been implemented in practice and is the Minister satisfied with the current state of affairs regarding the declarations of identity? How many schools still use such an identity statement? For example, in the light of the new citizenship mission, does the inspection carry out specific thematic research in the field of sexual and gender diversity, including at the kind of schools we are talking about today? Where is there room for further strengthening sexual and gender diversity in education? Are there any teacher training courses where no attention is paid to sexual and gender diversity in the curriculum? Does the Minister consider it possible, in the context of the renewed citizenship mandate, to have this subject followed by all teacher training courses? Can he talk to his OCW colleague about that? And what about the strengthening of the core objectives of sexual and gender diversity? Finally, Mr President. As long as we are still living in a country where our children do not feel the freedom to discover themselves, where "gay" is still the most used swear word in schools and where lhbti young people suffer much more often from depression or suicidal thoughts than cisgender heterosexual young people, as long as that is the case, we are not here. That is why, as a Volt, we hope that the next cabinet will not only make our education a safe place for everyone, but that the COC Rainbow Agreement will also be implemented. We owe this to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u94	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u95	Mr. Chairman. Every young person has the right to a safe place, to security, especially at school. It is hard enough for a lot of young people to dare to be themselves and to stand up for their orientation. A safe and loving environment I give to every young person. The stories that have come in the news about students being forced out of the closet are violent, heartbreaking and poignant. Something really went wrong here. I sympathize with these students and I think it is extremely good that they have come out with their story, even years later, if the old wounds had opened. Mr. Chairman. These young people have not been given the safety they should be in every school. All the stories and the examination of the inspection show that there was insufficient consideration at this school for the safety and equivalence of pupils who deviate from what is common. That's troubling and sad. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister has asked for a recovery plan and that careful consideration is given to the lessons learned from this situation. Because every student must feel safe, equal and familiar in school. Students should receive good support and be able to do their story in confidence. If necessary, it should be possible to intervene when schools do not sufficiently respect and guarantee the equality, freedom and social security of pupils. This is where the intervention has taken place. The system we have does its job and has to do its job. Schools have a great freedom, and that's a great good. But that freedom is always limited. Action is therefore taken if limits are exceeded. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, in this debate, I would like to argue for nuance and care. I already belong to a number of groups to the pavlov reaction that Article 23 needs to be modernised. However, I believe that this analysis is correct in saying that an amendment to the Constitution can make sure that a situation does not arise anymore. In my view, it is much more important to bet in a safe place for lhbti students in all schools, because there are so many places where it still falls short. This month, a study by Utrecht University and the University of Groningen showed that Ihbti students are being bullied much more than their fellow students. This research was conducted among 30,000 pupils from 136 different schools of all kinds of denominations. So it is a broad problem that deserves attention in all schools. On the contrary, I see Christian schools working more and more actively to provide a safe place for everyone, whatever their mode. Let us cherish this positive development, and ensure that all schools are a safe place for lhbti students. Should I finish it, Mr. Chairman? It's okay. It's okay. The Christian Union chooses the freedom to be who you are, the freedom of thought and the freedom of faith. In it we give space to each other, and space for the differences that exist. It is a good thing that schools have the freedom and space to shape education on the basis of their beliefs to help children to flourish and build society. And that is only possible if all children actually experience that safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u96	Thank you. Just a few interruptions. First, an interruption by Mr De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u97	What I liked so much about Mrs Bikker's interruptions is that you put the student's perspective at the centre. I really wanted to compliment you for that. I know how important the freedom of education is, including for your party. I think that freedom is important, too, but I think it's nice that you put that perspective down for a while. I'm going to go to my question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u98	And you're also going to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u99	I will, Mr. Chairman. Through you, I ask Mrs Bikker: you said that Article 23 is outlined by the parties as if it creates the possibility for such situations. I think that's true. It was the minister of OCW who himself stressed that Article 23 gave the constitutional right to ask parents to reject homosexuality for schools. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for passing on the compliment. Let me start with that: Article 23, of course, focuses on the flowering of children. Parents should be able to form education with each other in this way. That's what I want to say. That's how I look at Article 23. That's how I look at every child: it's allowed and it's safe to know. Then there is Mr De Hoop's question. I remember very well myself that I voted in the First Chamber for the bill, which means that Article 1, the prohibition of discrimination, is extended to include the mode. You can't discriminate against that. That is essential to me. Any child can be who he is. Also someone who finds out he's Ihbti must feel safe at every school. However, I also insist that every school should have a vision of marriage and how to shape it. I think there are many different views in the Netherlands about this. It must never mean that a child is not safe, but I stand for that diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u101	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u102	In conclusion, I would also ask Mrs Bikker to realise that, because of the constitutional rights of Article 23, there is the possibility for schools to ask for such a gay declaration. I think we should take a look at that. We must preserve this freedom of education, but also ensure that there is no discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u103	Any school with a statement that would discriminate deserves to be addressed in accordance with the rules of our laws. I'll never approve of that. That's one. Two. I don't know any schools right now that ask for a statement like that. If Mr. De Hoop did, he'd definitely have to stop by.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u104	The schools have indeed amended their declarations of identity on the basis of my motion. There is no more explicit demand to reject homosexuality. What is said is that a relationship must take place between husband and wife. And that a school of students and teachers expects them to form according to the identity of the school that this is part of. In practice, hasn't changed so much for a gay youngster? In such an explanation, doesn't he read exactly what was in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u105	Once again, I have never seen that statement myself in this way, but well, I will exchange it with Mr Kwint. As far as I'm concerned, every student really needs to know how safe it is. I know stories, I've talked to drivers who say that even in my school, which is of an orthodox background, girls can like girls and boys on boys. I think that's important. At the same time, I think a school can organize itself towards a belief, as most churches do. A lot of churches bless all kinds of marriages, including between men and men. All fine, but there are also churches, including the largest ones in the Netherlands, that say: we see that differently. That is a freedom we have in this country. I believe that we should allow this room for difference to exist, which should always apply, and I would like to insist that a student should know safely that a student should be able to discuss this. For many students, growing up in a community like this, it's nice to be able to discuss that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u106	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u107	Yes, it is true for many students, but often it is not true for these students. It is explicitly said that a relationship must take place between man and woman. There is an appeal to the Bible to make a case for that. I don't want to engage in that discussion at all. The minute you know that your parents signed it, that freedom isn't there at all, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u108	Now Mr. Kwint pretends what the parents sign mostly matters how a child grows up. The parents I have spoken to, also in the circles where they are really convinced of this, have the good for their child. They'll talk to them about that. There has also been a lot of change in this community. It has started to speak much more with love and emotion and has started to discover how to make this talkable in schools. I remember very well how Minister Plasterk really thought some time ago that in some orthodox schools children are not safe, but when he got there, he said: they are safer here than in many other places. Of course, we must name the wrongs when there are and let us make sure that they are better. But I was also a councilman in Utrecht. I've seen what happened in a lot of other schools. On the rocks, kids aren't safe anymore. I was just as good at that. Now it's being pretended to be only in these schools. I would really like to reject that strongly, because I believe that we are all facing a challenge here. You can always point to the Christian Union and you can. I will gladly discuss this again and again in these schools. I live in Gouda. When I talk about this problem, it's not just about the reformatory school there, it's about the MBOs and the other schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u109	Mrs Bikker's standing up for the students is to be praised indeed. In that respect, I agree with Mr. De Hoop's words. But I think she's downplaying the problem a little bit. She says that public schools are bullied too. That's right. Unfortunately, that can't be ruled out. That's where we need to take action. But here it is not just bullying, it is part of the system. It's structural. It's policy. That's what we need to talk about. Mrs Bikker shakes no, but if I take the inspection report, it says on page 18 that the policy note puts it this way: "If a student within the school reveals a homosexual relationship with another student, we will enter into consultation with the parents/carers." Then they'll go on for a while. That's just school policy. They're gonna consult with the parents and carers. Then the school says: that's just a paper rule and we don't do that in practice. But it turns out that it does happen in practice. It's policy. The system needs to be addressed here. Mrs. Bikker can't deny that, can she?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u110	I've been very clear about the situation at this school. I think it's inappropriate. Something really went wrong here. It is right that the inspection has been there and that there is now a recovery plan. I am perhaps speaking about this in the same terms as Mr Wassenberg, but he alone draws him very meta as if special education or Article 23 were the basis of this problem. I say, "I don't see it like that." I also see schools with the same identity where those children are safe. That's one. Two. I can see with you that there are a lot of problems in schools where Ihbti students don't know themselves safely. I'd like to deal with that. That's where you'll find me by your side. Maybe that's what some people get used to here, but I really do it with all the love, at any school. We can talk about this small group of schools, but we need to talk about all these kids. Unfortunately they feel unsafe in many places and it is difficult to get out of the closet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mrs Bikker will be able to review the Acts in a moment. I have not mentioned Article 23 throughout the debate. This is the second time I have mentioned Article 23. That's not the point. The point is that Mrs Bikker is changing the structural policy of schools with incidents that are really objectionable and that we must combat. Here it is in the school's policy notes. It could be that this is the case in other schools as well. That's the point. I want to address the schools where this is part of the policy. I ask Mrs Bikker whether she also disapproves of it if it is in policy notes and is the school's policy. That's not a paper policy. Paper policy would be reprehensible anyway. Does she also reject it if this is just the daily, weekly or monthly practice of these schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u112	If there is discrimination based on orientation, I stand alongside Mr Van Wassenberg to say that a school should not do so. When it comes to a safe learning environment, I stand alongside Mr Van Wassenberg to say that a school must create a safe learning environment, including for these pupils. But when he says that a school should no longer have views about relationships or that it should only be a certain view, I say: we must stop there for a while. Those students must be absolutely safe. So that requires a lot of these schools. That is a field of tension that other schools will not know. But I see how they work on that and I also see improvements in many areas. That doesn't change the fact that things didn't go well at this school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u113	Fine. Mr Wassenberg, moreover, has to do without 'van'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u114	May I make one more comment, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u115	No, no, no. I'm gonna do it in half, or it's gonna be crazy. Mr Meenen. Van Meenen. I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u116	Van Meenen, Mr. Van Bosma. Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the words of Mrs Bikker when it comes to children, and also the way in which she condemns what is happening. That's very good. We cannot talk to Mrs Bikker about what is happening in those schools, but we can discuss with each other what is the best remedy. I'd like to do that with her. I heard her say the system works. Then I'm not talking about the system at that school, but the system that eventually leads to a notification to the Public Prosecutor that there will be an inspection report, etc. But I disagree with her on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u117	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u118	Is it not true, Mrs Bikker, that this shows that the system is not working? Shouldn't the system be such that it also works preventively, and that not only after years of abuses and abuse, I would almost say, this will come to light?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u119	Of course, I would have liked us to know this earlier, for these children most of all. Let that be said, for I find it distressing for these children that they have walked with this for so long and that this may have happened for other children as well; I do not know, because I have this case of inspection. That's one. At the same time, however, it has to be said that action has been taken here. If there's a system in which no incident is reported at any point, we could rest assured, because everything would work. At the same time, I see that in the research of the University of Groningen, one in four Ihbti students says: I am bullied by school staff and students. That's more common than students who don't have lhbti backgrounds. So I'm saying that I think this system is working. We have another problem in our society, which is bigger than education. That's what the sports clubs will see. That's how people deal with Ihbti students.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u120	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u121	But the system must also work preventively. So it doesn't seem to be doing that, not just in these schools, but elsewhere. My question to Mrs Bikker is: does she agree with me that we should work along two lines? One line is the inspection, which has to react much more to signals and act immediately, rather than wait a very long time. The second is to make it clear that Article 23 is not an immeasurable freedom, because every school, whether it is a public school or whatever school, has the same freedom of education, but in it it is abused. Then I ask her: is it not time to limit this and make a clear statement here, also by Mrs Bikker, that Article 23 is not a free pass for bad or unsafe education?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u122	I believe that Mr Van Meenen is now too quick to conclude that the amendment of Article 23 means that there is a preventive effect. I think that's where we're gonna part ways. Here part our ways. That way...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u123	That phrase sounds familiar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u124	It just came in this place; I couldn't help it. I think that we really need to think about what is helping these students and what good steps we can take. One step has also been taken in this house. That's the law that sees the citizenship mission. I really believe that this will also increase the content of the discussions in schools. We also see...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u125	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u126	But I received three points from Mr Van Meenen. He's giving an old reformed question. That is possible, but then of course he also gets a reformed answer. You can expect that from me. Therefore, I think it is really important that we do not look at Article 23 as if it is the key to the solution for these children, but that we really look at what our society needs. I have seen in Utrecht that there is a need for a very different conversation than to let the schools know again through Article 23 what the world is like. But we have Article 1. If there is discrimination, it will have to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u127	Thank you. I hope not a reformed question from Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u128	It doesn't work. Yeah, both feet. Well, I'm gonna go hold him tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u129	Don't move!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u130	Don't move. Article 23. I would like to ask Mrs Bikker, because they have a lot of problems in education. Yesterday, at the round table meeting by Jan Jacob van Dijk, it was said that all of them should seriously consider a system change. As far as I am concerned, this is not against Article 23 and education based on faith. This is tackling opportunity inequality. There is a segregation of theoretical and practical trained people, with people of different descent who do not meet. Education should be a place of cross-pollination and getting to know each other, so that you are prepared for citizenship. That is why my question is not as a "hot," but rather an open question: can we call it into question if it leads to better and more inclusive education for every child?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u131	But then I say again here: look at what is happening. I lived in Utrecht and I saw how it went with the registration of children for schools. Honestly, that went pretty much according to the postal codes. The postal codes are currently the segregating fact in our cities. I think that all those parties, including those here, who know a lot about how Article 23 should be put together, the concrete policy in the big cities, about how we deal with schools and admission policies for children, know that it has something quite different to do with your background or your deepest conviction as parents. Then it has to do with: make sure that parents can register at the same time, make sure that also children living in the poorer Overvecht can come to school with the children from the richer Garden Village next door?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u132	This is becoming a slightly different discussion, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u133	It's fascinating, but you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u134	I know. Mrs. Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u135	I bring this up because I think... I sometimes have this discussion in my private circle. This requires daring to cut into everyone's own flesh. This requires that more theoretically trained parents also contribute to reducing segregation in our country, so that the children actually meet. Every holy house must be called into question, so that every child in the Netherlands can enjoy better education, I think. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u136	I think it's a very nice question, even if it was asked a little questioning. I must say that that is precisely why I am a fan myself, for example, of special education. Because I see in my own children's school that people of all kinds of education choose that school because of Christian education and that it does give you a mix. I don't think we should go too fast with means and targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u137	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Bishop of the SGP. I'm trying to narrow the interruptions a little bit and keep it short. This meeting's in the books until 7:00, but I'm doing my best to get you out early. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u138	Thank you, Mr President. When I read the newspaper article with the story of those youngsters who would have been pushed out of the closet, my stomach turned, frankly. It really gave me a stomachache, not because it was a reformatory school, but because it's a situation that you don't want any younger kids and you don't expect anything from education. Mr. Chairman. Young people with different sexual orientations often find it very difficult. When you're in class, in an average class at any school, figure out that you're grounded differently, that your sexual orientation is different from most. The fluffy rainbow flags may suggest otherwise, but it's really not a party for many when they discover that they have a different focus. Gay young people are even less likely to confide in their parents. And if you end up in situations like this again, that's a painful, intense experience. For this reason, the SGP welcomed the fact that the inspection was going to investigate this seriously. Mr. Chairman. The reason for today's debate in the Chamber is the story of a specific school, but I agree with colleagues from the VVD and Christian Union, Mrs Paul and Mrs Bikker, the broad research of the universities of Utrecht and Groningen showed last week that this is not a problem of a limited group of schools. The problem is in public schools and in schools of various denominations throughout the Netherlands. The research even shows that even teachers show bullying behavior. Sad. Totally unacceptable. I must also say that, if you look a little further into this matter, there have been such signals five years ago. The problem therefore requires special attention everywhere. In all honesty, the SGP wonders whether the inspection has an adequate picture of these problems. What surprises me is that, according to the inspection in 2020, the school we are talking about today has nothing to blame. In the in-depth inspection report of the visit that was made, no comments were made in this direction. Mr. Chairman. According to the SGP, the inspection report shows a nuanced picture. I realize that I am going against the stigmas that colleagues have pasted, but I would like it to be named. Something really went wrong in 2016, at several times. No one's denying that. The school regrets this and has taken action as soon as it becomes known. That was too late. You can put that right. The inspection considers that the school should do more to fulfil the duty of care for safety, and the school's board also wants to fully fulfil that responsibility. I do note that the inspection itself did not find any homosexual students who now have complaints about the school. In addition, homosexual pupils are satisfied with the way in which the school behaved when they came out for their orientation. I therefore find it stigmatizing to talk as if there is a pattern to be discovered at that school. That doesn't make any sense, especially from the inspection report. Mr. Chairman. We expect that the inspection will pay close attention to the repair orders and we trust that the school will work to this end. I have two more questions, but perhaps it would be good to do the interruptions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u139	No, you're gonna finish it first. You've got 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u140	Okay. Two questions. Does the Minister not find it unsatisfactory that we are still talking about the school on the basis of a newspaper article and not on the basis of an independent fact-finding investigation? Couldn't supervision mean more in this? And the second question: is it desirable for the inspection to report matters which are particularly important in relation to education legislation? Why report possible wrong policies when we just have an inspection to ensure that deficiencies are corrected as quickly as possible? This creates a questionable precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u141	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u142	Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u143	No, no, no. You're way past your time. We're gonna see if there's any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u144	I think we're also talking about an inspection investigation. In fact, I said in my own contribution that there was a possibility that the pupils with whom the inspection spoke could have been instructed in advance by mentors. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that this could give a highly distorted picture and that it should be examined whether that is the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u145	No, I totally disagree with that, because I also saw how the inspection set up the investigation. There were several options, including telephone and outside school. They've spoken to their own selection of students. Everything is done about it that is reasonably possible to get and speak with pupils who are interested in this, if there are. Moreover, during this meeting I spontaneously receive a request from students from the Gomarus. I don't know how they got my number, but they say, "Can we please go to The Hague? We'd like to tell you what's really going on." They feel hurt by the stigmatizing way they talk about their school. That's a good sign. I invite colleagues to hold a follow-up session with them, here in the Chamber or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u146	I understand from what Mr Bishop said that he is not prepared to see if this message is correct. He's just saying, it's not right. If we are in the Chamber in this way dealing with strong clues... For these clues come from pupils from the school, no doubt other than those who spoke to Mr Bishop. He should want that to be investigated, shouldn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u147	I'll let you look at it as much as you want, but I'm basing myself on the inspection report. The inspection justifies the method they have followed to track those students where this was somewhat possible and to get them to the table in particular. That didn't happen. Well, you're gonna have to deal with that right now. I hear all kinds of speculations like "yes, but the mentors have called" or "the school leadership has watched over it." I can't do that much with that kind of messages. I'm gonna let it be investigated. I look forward to that with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u148	I would also like to ask Mr Bishop about his consistency. I have, of course, looked back at the debate on the Cornelius Haga Lyceum. In fact, I have the report here. When all the political parties in this Chamber fell over each other to say that school had to be closed, Mr Bishop suddenly came up with his contribution. He said, "I have a good idea! Since this school does not respect the obligation to work on active citizenship and social inclusion and does not respect the obligation to create a climate of social and psychological security, this minister must limit funding." Well, there is a school of another signature whose inspection says that it does not comply with the duty of care under Article 3 of the Secondary Education Act, and that Article 11 and Article 99 are also violated. There are signs that there is a violation of the rule of law and a criminal report has been made. And Mr Bishop has a story about this: it is good that it is being investigated. Are you so inconsistent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u149	If you compare potatoes with strawberries and say "they are very inconsistent products," that is inconsistent, yes. This comparison does not make any sense, for the simple reason that the Cornelius Haga Lyceum was concerned with reports which clearly identified a number of aspects and where findings and conclusions flowed logically. If Mr Van Baarle has read this inspection report correctly, he will see that the findings of the inspection are positive. That is why our conclusion is that this is the result of a nuanced picture. As a result, it is said: yes, but on paper it is not quite right and so there must be a repair order. That's what all those articles refer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u150	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u151	They are therefore completely incomparable. This therefore concerns consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u152	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u153	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop says that the report was logical. Afterwards, it was said by the supervisor that there were irregularities in the report and that that was not right. On the basis of a false report, Mr Bisschop wanted to go so far as to close a school and have measures taken. Now there is also a tough report, which states that the law is violated in three areas by a school. Now Mr Bishop is very nuanced and says that the report is not well prepared. I note that this is selective or that Mr Bishop has doubts about the education inspection. Then we have a lot of explaining to do here. Is Mr Bishop questioning the education inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u154	I believe that I have made it clear what the report is, what the report is consistent in and what the report is not consistent in. I'll put my finger on that. The report on Cornelius Haga was in any case consistent. This leads to a different conclusion. I'd say that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u155	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u156	Mr Bishop began to speak out against bullying and intimidation of Ihbti pupils. That's awesome to him, but right after that he shot in a trivializing mode, because then he said it's also in other schools, including in public schools. That's right. No one will fight that and everyone will say that we must do something about it. The point is that it is in this reformatory school's policy; it is part of the policy. I just mentioned the policy note in an interrupting debate with the Christian Union. That's the problem here. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that we should fight this and that we simply cannot accept that this is included in any school's policy? Again, harassment and harassment can never be completely ruled out, but you have to try. If it is included in the school's policy, if it is structural, and if there is almost institutional, because that is discrimination, should you fight it hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u157	Let me begin with the first point: the trivialization. I'm throwing that far from me. I have not in any way given any reason to suspect that I am minimising or trivialising these cases, this situation, in any way whatsoever. I do not think it is right for this to be mentioned in this way. We do have a terrible case here, a painful case, a situation in which you... Anyway, I can repeat those words; I'm not going to do that. We must only be aware that this is one case and that the problem is much greater. In this context, I would also like to draw Mr Wassenberg's attention to the study of 30,000 students, which was published last week. I have heard Mr Wassenberg say five times that it is in the school's policy, but that is not true at all. Yeah, if he's selectively quoting, it's in the school's policy. Because at the same time it is also stated: yes, of course, this has been a policy or it has been written down in this way, but this has not been a practice. If you see how the school reacts to this, you can also see that this has not been a policy. Yeah, it was still on paper, and it needs to be modified in a repair order. That's what they were ordered to do. I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u158	A short question and a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u159	Yes, a brief question, Mr. Chairman. If you get a passage from an inspection report of 29 pages, that is obviously selective. It's hard for me to read them all 29. But when the inspection writes that the school denies that this policy is, even though something is written on it, but that this is nevertheless the formal line of the school, that is not selective quoting. Then that's just the inspection, which says: the school acts like nothing's going on and as if it's a paper rule, but in practice it's just being applied. You're talking about institutional discrimination, aren't you? I haven't heard from Mr Bishop about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u160	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u161	No, that's a rather strange term in this connection, I'll say. Look, what's selective quoting? That is indeed 'not least this is the formal line, because it is so on paper', and it does not imply that all sections indicate that this does not work in practice and that they should have adapted it. That has nothing to do with institutional discrimination, or I do not know what we want to call it. Far from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u162	I also have some difficulty with Mr Bishop's words, because he pretends to be one case. I'll take a look at the inspection report. They say a lot, but they say, among other things, that the board does not sufficiently ensure that teachers and other staff contribute, from their role, to achieving a safe environment for all pupils, and their assurance is insufficient. There's not a word of Spanish in there, is there? Surely it is quite clear what the inspection here says about the role of the school board, among other things?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u163	This is a wonderful example, and I would like to thank Mr Westerveld for this quote, which explains why this report sometimes raises questions, although I do not wish to question it. The inspection notes that no pupil, not even with a different orientation, can be found on the Gomarus indicating that things are not going well. They could speak freely. Then there is a formal observation: the school does not take care of it and it is not secured enough. That's right; on paper there are things that are lagging behind, absolutely. But the school itself admits that. I'm not going to defend the school in this case either. As a pedagogue and as a grandpa, I think it'll just be your grandchild who happens to this. You're gonna stand back from that, and you're gonna be horrified. I just think we should keep doing justice to that school. And if no one is found during an intrusive inspection at a very specific point, then frankly I can't do that much with this kind of conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u164	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u165	It's complicated to me anyway. The inspection is asked to investigate examples and then comes up with some very hard data, of which my quote is one, and then Mr Bishop actually says here: yes, but there are inconsistencies in the report. I find that a very difficult one. This, of course, also has to do with the reaction of the board, which we find in the same inspection report. There's a lot of denial in that. Does Mr Bishop not agree with me that if it is not seen that there is a problem in these schools, it will also be very difficult to recognise it and to take it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u166	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u167	And of course you'll find...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u168	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u169	I'll let her finish, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u170	Yeah, but then you're gonna give me another long answer. She made her point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u171	I understand your tight hand, and I appreciate it. I understand the question, but I don't think I have to conclude from the board's reaction to the report that they're in the phase of denial and negation. I can't read that out. I read that people want to be judged in real terms. And here's what I'm gonna do. I did not mention this with the board, I say, in order to avoid misunderstandings. When I read what the findings are and what conclusions, intentions and obligations are attached to them, I cannot always follow that one-on-one. One of those points you made, and I'll leave the inspection report as it is. I do believe that the necessary things must be done, and I am sure that will be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u173	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u174	Then we are going to listen to Mr Peters, from the CDA group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A person is not an individual, but a person in relation to the other, an entity in a community. In a community a person flourishes and is intrinsically valuable within that community as a person. Man may be seen, known, and appreciated. That goes for every human being, without ifs and buts. The articles in NRC, among others, and the inspection reports show that the Gomarus College has been completely inadequate for some of the pupils in this area and, even after they were aware of events in 2016, has done completely insufficient to ensure the social security of lhbti young people. That's bad. We all share that here. That is completely unacceptable. Mr. Chairman. Raising is more than feeding and a teacher is more than a instruction manual, more than an instructor. You can't influence a community. Who you are and what you do, that matters in education. You make a difference together. That also makes the profession of teacher so beautiful and so important, but also vulnerable and sometimes so complicated. Where a community drops, where the person is not seen within the community, is not valued or much worse, there people are damaged and, everyone will agree: that should never, never, never happen, and certainly not at a school where young people in a vulnerable period of life struggle with their identity and in many cases with their sexuality should be able to grow up and reside safely. And again: without ifs and buts. I read the education report on events at the Gomarus in 2016. It was crystal clear: what happened there is no good, period. In the words of the Education Inspectorate, insufficient lessons have been learned to ensure the necessary structural improvements. There was or is quite something wrong with social security within the school community, and it was not done enough to improve it at that time. There's even been an inspection report for a possible criminal offence. The state's attorney's office is currently investigating. Now what? First of all, the school as a community needs to get started. They say they recognize mistakes and pick up the glove. The inspection should keep the finger on the wrist tight. In January 2022, it should be established whether the Steering Board has carried out the recovery mission properly. The Minister will keep us informed and take appropriate action if necessary. Then a few questions. 1. Does the educational inspection have sufficient powers and space to do what it is ordered to do, to check the quality of education? Is the strengthening of citizenship on 1 August not enough? 2. Does the school board have sufficient opportunities to relieve pedagogical innocence, because we have also seen this, if necessary, from their duties? 3. Does the Minister have enough powers and space to really intervene when the social security of children in a school would be severely undervalued? Does the amended law strengthen administrative enforcement tools give the inspection and the minister sufficient tools to intervene if a school fails to comply with the basic values of our rule of law? Can the Minister state what he can do in this context if social security is at stake? 4. Schools must report incidents relating to social security. We read that this didn't happen. Why is that, I ask the Minister. And what are we going to do about it? Signals get to the newspaper before the inspection, it seems. That should be the other way around, I would think. How are we gonna do that? Together with the Christian Union, we are thinking of a motion on this point. Finally, Mr President. A man is not an individual but a person in relation to another. In a community, a man flourishes. Every human being within that community as a person is intrinsically of value. Unfortunately, that is not always a matter of course, and really not only in these schools, but in a lot, so we hear. I hope and pray that we all have much more attention to that, everywhere, but certainly also at the Gomarus College, given the disturbing reports of the education inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u176	I heard Mr Peters say that schools should report such situations. Does Mr Peters therefore think that the inspection should act on these reports? That is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u177	Yes, I say through the chairman. Yes, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u178	Point, delicious. Interruptions can't be short enough, but so short, that even scares me. Mr Van Baarle of the DENK Group will be the next speaker. We're gonna listen to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u179	Thank you, Mr President. What happened at the Gomarus in Gorinchem, it can't be. We cannot accept that children, who often struggle with their sexuality, must go through this. How did these disgusting practices take place for so long? The education inspection carried out a regular check, but did not notice these facts and events at the time. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. Does the inspection at regular checks check well enough for a safe school environment, for citizenship assignment and for teaching materials? Shouldn't the inspection be given a stronger role in that? Shouldn't these things be better targeted? Mr. Chairman. The school has now received a lead from the inspection. How will the Minister ensure that it is followed? What is the Minister going to do if it were to become apparent that there is not enough improvement? Mr. Chairman. This painful case does not affect the value of special education. DENK stands for the freedom of education and special education simply works in width. As far as DENK is concerned, there is therefore no need for a change beyond an acceptance obligation. The monitoring system is essentially working well at the moment. Does the Minister share this view? Mr. Chairman. Discrimination and intolerance must disappear from education, whether homophobic, sexist or xenophobic. But unfortunately, we still have a long way to go. As has already been said, the inspection must check more closely on this, because it is more widespread. We have shown some of these examples before, but see for example this picture from a school book. It says: "Other cultures often appear threatening." The photo shows two terrorists. Stigmatizing to the bone. Another textbook. It's a fill-in order. The question is: "What shows that Turks and Moroccans are bad at criticizing their faith?" Generalizing. Rude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u180	I actually want to do the interruptions at the end, Mr. Beertema. Or is it specifically on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u181	Yeah, it's specifically about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u182	Then can you keep it brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u183	I hear all kinds of comments on textbooks. I also have a textbook here on my phone. Children learn in Islamic schools: Allah abhors homosexuality. Girls and boys shouldn't look at each other, because that's haram. They can't wear infidels' clothes. So far it goes: Allah abhors homosexuality. This kind of thing comes from a textbook, from an Islamic textbook. Let me see what it's called again. I'm sure you know it. I assume that your whole comment on these teaching methods also applies to the teaching method that I am now referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u184	If Mr Beertema had paid more attention in the past period, he would have noticed that we are extremely consistent with DENK. Mr Bertema can learn from that. If something goes beyond its limits, we condemn it and say that we do not approve of it. We have done the same in this regard. I find it striking that Mr Beertema is now quoting a number of passages from textbooks, alleged passages, to say that they are hateful. Could I therefore invite Mr Beertema to take a look at the PVV's own election programme and its own rhetoric? If Mr Beertema really has something against polarizing and being hateful, then I think he can run his entire election programme through the shredder. I'd say, before you make an interruption like this, take a look in the mirror, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u185	I would like to thank Mr Van Baarle for contributing to my reputation. I believe that Mr Bertema has been mentioned 26 times. Thank you for that. Furthermore, I find the reaction to my interruption so predictable. I think it's getting a little shabby. It's the third or fourth time I've had such a reaction. I'm trying to ask you a substantive question, and then I'm going to get one of those papers over the PVV election programme and all that. You know what? Just drop it and finish your story. We're gonna have coffee sometime and see if I can change your mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u186	Fine, that's not a question, so you can just continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u187	Well, Mr. Chairman, if I may. That's quite a remark. Mr Beertema, on behalf of the PVV, interrupts the subject of Islam and calls me predictable. I think Mr Bertema is predictable with his islamobsession. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. It's a fill-in order. Students should check the differences between immigrant and native. While we no longer use these words, Dutch children must therefore learn to make a distinction. Another social study book. It says: as usual in Moroccan and Turkish culture, girls don't have much to bring in. Generalizing shit, which is presented to Dutch schoolchildren! Finally, another passage from a textbook. It says: Islam comes with some regularity worldwide, these are not my words in the news like an unbearable religion, which discriminates against women, bans homosexuality and calls for hatred against those who think otherwise. You'd think that's a contribution from a speech by Geert Wilders, but it's just in a textbook. So it's just in a textbook and that's what's being presented to school children. Mr. Chairman. We have shared many examples with him in the past, but do the Minister share with me that these examples cannot and that we should therefore examine school materials in order to prevent discrimination and hatred, not only because of the terrible case at the Gomarus, but also because of these examples? Does he agree with me that we should make more preventive efforts to prevent this and that the inspection should monitor this? Homophobia, xenophobia, sexism: it doesn't belong in textbooks. It doesn't belong in school materials. It's not supposed to be in school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u188	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Beertema of the Party for Freedom Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u189	Mr. Chairman. The school community of Gomarus has crossed a line, which is unacceptable. They have deliberately created an unsafe learning environment in which they have forced pupils to reveal their sexual orientation and they have grossly violated the privacy of pupils and the connection between parent and child, where the development of sexual identity belongs. That's outrageous! It is an almost unforgivable sin that requires far-reaching sanctions. And look what happened. There's been interference, and how! The D.A. has launched a criminal investigation based on the findings of the education inspection. A criminal investigation! That's unbelievable. This has been done following a violation of the principle of equality on the basis of sexual orientation. On the basis of this observation, the inspector-general reported on behalf of the education inspection on 8 September last year. So what exactly are we doing here? We are having a fuss debate here. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, A fuss about a miscarriage that is now being dragged in to undermine Article 23 of the Constitution. A fuss to check Christian education. It's head-kicking. Head kicks, that cowardly nasty habit of kicking back a victim who can't defend himself anymore. Those boomers of that time, the peers of Mr Van Meenen and myself, the left-wing students and teachers of that time, did not miss an opportunity to ridicule, bash and cancel Christianity. And now it's time to finish the job. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, this debate is purely intended to express our very legitimate disgust at the behaviour of the school community and the unsafe educational environment that is required of pupils, and nothing more than that. I am also saying this because all the parties who are now showing their fuss are normally in the lead in condemning others when they express themselves on a case that is under the courts. Well, that restraint is now suddenly out of the question when it comes to D66 and the other anti-article-23 parties. At least that's hypocritical, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It is extremely serious what has happened, but the inspection does acknowledge in the report that both the administration and the school are paying considerable attention to the pupils. It's already been mentioned here. Students assess social security on the Gomarus as very good. I would like to mention that number, ascending from a 9.2 for vmbo base to a 9.8 for vwo. That's extremely high. That has never been done by my rock, which was a general school, extremely diverse. The inspection also states: "No pupil we have spoken to says that he is currently feeling unsafe at school or being bullied at school. Students who say they have felt less comfortable in previous years are in their eyes well helped by the mentors. Conversations show that this also applies to some students who have told them at school that they are homosexual." That was the quote. However, the inspection also states that there is still a limited group that feels less secure. This group, consisting mainly of former pupils, does not feel safe enough to confide in an employee. I ask the Minister to what extent this is consistent with the statement that no student has indicated that he feels unsafe and that this is also true of some students who are homosexual and who have been able to share it at school on his own initiative. There is also the question of security, which I would also like to put to the Minister, and what should actually be the purpose of this desire for security, that desire for safe spaces where literally everyone, whatever it is, should experience at school a kind of total safety that precludes any injury. Isn't that a utopia, I ask the Minister. And doesn't it distract too much from the core goal of a school, which is to provide good education? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, concluding. What happened in 2016 and possibly in the years after is downright reprehensible, but fortunately not everything is gloomy and tormentful in relation to the school community of Gomarus. Since this case is now before the District Attorney's office, we will not sit on the judge's seat, but we are particularly interested in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u190	We now have an age discussion between Mr Van Maanen and Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u191	Yeah, boomers among themselves. By the way "agemates": that man is much older than me! I don't know how he dares...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u192	I'm neutral in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u193	Yes, I understand. Okay. Mr. Chairman. It's unbelievable, isn't it? A fuss debate: no, you really shouldn't be at the PVV! They don't do that there. I can still see Mr. Beertema when it came to the Haga Lyceum. Well, we could really have a debate on that with him every day. But apparently not right now. That's a little less convenient. I'm gonna let that go. Mr President, on safety. That's the funny hang of the PVV on numbers. On average, it's all good, but you can't find the individual students in that average. On average, 9.8 out of 15,000 students. Well, there can be a lot of 1's in between; then you still get to an average 9.8. That's exactly the point. That does not seem to interest Mr Beertema at all, as long as the average is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u194	Are you going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u195	Yes. What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u196	I do not really have a question, but I am more outraged by Mr Beertema's contribution, a somewhat atypical PVV contribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u197	The sound's breaking up. I'd love to, but you really do it yourself. You need to push hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u198	I was just thinking, what the hell? It is good if there are occasional interventions in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u199	But not with you, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u200	...and certainly because of you. You should do that more often, but of course not with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u201	Thank you for your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u202	I ask Mr Beertema: does he really think that nothing is going on here, that everything is fine here, that everyone feels safe? Does he put his hand in the fire for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u203	All these suggestions that it would not be me to do to the individual students, but that I would only be interested in averages: I find that so childish! During the 34 years I have taught, I have paid a great deal of attention to the well-being of all those students, of whatever origin. You just shouldn't do this, Mr. Van Meenen. The inspection report shows that the safety climate on the Gomarus is extraordinary and scores extremely high. Then you shouldn't be childish. You were a driver. You know what that means. That means something. In your introduction, which is not really part of the question, it was about the comparison with the Haga, when I was standing here screaming murder and fire. You also know that this is a completely incomparable case. What has happened there is, of course, not comparable to what has happened at this school, which we are debating now. It was about intimidation. It was about wiretapping in the room where the inspection conducted her interviews. That's just gangster practice. You can't compare that to this case, can you? I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u204	I don't know what to find worse. I thought it was right that we had very serious debates about this, because that too was about the safety of students. How do you weigh eavesdropping the inspection against locking up students? It's just the way you look at it. I think that is both very serious. But I thought I understood from the last part of Mr Beertema's contribution that there may also be a certain degree of insecurity, so he said, I believe, if the quality of education is in order. But we can't reason like that, can we, Mr. Beertema?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u205	No. With Mr Van Meenen you always have to have a bit of a plain text, otherwise he loses it. I'm sorry about that. I asked a very fundamental question. Because of this growing wok culture, there is a kind of race for security in all educational institutions, especially in higher education. The words "safe space" already say everything. Everyone wants to be free of every millimeter of injury. I wonder if that doesn't go a little too far. That is the fundamental question I put to the Minister, but also to you. If I remember my own school career, elementary school and the HBS I've been on, then I haven't felt security for a moment, and neither have I at teacher training. Did that really bother me? Well, no. It's been very formal. That's the question I was actually asking. I didn't say security doesn't matter as the learning outcomes but... that's an oversimplification of this D66 Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u206	Yeah, clear. We are going to listen to Mr De Hoop of the Labour Party. I am just saying to Mr Beertema that Mr Van Meenen and Mr Beertema are a kind of fighting couple, a kind of Scenes from a Marriage, which apparently has been holding this debate for years. The floor is yours, Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u207	Mr. Chairman. Happy, nice and safe. The Labour Party wants children's education to be cheerful, fine and safe. School must be a safe place, no matter your orientation or who you are. Because that's yours, and that's nobody else's. But obviously that's not possible on the Gomarus. You'll only be a teenager, discover your sexuality and your orientation and then be told by your mentor that you can choose: either you tell your parents yourself that you're gay, or the school does it for you. And by the way, your parents are already downstairs. If you then understandably panic and want to flee, the care coordinator just locks the door. It is really hard to believe that this kind of practice takes place at a school in the Netherlands, only a year ago. The Minister says he finds it unacceptable that this has happened. Oh, thank God. But what do we see in practice? Ihbti students are still being bullied a lot more, according to research by Utrecht University and Groningen University. The rancid anti-gay statements still exist in some schools. It merely shows the need for the COC Rainbow Agreement. We have committed ourselves to the legal acceptance of schools for a reason, so that no one can be rejected on the basis of his identity. Like the COC, I want the learning of skills to promote lhbti acceptance to be mandatory at all teacher training courses, to strengthen the core goals and, of course, to end identity declarations. Mr. Chairman. Allow me to address young people and all the other young people who sometimes find it difficult to be themselves at school. I see you, just like a lot of other people see you too. And I'm proud of you, just like a lot of other people are proud of you. Discovering yourself is fantastic! Sometimes it feels like you're alone and it's confronting. That's why every school has to be cheerful, nice and safe. That's starting to be with you. It is now really time for action, to ensure that Article 23 goes along with his time, to put pupils at the centre of attention and to prevent children from ever being hurt in our country, even in this way. The Labour Party therefore calls for the amendment of Article 23 of the Constitution to put the child's interests first. It should be added that every child has the right to education, that education should promote equal opportunities, personality development and knowledge of basic values of the democratic rule of law, and that special education should be equally accessible to all children who respect the foundation of an educational institution. The PvdA is currently finalising the legislative proposal to amend Article 23 of the Constitution on these points and will submit it in the short term. In view of the Rainbow Agreement, previous motions on the obligation of acceptance and the prohibition of declarations of identity, we have good courage that this can further put the interest of the student, the student, at the heart of the matter. And that, that's the most important thing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u208	Thank you. There's been some interruptions. I would just like to point out that I would very much like to move on to the government's term, so I would like to be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u209	I'll be brief. I heard Mr De Hoop make an explicit reference to the obligation of acceptance. I am sure we will be able to discuss this in the light of the proposed legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u210	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u211	However, I have the impression that the concept of 'acceptance' between the nose and the lips has been greatly widened. It is not just about acceptance obligation in the sense that schools must allow pupils regardless of the philosophical view of parents, but I now understand that the acceptance obligation in Mr De Hoop's view also means that schools are obliged to propagate, accept and actively promote a homosexual or lesbian lifestyle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u212	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u213	May I ask the question like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u214	Well, you just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u215	Yes, but then Mr De Hoop can understand that with a yes or no. Do the schools keep the space to explicitly lay down as a norm, from their own identity, that the biblical relationship between man and woman, the marriage, which is between one man and one woman, is a lasting union? Do schools have the room to use this as a starting point in Mr De Hoop's approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u216	As far as the Labour Party is concerned, it cannot be said to a student that you may be gay, but you cannot be gay. Today I read an email from the COC with a vision of how a school in Kampen looks at the way the world should look. That vision is that being gay isn't okay and that you can't be a transgender because you have to keep your body the way God wanted it to be. If that's okay, I don't think you can be safe as a transgender person or as a gay man or woman at that school. I think we should find a way to get you to access that school, no matter what the values there are, when you're a student who respects those values of a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u217	Thank you for this explanation, but this is not entirely an answer to my question. My question is whether the school had the space to take the starting point and also to proclaim that the norm for marriage is the unbreakable bond between one man and one woman, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u218	Yes. The school keeps the space to find it, but should not have the space to give a statement on it. In principle, this should not be allowed to happen anymore, but we hear signals that it is still being put forward that this is not the intention at that school. I think you should find a way in which you accept that such a strictly reformed school doesn't like it, but that it shouldn't be the case that you are being harassed with it as a student. It may be a value, but that should not result in a student not feeling safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u219	What Mr De Hoop says is true. Students must always be safe. My question really is: how do you weigh Article 23? Article 1 states that a person must not be discriminated against. In my view, Article 23 is an effect. This means that groups must not be discriminated against either. I can also raise my children in a way I want. Does Mr De Hoop see that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u220	That's how I see it, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u221	Then one brief follow-up question. Which parent or institution flies with Article 23 in its hand and says: "I may cheer children, belittle them or something. I get to patch Article 1 on my boot, 'cause look, I got Article 23"? Are there any?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u222	I think there are schools hiding behind Article 23 by saying you can be gay here, but you can't be gay here. That gives me such an unsafe situation at a school that you shouldn't want to. There are examples. The Minister himself said this at a school two years ago, that schools have the right under the Constitution to express themselves in this way. We need to see if there's any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u223	Mr De Hoop advocated the modernisation of Article 23 and indicated in the PvdA's proposal that a number of articles should be added to it that look at how you deal with each other in schools, if I have read it correctly. My question to him is what changes to the Constitution actually add to social security at school, to the interaction between pupils and teachers, and to what you need to learn in a democratic rule of law is already in the law. You just indicated that boards are hiding behind Article 23. If they do, we can handle them legally. That's when they don't stick to the law. So my question to you is: what is the added value of such a change in the constitution if we are able to deal with governance on the basis of the legal framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u224	I do not think we can do that well enough now. We simply cannot do this well enough at the moment. It is precisely because of this constitutional change, precisely because of the obligation to accept it, that we can ensure it. I am absolutely convinced that the modernisation of Article 23 really offers a way for the perspective of students who really need to feel safe at school. That is why I also welcome the fact that the Rainbow Agreement is being embraced by more and more parties, including the CDA. I would also like to compliment you on that. I really feel like we're really going down the road right now to make every student feel safe at school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u225	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u226	Mr President, concluding. I don't think you'll change the current situation much if you change the Constitution. You don't change that much. What you do is change the law. We've done that in the past. We have strengthened the Law on Secondary Education and we have also strengthened the Law on Citizenship Education. We have taken this step to make group acceptance mandatory in schools. So again the question to Mr De Hoop: if that legal framework is already in place and you see that there is existing legislation for it, the citizenship legislation and the secondary education law, what does such a constitutional change mean in practice? Not much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u227	I am convinced that this constitutional change will prevent schools from hiding behind Article 23, precisely because they must also promote the basic values of the democratic rule of law in those schools. This means that discrimination against homosexuals can take place less in schools, and we can take real steps in this by amending the law. I would like to involve you in the future, if we are going to deal with this one. Maybe I'll change your insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u228	Thank you. We're gonna listen to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mrs Pouw-Verweij from the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u229	In response to what you said outside the microphone: a hard deadline, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u230	You only have four minutes. It's even worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u231	Okay, I'll get started soon. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to be very clear on behalf of my group. The legal obligation for schools to create safety for all children in school is a duty that cannot be affected. This applies to all children, so obviously also to lhbti children. At the school in question, things went very wrong here. Two students were put on the spot. They were placed in a room with a closed door and were told to share something with their parents, something they were not ready for. In retrospect, they describe that as traumatic and that's how it sounds. The image of a young girl crying and hyperventilating panicking under a table is something I get pain in my stomach. My group is appalled at this. These are young people in a fragile phase of their development, struggling with issues such as identity, relationships and sexuality, which are so cornered. This cannot and must not happen. It is therefore a good thing that the inspection has carried out an investigation. That is the essence of this debate. According to the school's confidants, there was such an unsafe situation that the care coordinator had to be involved, and there should be a conversation with the parents. On the basis of good intentions, it remains to be seen that numerous mistakes have been made in the procedure. Why was it strictly necessary to share the orientation of the pupils? Couldn't there have been any mention of risky contact with a fellow pupil without mentioning the sex of that pupil? Obviously, the school's gonna do this differently. There's another way, and there's another way. The school says it can't share a few details because of the duty of silence. And the inspection would rather investigate how the current situation is regulated than that of five years ago. So let us look forward. "Schools must form a safe environment where people know themselves loved and known. Let's put that first." For example, one of the students' calls was in an interview with the Reformatorisch Dagblad. My group fully agrees with this. The basis lies in safety, at all schools in the Netherlands. Apart from religious or ideological beliefs about marriage, relationships or other aspects of life, all pupils must feel safe at a school. In our view, and fortunately also in that of the student in question, this is compatible with Article 23 of the Constitution. Fortunately, this is also good in the vast majority of cases. But in cases where things are not going well, as in this situation, decisive action must be taken without hesitation. This brings me to a question. Can the Minister promise to make sure that this school, in particular, but also other schools, provides a truly socially safe environment? After all, the discussion should not be about precise wordings in reports, but about safety and acceptance that students actually experience. For now, I think there is nothing else to do but to wait and see what the school recovery plan will look like and how the board will proceed with the acknowledged errors. I understand that a recovery study will take place in January next year. We are therefore curious about the results and we agree with Mrs Paul's question as to whether it can be done more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u232	Thank you. I'll suspend for five minutes. Then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u233	We're gonna listen to the minister. We're all gonna do it short and pointy. I hope to see you leave this building in the near future. It is an important subject, but also important issues can be short and pointy. I understand the Minister has a number of parts. We're all trying to avoid the word "blocks," because that's a little sensitive. An introduction and then five topics, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u234	Yes. Mr President, I will take the Chamber with me for a moment in the minutes of the reply. I think that I am right to many of the questions that have been asked; thank you for that, by the way. After a brief introduction, I would like to comment on the inspection report, on the process and also on questions that have been asked about the content. Then I would like to address questions about the inspection report. Then I would like to comment on the faster picking up of signals about abuses, about which questions have been asked, including the role of inspection in them but also wider. Then I would like to address the promotion of a safe school environment for all pupils, and teachers, of course, everyone involved in the school. Then I have one last part of the answer that I referred to as 'others'. I shall deal with the questions relating to Article 23 and the declarations of identity. As far as I'm concerned, that's my layout.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u235	Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u236	Mr. Chairman. Briefly, the following. In the preparation of this debate I have, of course, also read many articles written about the case that is at the heart of today's debate. Of course, I have also read the NRC article once, but also articles from other magazines, including the Reformatorisch Dagblad. They have had a whole series in which opponents and opponents and so on and so on were all discussed. There was also a lot of emotion in those articles, which I understand by the way. I found the end of that show. I quote: "A feeling of safety begins with you accepted knowing as a human being. That doesn't fit in with sharp words. Here is work for all educators." I think those were wise words, words where the focus was on what should be at the centre, namely: the pupils, the children who were involved and involved. It also touched me, because I myself had spoken with a number of people who also came back in the NRC article and had heard from other former students of the school and from their own mouths what they experienced and how they experienced it, how it worked out on them, not only in the time they were at school but also in the years after. Mr. Chairman. A number of honourable Members have also referred to a recent report, namely that of the University of Utrecht and of the University of Groningen. Together they did that research and the results are really shocking. That so many students, Ihbti students do not feel safe and that there is even bullying behaviour by teachers, is really very intense. Your heart cries when you think about those situations, even when I think about what I have heard in the personal conversations of these students of the Gomarus. That's why I repeat the RD: here's work for all educators. But we are making it even wider: here is work for everyone who in any way bears a responsibility for ensuring a safe environment for students, especially for students with an Ihbti background. Can we guarantee 100% safety? I believe that we should make the most of this, that we should do everything in our power to offer this safe environment for children. That is what we must do: at home, at school, anywhere in the society where they are. That is also the approach I take to this issue, but also the way in which I will, from my administrative responsibility on behalf of the cabinet, address a number of very specific questions that have been raised. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the report. That report is solid. It is the school itself that asked for an investigation when the article of the NRC came out with the personal experiences of students; some of you also referred to it. I appreciate the school doing that. The inspection has started immediately, in accordance with the legal bases that are in place. The inspection doesn't just work out a little bit in the wild, just to put it down. No, the inspection will have a clear mission, which we have secured by law and regulation. In particular, Article 15 of the Education Supervision Act provides them with legal bases for carrying out such research. They've gone to work. I'll come back to the years before. You could say that, at the time the investigation was started, this did go by the book and the way we recorded it with each other. The inspection is conducting its independent investigation. I repeat, independent investigation. The inspection has produced a report on this matter and has spoken with many interested parties. In the end, the inspection based on these interviews has prepared a report containing recovery orders, as is the case with such investigations, if necessary. It sets out very concretely the shortcomings of this school. The school itself has also put its own hands into this. The school has indicated that many things may go well at that school, including in terms of quality and safety. A lot of students feel safe. But the next thing should be central, because this can never be an excuse to do your job on other parts. It has been pointed out that mistakes have also been made and that there is work to be done for these educators, for those who are involved in the school, and that work needs to be done on this. When the draft report was finished, of course the school was able to give its views. That's the way it's supposed to be. You found it later, too, when it went public. The school has indeed made some comments. That room's here. This will also be fully public and may be part of further discussions that will take place afterwards. But the school has taken one other step. They have tried to stop the publication of the report through the amenities court. That right has a school. This has been included in our regulations. But in the end, the amenities court gave room for the inspection, let me put it this way, to make the report public. That's how it happened. I have already been able to tell you that the school board has indicated that we are now getting to work on the recovery assignments that have been given. The administration of the school is, of course, the one who is addressed, also in accordance with the way in which we have organised supervision. I can tell you that at the moment there is already a concept approach at the school to get to work on it. By the way, they have already started on parts. That word "concept" will go off in October, so next week. Then the inspection will take another stand in mid-November, because indeed: the sooner it can, the better. I think that was also a question from Mrs Paul. In January of this year, it will also simply have to be ready and the investigation will then take place to assess whether the school has finally done what we can ask them to do in accordance with the laws and regulations that we have in this regard. Mr. Chairman. This is how we decorated it with each other. Some of you have pointed this out. Still, there was one thing bothering me. This article came in this calendar year. The problem identified, which has been very serious for students, took place in 2016. So a number of years have passed. How is that possible? A number of Members of Parliament have asked me to do so. There is no real reporting obligation for abuses like this. There are parts in which a school, if it finds that in the school, is obliged to report directly to the inspection. That doesn't include this sec. That does not mean that you cannot expect a school to report it to the inspection when such matters arise. They also have a contact there. This was not done in 2016. That didn't happen in 2019. In 2016, the board indicated that they didn't really know what was happening, that it had stayed at a lower level in the school, so to speak. But in 2019, when a former student went back to the school, the board knew that and then it didn't. In 2020, the four-year inspection survey was conducted, organised according to the new method that started in 2017, as you know. Then the question is always asked, in general terms, even when it comes to social security: are there any details you have to report? That's when they kept quiet. So you see that it's very complicated to get moving eventually, at the moment when there's no talking. I think it should be different. I think that this kind of thing simply needs to be reported. Mr. Chairman. The initiative law of Bishop, Rog and Van Meenen, which also deals with inspection supervision, is now a number of years old and needs to be evaluated, as stated in the law and that has been agreed. That is going to happen very quickly now. I suggest to the Chamber that I take this part with me in order to make arrangements in that evaluation that if a situation such as this arises, there should simply be a notification. As far as I am concerned, the list of subjects to be reported should be extended. Then we can avoid situations like this, where people do not report actively. We have no legal basis to say that they should have done so, at most in the case of the study that did not take place until 2020. Then we'll have more in our hands, I guess, to get there faster too. That is only one side of the matter, because of course it is not just a question of reporting a school. I shall come back later to the fact that I believe that much more is needed and can also be done to speed up the picking up of signals about abuses, and to have a climate in a school that can also be discussed more quickly. At times when you don't feel safe, it's also very difficult to open your mouth to say something about something you experience as unpleasant. We have a responsibility for this too, but I will come back to the third block in a few moments, about the faster picking up of signals. Mr. Chairman. The report has been independently established. I think it would be very bad if we were going to take things out, criticize that report in a daylight that it wouldn't be right. This is the work of the inspection. That is what we asked for from the inspection. It even has a legal basis. On that basis, we must now act simply. The inspection is not a party that when something happens in a school as a kind of referee and says: it is right or it is not or you name it, how you see that in mind when you think of a case like this or perhaps others. The inspection looks at the implementation of the adequacy requirements, and that of course has everything to do with the Education Supervision Act, how it went, how the school set it up and how it was secured so that those things that we ask of a school also take place. On that basis, the report is also built up. Once again, I am pleased to stress this, and I would also like to congratulate the school on the fact that, after the judge had spoken, we have just started to work, and so now, in view of the children, we are also in the process of carrying out the recovery assignments. Mr. Chairman. Specific questions have also been asked about a section of the report, namely how to deal with the coulance regime. That has also been part of the trial, the interim proceedings that have taken place. By the way, that's all public information. So you can find exactly what has been said and what the judge has said about it. There is still a difference of opinion with the school as to whether or not this should be financed from public funds. So these are not own resources. The inspection considers that it should not have been financed in this way, and I share that view. A recovery will therefore take place. It is an amount of €2,500 which in any case should not have been paid out of these funds. A school sometimes also has its own resources, but these resources should not have been spent on them. That amount will therefore be recovered. The inspection will do that. Mr. Chairman. Then the report. I'm saying, that's pretty intense. I was able to answer Mr Bishop's questions today. That was just as hard work, because the deadline lasted even longer. It has occurred a number of times, but not very often, and it is also the first time it occurs on this ground. When there is a suspicion of a criminal offence, the inspection is indeed obliged to report it. What has been included in the school policy documents, in any case, is clearly relevant to this. I thought it was Mr Wassenberg who came back to that a number of times in interruptions. I look at the defense of the school, it is said to have been a dead letter, but it was there, but also the fact that at least the inspection suspects that unequal treatment has taken place. A report is pretty intense. In this way that has not happened before, but when there is a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence it will... Maybe it will happen more often, but let's hope not, because we would prefer it not to happen. The state's attorney's office is now considering it. In the end, it will have to decide whether or not it will continue. I hope, also for the school, that this will be clarified as soon as possible. But that's up to the state's attorney's office. Mr President, perhaps also a personal note. I've been there personally. You are well aware of this: that debate in November on the Citizenship Act. I have explained how fundamental rights work and the relationship between fundamental rights. We then came to talk about the identity statements. At that moment I honestly didn't know if they were still there and what exactly was in it, because it had suddenly arrived on the table. Then I was too instrumental in my response. I think it is a mistake of my own; it might be good to say a few words about it, just in this Chamber. I have explained to you that my job is how the Constitution works, that there are conflicting fundamental rights and that you have freedoms, but also that the freedom you have must never be a reason to take the right of another person out of his hands. You remember the discussion. Look at the report. I would also recommend this to Mrs Simons, because she has now put something in my mouth that I have not said. We've done that very carefully with each other. As a result, when the impression arose, I gave rise to it myself, so I would approve that, if homosexuality was rejected in statements of identity, parents would sign it, but that was not the case. The only thing I did in the end is ask Mr Kwint if he wanted to continue his motion, so that I had some time to figure it out. The request to keep it has given the impression that I would therefore agree with it. Well, those of you who were there know that that wasn't my words at all. Anyway, that has had quite a dynamic and it has even led to declarations in my direction. So be it. It happens. Those reports said that I had said things I hadn't said. Plus: In a public debate in a Chamber, of course, there is also an immunity. By the way, it really took a long time for the Public Prosecutor's Office to say that it would not proceed further. But I also know personally what that means. That's not good. I hope, therefore, for the school too, that it will be clear soon. We also know that, should the Public Prosecutor's Office carry out further investigations, the case will be looked at with other eyes. Anyway, we're gonna see what's gonna come out of that eventually. Mr Van Meenen asked whether this should not be standard practice. If there is any suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed, then it will simply be reported. By the way, that is something that every Dutchman has to offer. The same applies to the inspection and to the Ministry. That has happened in the past. In this case, the inspection has done so. I have been informed of this by means of a notice of office, but also by my colleague, Mr Van Engelshoven. The school has also been informed. We'll see how that goes. Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions about faster picking up signals about abuses. I have already said one thing about this, namely that I think that if something like that happens, a school should just report it. Then the inspector who's attached to a school can just talk to them and see what happened. One just needs to report it actively. So now there is no obligation. There's a list of obligations, like I said. For example, if it's a suspicion of a sex crime, then you're really obligated to report it directly. Think also of suspension and removal. We are also going to look at this in terms of competence requirements, but we are going to look at it separately. So that is what we come back to when we evaluate the law. That'll be early '22. Secondly, Mr Van Meenen said that we have experience with the fact that the inspection does not pick up signals. I think he was thinking about the same case as me: VMBO Maastricht. I'm going there on Monday, by the way. Things are going incredibly well there at the moment. That school really did a huge job. It's also nice to be able to say that here. As a result of Maastricht, we have made agreements. We've kept it. It's really changed. The inspection is no longer waiting for a lot of signals to come in on a subject, so to speak, to see what to do. That was actually the situation at VMBO Maastricht: a few signals had been received. It is now decorated in a different way, which means that individual signals are actually picked up faster. But they have to be given, don't they? Those signals are therefore involved in the inspection monitoring that is taking place. It is also very good to include such signals. But you can also act faster if you need to. We also made sure that the inspection had more people to do so. A number of FTEs have been added, specifically for this section. Nevertheless, it did not work here, because there was no signal either. Of course, that is where it stands or falls in the end. We can want a lot and organize a lot, but there has to be a signal coming in. I can't help but... We also just looked back: did we miss something or something? But it really did not come out until one of the students involved, even though it has become more, made public through the newspaper what took place at the time. The discussions on picking up signals have already been held and are being intensified. In addition, and this is what we are going to do in practice, we want more frequent consultations between inspection, Stichting School & Security and organisations representing the interests of gay people, including the COC. They should simply meet more frequently. They will then be able to communicate with each other what they see from their perspective. I'm thinking of a COC, but of course there are more of those organizations. They come to schools and hear things. They can then share what they hear with the inspection but also with the School & Security Foundation. I am convinced that these agreements are now being made that if you have regular consultations on them, that also, where necessary, will allow you perhaps to act faster than in the situation where you have to wait until you get back to school. I would like to mention three more things, Mr President. We've been working for a long time to raise the profile of the trust inspector in the school. Perhaps the Chamber will remember, I tell you, Mr President, that not long ago I sent a letter to the Chamber following the National Youth debate. I came into that conversation with young people about the confidant. In fact, it turned out that she or the threshold was too high or sometimes didn't even know where the threshold was. In short, they were very unknown to it, and if they knew who it was, they would not even dare to go there. Of course, that's not good. We are talking to those who, from their professional point of view, are responsible for trust inspectors. We're trying to get rid of barriers there. We are also in the process of removing the grounds of trust inspectors when they are required to make a notification. I have just indicated that a report should be made if there is a sex crime, but we also want a report to be made if there are suspicions. In this respect, therefore, we are considering whether we can lower the threshold to inspectors of trust by means of specific agreements, but that must also change in school cultures, which is more difficult than making agreements. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meenen asked for unexpected visits. I get that. I think he brought that up when we discussed the frameworks of the administrative instruments before the law. I didn't organize it that way myself, but it just so happens that that law came to you today. Last Friday it was dealt with in the Council of Ministers and after the King had signed it, it was sent to you further. During that debate Mr Van Meenen tabled the motion. The inspection has now re-established a monitoring framework, which includes the basis on which it conducts investigations. I believe that this is with you and a written round is taking place. That is now part of the inspection action. We want to get rid of the four-year routine. It will last well in some schools, but there are also schools where you have to go more, where you have to go at other times and where you sometimes have to go unexpectedly. This is now part of the monitoring framework from which the inspection does its job. Then the last thing I want to say about picking up signals faster. You can see that we can work on different lines, but that the basis is every time or is spoken and whether one feels free to speak. That's what it's all about in the end. We can do everything we can to promote this and offer it easy-to-access opportunities. Let me give you an example before I mention the very last one: conversations with the children's phone. You've got The Child's Phone "Just" called "Just" but you also have Chris, who is a bit more for the Christian world. That's where kids can do their stories anonymously. One must know that they can refer, know when to refer and know that they can ask children to move. Again there are opportunities that may not always be exploited. Of course, that's hard to see. There's a lot going on in confidence and confidentiality. But that would be nice. Next month, in October, you will receive the evaluation of the Social Security Act, which entered into force several years ago. The evaluation is almost done. I would like to suggest that I write down the parts of the things that I am referring to here before you too, so it will come to you very quickly and that we involve them in the treatment of the Social Security Act so that we can take a break. Perhaps there are many more additions that can be very helpful for the purpose. I believe that we have this goal in common: we want these children to feel safe, that everyone involved also contributes to it, and that preventive action is taken if necessary. That is what we want to achieve with each other. That's about picking up signals faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u237	Shall we just continue to promote a safe climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u238	Mr President, I would certainly like to do that. With the evaluation of the Social Security Act, I have, I think, already mentioned a very important aspect, which was first addressed in this way a few years ago. There has been a school-wide assignment of citizenship formation to contribute to this later. That is not something that can only be addressed by a government, for example. No, it applies widely to all those involved in the school, who will have to contribute to it. In order to further promote a safe school environment, it is important that schools know what to do. The Citizenship Education Act entered into force on 1 August. I am proud that we were able to achieve this with each other in corona time, with both the Second and the First Chambers. The Citizenship Education Act gives schools a broader remit, especially when it comes to this section. So that gives schools much more guidance on what they are asked to do. That's called for from all schools, no school excluded. Each school must comply with it, including schools that are not publicly funded. They also fall within the scope of this law. The Van den Hul c.s. amendment has been included. I dissuaded that amendment, but not because of its content; it might be good to add that. You know that there were three values at the heart of the law: equality, freedom and solidarity. This amendment would specify one value and be incorporated into the law by means of amendments, but we wanted to do so by means of other rules for all three values. By unpacking one, it seemed like it was the most important thing and the other wasn't important. That is a bit of an instrumental discussion; I am well aware of that which we have had with each other. I have also noted that almost all the groups in the Chamber, including the Christian Union Group, voted in favour of this amendment. Now that's got his place in the law. I have also noted that it was greeted in the First Chamber with jubilation. How many times that amendment has been mentioned! You should read the report. In the First Chamber, which is responsible for monitoring the quality of legislation, it was not experienced as a problem that only one part had been taken out of it. That's to reassure you in your direction. Mr. Chairman. I think that in recent years we have arranged a great deal to promote a safe school environment, to ensure that the school is safe for all pupils, but also for teachers and support staff, no one excepted. But paper is paper; it has to be done in practice. It is therefore important that we follow this practice very closely and that, where we can, we see if we can move together to come up with an offer towards schools. I have tried this through the profile organisations, but unfortunately I have not succeeded in doing so. It is very important that those around those schools should wear it and carry it out and make a strong commitment to it. It has not been possible to do so jointly through the profile organisations. We are in the process of supporting the schools in all kinds of ways to get to work in a very concrete way. We also do this through the Foundation School and Security. Then there is certainly a task for schools where there is a certain tension between views, also about relationships, and what we simply ask of them by law. They have a right to find things. By law, we ask you to make the most of a safe school climate. That's even a legal assignment. Those schools, too, may have to get to work, perhaps more than other schools will perhaps have to go back to work on other subjects in order to put that into practice. We follow this closely, through the inspection, but also in other ways, if there are abuses there. I found the theme research of Utrecht University and the University of Groningen really intense. I think most of you have seen that research and that teachers were part of it. That's very annoying for teachers, too. Of course, you feel appealed if you haven't done that yourself, but that then your target group, your professional group, comes out of such a report. As a part of bullying children, to put it that way. I also know that the VO Council has said not to recognize itself in everything, but to take it seriously. Of course, that's very good. In any case, that has given me reason to take up this investigation as soon as possible, together with our own social security investigations. For example, I would like to do some more in-depth research on this issue. I cannot fully see when that is done, but I will send it to you as soon as possible so that we can discuss it further. This includes all the evaluations that are repeated over and over again into the state of social security. As you know, we are doing specific research on this. I thought it was Mr Kwint who asked: do we still have to do a very specific study, only on these schools? Those schools will, of course, be part of that research. So let's get to work. I also want to do the research more broadly, because we should not see this kind of research by the University of Utrecht and the University of Groningen as an excuse for "what happened there at that one school." Please don't! This problem can be found in more schools. I think Mr Bishop was right to point that out. This kind of research shows that we really can't sit back. So I'm gonna get on with that. As soon as we finally have that in our possession, I will send it to you. Of course we take these schools with us. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the promotion of a school environment also begins in the training of teachers. I think the honourable Member from Volt asked me a question about this. In the training of teachers you should pay attention to this subject. When it comes to this subject, it is always said that politics is not about the curriculum of colleges. This is without prejudice to the fact that, of course, we always have the opportunity to ask for the attention of the colleges to be given to topics as well. I will ask my colleague Van Engelshoven to discuss this with the representatives of the colleges of applied sciences, including your questions. I think it is indeed a good thing that these representatives are aware of the responsibility that teachers who are trained ultimately bear when they come to the classroom. With regard to the curriculum, I can report that sexual diversity and so on, and so on, is also part of the curriculum adjustment. Your Chamber knows how that works. I sincerely say to you, with due regard for all the sensitivities surrounding it, that it would be very good if we could be clearer in a number of parts about what we expect from schools, about what pupils should know and can know. That is why it would be nice if we could make progress in this process again in these years to come, because some things are really unclear. This affects the quality of education, but it also affects, if you are not careful, the safety of education. If we have a responsibility to move forward, it would of course be very bad if we did not take that responsibility together. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Rule 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u239	Let's start with a few more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u240	This indeed sounded like the end of a block. First of all, I have a practical question about the report on the safety of Ihbti young people in schools. I do not know how far this is going to go, but can it logically be involved in the evaluation of the Social Security Act or is it a little too far apart over time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u241	That report's already there. That is an independent study of two universities, so that can always be involved. It's not a report that came to you through us. My colleague Mr Van Engelshoven and I have taken up this report because we think it is important that we do not just accept such in-depth investigations with any results for notification. So we are also going to do an additional study to have even more focus on the question: what does that mean in concrete terms, what does that mean? I don't know if that'll be done by then, but it'll be done as soon as possible. But that is without prejudice to us having to talk about the law in the first place. Of course, that depends a bit on your ambition. It's coming next month, but that doesn't mean we're treating it the same way. I've seen that last a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u242	I recognize that. Then there is another point about school identity statements. I don't know what block that's in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u243	I don't use the word "block." That's a forbidden word. But it comes in the last part of my answer. That's the part I started right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u244	It's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u245	Okay, I thought it was social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u246	I'll say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u247	Mr. Van Baarle still?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u248	I can't use the word "block" anymore, but it's about the signals. I am pleased that this Minister has indicated that there will be an obligation to report. I think that's very useful. But the rest of his contribution was very focused on the need for these signals to be sent to the inspection. Of course, that's one side of the story. But the other side of the story is: shouldn't the inspection proactively pick up some more of that kind of data? That's one of the questions I asked. For example, if the inspection says more often "let that research into apprenticeship satisfaction or how former students talk about this school," and they would have done so in this case, they might have found out sooner. Does the Minister share that inspection should do so more often?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u249	The inspection shall also ask for such documents. Schools do indeed investigate the well-being of their students. This school can even indicate that student satisfaction is very high. But that is without prejudice to the fact that something has not been reported there. This has finally come to light from reports from former students. The inspection must do as much as possible. I have just said, through the President, also in the direction of Mr Van Meenen, that his speech at the time, about the need to respond much more quickly to individual signals, is really proof of that. Indeed, this calls for much more action from the inspection, also in order to speed up the pick-up on the signals they receive. The inspection will be given more responsibilities, including with regard to the implementation of the citizenship law, because we are asking for more schools. Schools should even make plans to include this part, the safe school environment and equality. It will have to be ensured how the school gives hands and feet to it, that it does not only happen in a classroom during a classroom, but simply broad in school culture. So there's more to it than that. The inspection will have a more active role in this. Eventually it also stands or falls to express what has happened, of discontent, or whatever words you would like to use for it. Those involved are, of course, the first to move. I have indicated that we are actively working to see whether we can remove the thresholds they experience in practice as much as possible and that we want to use the opportunities to pick up those signals. We want that wider than just what's happening in the school; think about what I just said about The Child Phone. The inspection should, of course, eventually be the one to take it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u250	Yes. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u251	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I fully share what the Minister says about the need to send signals to the inspection. The Minister states that checking for that safe school environment is already part of what the inspection does. My question is: is that standard? Is that risk-oriented? Let me give you an example. If in this case the inspection had asked to show that research on former pupils, it would have found that an above average number of pupils indicated: do not go to this school. There's gonna be bells ringing. Wouldn't it be a good idea for the inspection to request that kind of data more proactively? Because then we don't have to wait for the signals to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u252	You know the supervisory framework as well as I do. The new supervisory framework, which is currently with you and which we may be going to discuss further, also includes risk-oriented research. We also sometimes know, because of what has happened in the past, that there are certain problems in certain schools. That can be very broad; you know that. I don't just have this case of Gorinchem in mind. Many more things have happened in recent years in public schools and in schools for special education, with all that variety. As part of its assessment of schools, the inspection also has that risk-oriented research. Sometimes they also do thematic research. This is precisely where this has happened. That was Mr Kwint's motion. There has been an extensive thematic study, which was critical of the fact that there were far too many special education schools involved. But there were also public education schools involved. This has ultimately led to a number of very concrete assignments and advice to schools in order to get to work. So there are really many different ways of looking at it and actively promoting that the safe environment for every student, teacher and other people involved in the school is really there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u253	I welcome the clear words of the Minister so far, what he says about the importance of the safety of pupils and also the obligation to report on what he is talking about. I think it is very important that the inspection should always get those signals. So this action by the Minister is really nice. I would like to ask him: can we do more to remind students that there is a confidant? If it's okay, students need to know. The point is that they may also be able to do their story with an external confidant or at a hotline. I took a look at what's in the school guide. It says that schools must have a safety plan. I couldn't find the exact meaning of that. Is it an idea to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u254	I just said something about that. I have come into contact with young people about this person of confidence, just because of a debate contest. I think I've had two or three follow-up talks with them. They were no longer about the debate techniques, but about the content. It was really relevant and it related precisely to this. I also mentioned this in the letter. I propose that we continue the debate on this at the time when we are talking about social security. I think there's a win in the school. But I don't think you should say to the school right away that that's never gonna work. That was a bit of the students' approach. They thought, "I don't want to go to school." No, we are going to work first to put those in the school who are responsible for this in a position that is in place and that there is also awareness of their position. It is also important that they can live up to the word "confidence person" in practice and that they have the confidence of the students. Really, sometimes the students didn't know who it was. Or it's a name from the school guide, because it's gotta be in there. I also think it is important to show students the way out there. That's why I've been involved in those conversations with the Child's Phone, and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u255	Yes. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u256	We were informed today of an external hotline involving one of the students of this school. That might also have been announced in the schools. If you have questions about your identity or who you are, you can go to external hotlines, where people who understand the matter know how to talk to you. They can help with that, too. Maybe it's an idea to take that to the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u257	I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u258	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u259	To involve that and see how that could complement what we are doing. But not to replace, because I really want to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u260	You wanted to say something about Article 23. That may be, because many have mentioned it, but I do not think this is the time for a fundamental debate on Article 23, five to six on Thursday afternoons, to pass through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u261	Mr President, you are taking the first sentences out of my mouth, because that is what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u262	Then I'm reading your text again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u263	That's okay. I didn't write it out, but that was the text I wanted to say. That is, of course, a very fundamental debate. I do not want to end up again in an instrumental debate on Article 23. This debate is about how we can be there for these students. We are all, in this Chamber and beyond, concerned about what happened in the specific case we are discussing today. I'd like to say one thing about it. Those who have followed me over the past few years are the spokesmen of education and know that I always speak with two words. The freedom of education is me, and the cabinet, very sweet. Look at the coalition agreement, which even contains passages about this. But freedom is a responsibility. You can never hide one-sidedly behind that freedom if you don't also give substance to that responsibility. I think I agree with Mr. Kwint, although it may not be quite literal. If you appeal to the freedom of education but in practice do not fulfil your responsibilities, then you are self-employed to hollow out that freedom. Then you're actually not even worth having that freedom. This means that, in recent years, I have also come your way in a number of areas of legislation, particularly with regard to this responsibility, for example with regard to the safety of pupils. But in the opinions of the Council of State, you read that there was also tension with regard to freedom. We need to find our way in that, but I think the Citizenship Law is a clear proof of that. With the Law more room for new schools it was also about freedom, but we even went so far as to take the principle of direction out of it. So the principle of direction is no longer a guiding principle when starting schools, but we are looking at it in a different way. We also put a lot of demands on schools at the front, which one really has to meet before one, so to speak, gets the opportunity to start a school. Perhaps we are going to talk about this at another time, because there are other aspects attached to its implementation. This also affects the freedom of education. Then there's the law you got today. For the sake of clarity, may I refer you to the report of the Council of Ministers on Friday, as you always do today? It briefly summarizes what is to be found in that law. I am also referring to Mrs Paul, who asked questions about this, through the President, for which the law is intended. If our ordinary systems of approach and action, as I say, as we see at this school today, get stuck in the sand because schools, for example, refuse to carry out repair assignments, I'm saying it a little harsh, but I don't think it will apply to this school, then the current legislation and regulations will end up in a very long-term trajectory. You know that. This will be a process of re-demanding and then the inspection can even apply a financial discount. If they deliver something extra then it's off the table again, and then you move on, and then there's another investigation. This law offers the opportunity to act more quickly if there is genuinely systematic failure to act in accordance with what we have agreed on and if, for example, serious situations do not arise against which no action is taken. Then we can act faster than we have been able to do in recent years, of course within the framework of our laws and regulations. I have faced a number of cases in recent years. I think Mr Van Baarle mentioned a number of examples. We were very lucky in a single case, that's what I call it, that eventually the school guides were thrown out at us so that we could do our job. If that hadn't happened, the damage would have been huge. I want the instrument box of the inspection and the government to have instruments to act when it is really necessary, in extreme situations. You read in the law that we have supported that, too. So the goal is to shut down schools? That's never a goal. The only thing a government can do is stop funding. This sometimes leads de facto to the closure of a school. That doesn't necessarily have to be the case. This concerns the issue of how we can deal with our instruments, with regard to administrative instruments, which we hope can be dealt with quickly. The cabinet has had the boldness to offer you this bill in the missionary situation. We have done so, even though we are outgoing, because the Chamber has asked for it by a large majority. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the whole debate on admission policy, Article 23 and the obligation to accept it. I have just indicated that I do not think we should end up in an instrumental discussion. It is in line with what I have done over the past few years and also with how I look not only at freedom, but also at responsibility, but I have therefore commissioned extensive research into admission policy. That had not happened for years, but you received 18 December 2020. All schools accessible: an open door? is a comprehensive report. This is about admission policy, and it shows that the biggest obstacle to the refusal of pupils is the admission capacity. That could be from the direction, but it could also be from the school's institution. So I'm talking about the p.o. The second is the need for support and the duty of care. Indeed, in that list there are schools that ask not only for respect but also for consenting to the identity of the school. This may sometimes be a reason why a student is not admitted. It's a limited percentage, but well... On the basis of the principle, I can well imagine that you say: even if there are only a few, it is a principle, and that is what we want to talk about. You've had that report for a few months. We haven't talked about it since. Of course, there are other reasons for this. But also in the context of tackling segregation, for which I also made a firm agenda, also at the request of the First Chamber and then very specific GroenLinks there, it is important to look very closely at what is going on there. I also recognised what Mrs Bikker said, namely that practices occur in cities, namely pre-notifications of children who were not yet subject to compulsory schooling. In Utrecht we have had a very concrete discussion. I thought Mr Van Meenen even asked questions about it. Those pre-proposals are a sort of shadow list and it became official at once when the birthday date was there. That is not acceptable and fortunately the alderman, a good alderman in Utrecht, has acted hard against it. So there's a lot going on. That is why it is also very good to take a broad look at what we can do to promote accessibility and, wherever possible, to ensure that, whatever the argument, we take away what is improper. For the rest, it is a political debate on Article 23. I remember, by the way, that the Chamber adopted a speech-expression on this point. She said that we are not going to "harass" the cabinet with that anymore. I also remember that a debate had been reported, but you yourself took that off the list. But I can inform you that next week the Education Council will be presenting a report on Article 23. I'm allowed to receive it. So I am also looking forward to debates on these subjects, because it is very worthwhile. It is a fine achievement of our parliamentary democracy to discuss it with each other. One comment on Rule 23 in the direction of Mr Van Baarle. He was waving copies of textbooks. I heard him say that Article 23 is nice to him. He also said something about the acceptance obligation. Article 23 (6) says something about school books and freedoms. Does that mean anything's okay? No! But there is freedom, a constitutional freedom. We have talked about this more often, mostly on the basis of cases put forward by Mr Beertema. I understood the background to that, by the way. At the moment when there are really things happening in school books in any way that are criminally just really out of line, there can always be action. But that is broad and I think Mr Van Baarle knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u264	That seems to me to be far too late, but we are not going to have that discussion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u265	We're not going to feed them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u266	There was a reason why I came to the Social Security block to ask the Minister a question about the declarations of identity. I want to look at it from that side, from the safety of the students at school. The Minister referred to the fact that we had a strong discussion about these declarations of identity and what it sometimes contained. But if you find now that parents are still being asked to sign a statement asking children to behave in accordance with that declaration of identity, then... And that statement of identity also includes that relationships between husband and wife are reserved. You need to dress for your gender and that kind of thing. Is the Minister not afraid that it can still have the same negative effect as the previously chosen passages in the declaration of identity? Doesn't it still create an unsafe climate for some young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u267	First of all, the question that had remained about the declarations of identity. I'll take it with me at once. The declarations of identity we spoke about on 9 November are no longer there in this way. It really rejected homosexuality, even on paper, and parents had to sign it. Turns out some of them are still on the Internet. They've all been taken off. The representatives of these schools have also indicated that they no longer wish to do so. What Mr Kwint puts his finger on is the tension field that exists. I just told you that myself. There is indeed a field of tension between opinions... Anyway, any school can write something about its own identity. You have that right. It is not the case that there is a ban on declarations of identity, only we look closely at the content. That's the tension field I was talking about. If you have certain views about relationships and how to shape them, then you have freedom in the Netherlands if you do not want to do so, we need to further adapt the Constitution in order to find something about them. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar die scholen zullen zich — en dat is, nogmaals, een enorme opdracht voor die scholen — maximaal moeten inspannen om dat veilige schoolklimaat voor leerlingen inhoud te geven, ook voor leerlingen die met betrekking tot dergelijke onderwerpen — ik zeg het maar even in mijn eigen woorden — er anders in staan en andere opvattingen hebben.]] It is quite difficult to do this with each other in a good way, but that is the task facing the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u268	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u269	The schools know that too, and we must also ensure that this is done in a proper and orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u270	I've also read compelling lecturers' stories about it. For example, the AD and the Reformatorisch Dagblad have paid a lot of attention to how this struggle sometimes runs. But I'm not so much concerned with whether a school should have an identity or not. I am concerned that children, as with the statements we were talking about earlier, are still faced with the fact that their admission to that school is conditional. Their parents must first sign a declaration in which they endorse this type of thing. Then it is true that the explicit reference to homosexuality as it stood is out, but parents still sign, for example, that a relationship should only take place between husband and wife. Have we really made so much progress for those students?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u271	I was also struck in the first term by the words of Mrs Westerveld, who was open about it from her own background and gave something of what she saw in struggles. What I see in these schools is indeed that things are on edge, I would almost say, with regard to what can and cannot be done. But I also see a sincere search for wisdom. That is a deep, intrinsic belief that, as you know, also hides Biblical views. I also see that this is trying to be linked to whatever one feels intrinsically, namely that there must be a safe place for students; that there must be room for their further development, even when it comes to their sexual identity and even if it may differ from what the school has as its norm. I believe that we should give maximum support to these schools, but we should also continue to monitor how that develops. We can now cut all kinds of declarations of identity with scissors, but I also think that these are the subjects that are being discussed, and the inspection also knows that there is a need to discuss them in the talks that are now taking place with the schools. Not just with these schools. We need to look at how this tension field is being dealt with. What does that mean in practice? I know that after everything that has happened, this subject has also been dealt with very firmly and has thus also been conducted internally, which has also led to the approach that is now being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u272	The minister's on his talk chair pretty bad right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u273	Yes, but this is listening closely, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u274	You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u275	And I am also pleased with these questions, because this is exactly what is happening in the practice of these schools and what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u276	Following on from the fact that the Minister answered my point about those examples of textbooks. At DENK we get a lot of emails from people in the country who quote those examples of textbooks. I ask the Minister to move himself into a Dutch boy or a Dutch girl from Turkish origin or from Dutch origin, who should read such assignments. That goes through your marrow and leg. I understand that the ability of the government to intervene is limited, given the Constitution. I understand that perfectly. But when you talk about your origins like that in a school book, it's a school book, so you think it's the norm, so it does something to you. I would like to ask the Minister the following. I also have a motion for that in preparation. Wouldn't it be good to have external, independent research on that for once, perhaps an academic research? How wide is this and what is the problem? Then we can talk about that again. Because the fact that we get so many e-mails about it shows that this does something to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u277	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Bertema knows what I'm going to say. The moment there's a problem, you've got different turns. What is happening now is that the national government exit is taken. I have just indicated what we have laid down in legislation and regulations, and even in our Constitution. As long as it is still in place, that is also what I have to assume, including in the assessments I myself give when such cases are presented to me. But there's a turnoff you can take a lot sooner. That's in the school. Each school has a participation council. We made that legal. Each school has representatives of pupils, parents and teachers, who have the task of discussing what is happening in the school with the competent authority. The moment such things happen, there are emotions. I can imagine those emotions very well. That's right, you're right. That doesn't matter to you. But that means that there must also be talk in that school. There must be such things on the table, because that is where the responsibility lies. That's where we need to look at each other: what are we doing here, including with regard to the student population we have? I am not saying this to push it away from us, you can even be supported in it, so to speak, but I ask you to actively point out to the people in all those e-mails the opportunities they have to address and change things in the school that are not proper in their eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u278	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u279	I get that. The Dutch system works in such a way that we can ask that of people in schools. But if on the other hand so many people in the Netherlands run into this, if it lives so wide, if it hurts people so much and I think it also adds something that is not good, then I think there is also a task for the government to give these people satisfaction and, for example, through such an investigation to see how wide this plays. I have a motion for it. I hope the Minister will be able to respond more positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u280	I think it's a little off today's subject, but all right, if the Minister wants to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u281	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Baarle may, of course, bring in what he wants, although of course you are guarding the order. I'm gonna wait and see that motion. I haven't seen anything yet. With motions, we don't always change reality in the country. Of course, the Chamber knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u282	Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u283	Yeah, I'm sorry. That would be fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u284	I think we've got breaking news now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u285	Then I'm gonna make a point, too, because then we've done enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u286	I thank the Minister for the open answer. I see how he's looking. At least I really appreciate that. I would like to move on to Mr Kwint's point of view on declarations of identity. I wanted to present a profile to the Minister, namely the profile of the school community Pieter Zandt in Kampen. It says: "Sexuality in the Bible has to do with forming an unbreakable union in a marriage between one man and one woman, and is given a place in the light of this." This formulation offers little opportunity for homosexuality. It also says: "God wants us to accept our body, which we have received from Him, and also in our appearance let us express the distinction between man and woman laid down in creation." How can you feel safe as a student who is transgender or gay when such a profile is still online at a school in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u287	In my view, there was just an interrupting debate on the same subject between you and Mr Peters; you did not specifically mention this case or this example. In that I heard you say: you have a right to views in the Netherlands, but you are obliged, even by law, to ensure a safe school environment. It is therefore also a very important task for a school like this to give substance to it. I just said the following. At the moment when schools like this are spoken and there are suspicions that things are not going as they should be, we are looking in all kinds of ways to support the schools in order to do it right. This is an example of a school with a big assignment. By the way, I know the school. I know that there is a full commitment to good and safe education, so it is an important task for them to give substance to that. They will also have to answer for this when it comes to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u288	Thank you for the Minister's reply. I do think that we should go on that search together with that school and that we should preserve that freedom. At the same time, I think that if you move in the perspective of a student, you must also acknowledge that as a student you cannot feel safe when something like this is literally on the website of a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u289	That must therefore also be the subject of discussion. How safe are students here? I'll come back to the beginning of my contribution: "A feeling of safety begins with your accepted knowing as a human being." That quote from the Reformatorisch Dagblad applies completely to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u290	I'm just gonna stand on the microphone beam with both feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u291	I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u292	I'm fine. I'm fine. It is indeed as Mr De Hoop has just said. I have to think about the conversation I had with one of the guys at the Gomarus. I think that reality is more relentless than the Minister would like. I think the Minister also knows that many of these children cannot turn to the participation council or anyone else in that school, nor can they turn to anyone at home. So it is a great burden they bear in solitude. My question is therefore: if you have so few places where you can really be yourself and where you can say that you feel unsafe and rejected, what can we mean to force those children to have a place, especially given the fact that there is so much suicide among young children?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u293	It is very clear here that every school has a duty of care, whatever school it is. We're allowed to hold schools to that, too. It's a very clear assignment for them, even a legal assignment, to comply with it. We'll see to that, too. We have even tightened that even further, including in the Citizenship Act. One really needs to do 'instrumental planning', that's what I call it. It is therefore necessary to show how this is done and to show that the school is also responsible in its broad sense for providing this safe school environment. It is indeed a very important task for these schools to give substance to it, but our laws and regulations are also fully applicable to them. We'll see to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u294	I understand the answer, but that is not enough in practice. Isn't it time for me to think on the spot that we're making up or setting up some kind of information campaign or something, so that these kids know what they're up to, that these schools have a duty and that those kids don't feel lonely and rejected? We need more information so that these children know better that these schools are actually creating the wrong environment and that they are not making the wrong choices in their lives. They are who they are and they have every right to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u295	I have just made an agreement with the Chamber that I will come up with a supplementary letter in the context of the evaluation of the Social Security Act, not only in terms of regulation but also in relation to the school environment. I'll give you that evaluation next month, by the way. I also think that this is a very appropriate time to continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u296	Back to the example where a school says and declares that marriage is reserved for husband and wife. When you're a student at a school like this and you're a man who likes men, for example, you find yourself in a difficult situation. Then the situation is that you are not seen by the school and recognized in who you are. I mentioned in my own contribution that I find it very difficult to reconcile that on the one hand, the school should provide a safe place for all students, that is what we have agreed with each other, and that the school on the other hand on the website can say in practice that it does not recognise who someone is. I wanted to ask the Minister how he sees that dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u297	This brings us back to the discussion we had with each other in November. We must also be careful not to do that instrumentally. There are freedoms, freedoms to have opinions, but students also have rights. That is also what is at the heart of today's debate. Those rights are that security must also be guaranteed for them, even if their views differ from the environment in which they live, in this case the school environment. We saw at the school in Gorinchem that the bail was insufficient. That is where we are now taking action, including repairs, so that we can assess in January whether this will be adequately secured in the school. Then again, it is not just something that has to be done on paper or not on paper, but that in practice you have to give hands and feet to it. That's a real challenge for those schools. They are literally struggling with that, but that is what we are asking of them and, by the way, of every school in the Netherlands where such situations occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u298	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u299	It's not just school wrestling with that. I think we're struggling with that because you can't do it both at the same time. You can't say that you want all students to be safe and allow schools on the other hand to deny the identity of students. That is a struggle which I do not think we have been able to discuss here in the Chamber. I do not want to say that we should do so in this debate. I'll take a look at the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u300	Whew! Whew!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u301	But this is at the heart of the whole discussion on Article 23. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that some schools do not use the freedom of education in an incorrect way, almost abuse it, in order to be able to put this kind of thing on websites and promote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u302	I can't see right away whether that's really the motivation to do it. It is also an expression of opinion. But what really shouldn't be is denying, rejecting an identity. A sexual identity is what a person is. You can't turn that down. That's why the discussion about the statements was so intense, because you actually asked parents to reject their child's identity. I think we've talked enough about that. That is not acceptable, and the schools themselves think so. That's done now. Then the tension between on the one hand is allowed to find something and on the other hand really remains the hard legal task to ensure that safety. I understand your questions. That also clashes, but that is, as I pointed out in the debate, a clash that can occur between fundamental rights and duties, as sometimes happens in other areas. It is precisely in the interests of the children that we really have the task of doing what I just mentioned again, so that they are accepted as human beings. That's an assignment for pedagogues being said here, for educators. The schools really have to give substance to that, no school except for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u303	I'd really like to go to the second term. On this one? Delicious. Is there a need for a second term? It's not an obligation. Mrs Paul has already signed off, but Mr Van Meenen is eagerly impatient for a second term. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u304	Mr. Chairman. We have an expensive duty to ensure a safe climate for every child. There are two lines I've described. One is that of the legislative process, including Article 23 of the Treaty on European Union, and the other is that of the inspection. On Article 23 we will return. I'm going to talk about the inspection now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a school is safe if the social, psychological and physical safety of pupils is not affected by actions of others;]] [[Whereas the Education Inspectorate does not, or hardly does, report to the Public Prosecutor's Office in cases of social insecurity;]] [[Whereas this has been done in the case of the Gomarus School Community;]] [[considers that this should not be an exception, but the standard;]] [[calls on the Government to implement a reporting obligation for the Education Inspectorate at the Public Prosecutor's Office in the event that the inspection finds that social security at a school is not guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Education Inspectorate does not now address individual reports and signals on safety in schools;]] [[considers that this may not be sufficient to ensure long-term safety at a school;]] [[Whereas this is a serious harm to the interests of young people;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Education Inspectorate to always work on individual reports and signals of insecurity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-483]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-484]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u305	Mr. Chairman. The Minister and I may be opposed to Article 23. I believe that we can indeed intervene more quickly in the field of inspection and social security. The steps have been taken, and I appreciate that. I also respect the struggle of educational institutions trying to bring their identities into line with the legal requirements, or at least try not to go beyond the limits of the law. But that does come with the time that students have not received on the Gomarus for example. They haven't had the time to finish their struggles; the parents were waiting about already outside. It puts vulnerable children at a disadvantage. And I would like to say again: we are going to have that discussion on Article 23. We'll do that later. So I do not want to restrict the identity of schools at the moment, but I do want the freedom to ask parents to endorse that statement. Why? Because it directly affects children's safety. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that schools may still require parents to sign an identity statement if they register their child;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit declarations of identity in education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr De Hoop and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-485]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My appreciation for the firm words of the Minister. I also appreciate that he considers this, of course, an unacceptable event. I think it is very positive that he also announces his intention to continue with this, by requiring the inspection to be notified in the event of violent incidents of this kind. Mr. Chairman. I continue to wrestle with the question I have just asked the Minister via the interrupting microphone. I find it very difficult to reconcile that on the one hand as a school you have to ensure a safe environment for all students, and on the other hand as a school, on the website but also actively, that you do not recognize the student in who he or she is. I know that this is a debate that we are not going to get out of, but I hope that we will discuss it a number of times in the coming years. We have to solve it from here, together with education, eventually. Because I think that is what we are obliged to do to students and to teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u307	Thank you. Mrs. Paul, would you like a second term? That is not the case. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Students must be able to be themselves, they must be able to be safe regardless of sexual orientation, regardless of gender. The Minister is happy to endorse that. That's to be commended. We must make every effort to prevent cases of discrimination or harassment of IHBTI students. But prevention is one, working on recovery and healing of injured, traumatized young people, students is just as important. That's why I have two short motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that lhbtiqa+ pupils in the Gomarus School community have been intimidated and bullied, causing trauma;]] [[noting that the psychologist of the ggz institution concerned contributed to the problem;]] [[Whereas such situations may also arise in other schools;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the need for aftercare and to draw up a plan of action to achieve an accessible recovery process for victims of the unsafe school environment in Gomarus and other schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that lhbtiqa+ pupils in the Gomarus School community have been intimidated and bullied, causing trauma;]] [[noting that the psychologist of the ggz institution concerned contributed to the problem;]] [[Whereas such situations may also arise in other schools;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate the victims of the unsafe school environment in Gomarus and other schools for the costs of psychological support, aftercare and recovery,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-486]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-487]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u310	Thank you. Mrs Gündoğan from the Volt Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u311	Speaking time is at -19 on the clock here in front of me. So I'm starting to catch up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u312	Yeah, well, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u313	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u314	I'm trying to lower the cathedral for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u315	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the social security situation of IHBTI young people in education is significantly worse than that of non-IHBTI young people;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake a mission to the Education Inspectorate to conduct specific thematic research into acceptance and social security in the field of sexual diversity and gender diversity, and to highlight the question of whether and to what extent these schools are implementing the new citizenship mandate and the key objectives in the field of sexual diversity and gender diversity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that with the adopted motion for a resolution Kwint c.s. (35352 No. 31) should have put an end to statements of identity in education in which homosexuality is rejected;]] [[Whereas, while it is no longer explicitly stated in declarations of identity such as those of the IGS that a "homosexual way of life" must be "rejected," these statements nevertheless implicitly reject a homosexual or transgender way of life;]] [[calls on the Government to effectively put an end to all declarations of identity rejecting a sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or gender traits (and life) in any form whatsoever, implicitly or explicitly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-488]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-489]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u316	I had a third, but I'm in the minus, so I don't think that's allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u317	It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u318	Yeah? Then I'm gonna talk real quick. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that not all teacher training aimed at foundational education has skills to promote respect for sexual and gender diversity;]] [[noting, for example, that these skills are not part of the curriculum of the ulo's and first degree teachers' courses;]] [[Whereas, in view of the renewed citizenship mandate, which has been in force since 1 August 2021, this should be the case;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with these training courses in order to promote the learning of these skills in all relevant teacher training courses as part of the curriculum, and to inform the Chamber of the outcome of the interviews,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-490]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u319	I have a question about the final motion. Two years ago, PvdA and I of GroenLinks tabled a motion asking for this exactly. There has also been an impact of the Minister on what has been done about it. Maybe Mrs. Gündoğan didn't know about this and I'd like to give her this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u320	No, I didn't. I don't have that archival knowledge. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u321	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm Then Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u322	Thank you, Mr President. A word of advice to Mr Gündoğan: a motion can always be withdrawn. So if the motion turns out to be superfluous, maybe that's a suggestion. Mr. Chairman. Why I asked for the floor actually has two reasons. The first reason is very important. A good parliamentary tradition requires that the ruler is always thanked for the answer. I think, then, let me take on that responsibility. Thank you for the careful answer and also for the openness in the debate. That's kind of tricky, but it's worth it. One more point I would like to highlight, and that is the sense of safety of students with a different orientation in a context based on other ideals. That will be a discussion which will be followed up in the future. I would like to be any colleague who would like to get tips or go on a road trip together to see how that can be shaped. There are really wonderful examples of how a very clear own stated position is treated respectfully with, and space is given to students who come into life in a different way. Because that is specific to puberty, especially in secondary education as a child develops and a little... Let me put it this way: a good school takes that into account. Mr. Chairman. That is a message I would like to share with colleagues. Thank you for your kindness and patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u323	Here's to it. Mr Peters of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u324	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, Your Excellency, for answering the questions. You've done an excellent job as far as I'm concerned. The part about reporting to the inspection, that that didn't go right right away and that we might do so via the COC or other appropriate... This will be a classic example of telepathy or great minds think alike, but this was kind of my motion. You kind of read it here, so before that. I'll skip that motion. I have another motion. I was almost afraid that Mr Van Meenen was going to table this motion, but he is just as different. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the school is responsible for the (social) safety and well-being of all its pupils;]] [[noting that there is a reporting obligation whereby schools are required to report incidents to the Education Inspectorate, but that the reporting obligation does not yet monitor matters relating to the (social) safety and well-being of pupils;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make every effort, in the shortest possible time, to ensure that reporting is extended on this point, and to notify the Court of Auditors of this before the budgetary procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-491]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many examples of school and teaching materials in which there are seemingly discriminatory and stigmatizing expressions based on origin, religion, gender or sexuality;]] [[considers that this may be contrary to the legal obligation of schools to ensure a safe learning environment and possibly to meet the core objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct an external and independent party to investigate the existence of discriminatory and stigmatising expressions in school and teaching materials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that, as far as the case under discussion is concerned, the education inspection carried out a regular check which did not identify the problems with regard to social security and the assignment of citizenship at the school;]] [[invites the Government, learner of this case, to examine with the educational inspection whether the mission of citizenship and social security in schools should be given more attention to regular checks and how this could be done, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-492]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-493]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This week I was reminded of the myth of Count Schimmelpenninck from 1900. He missed a vote because of the fall of his horse and could not vote against the Law of Learning. It was said then: the horse is wiser than the man. I think sometimes kids are smarter than their parents. I mean parents who, for example, sign an I.D. I do not think we should want that anymore; therefore the motion of SP and GroenLinks, which the Labour Party also participates in. I would ask your authority, Mr President, to table a motion in which something went wrong today. It's about the culture sector. Since we are on the OCW committee, I would like to retable that motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite reopening, the arts and culture sector suffers from low numbers of visitors and significant turnover losses and that this causes permanent damage;]] [[having regard to the Court's request to explore proposals for recovery in cooperation with the cultural and creative sectors and local authorities (Wuite et al, 32820, No. 424);]] [[noting that the outgoing government wants to leave the decision on a recovery plan to a new cabinet but the sector cannot wait for it;]] [[calls on the Government to present a longer-term recovery plan as soon as possible and to introduce it by 1 January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr De Hoop, Mr Ploumen, Mr Westerveld, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Wuite, Mr Kwint, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Haga, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-494]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u327	I understand there will be no appreciation of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u328	I need you to tell me what's going on here. I understand that this motion was put to the vote this afternoon. We have already voted on the subject of culture and corona. Now you're going to file the same motion again? You need to help me with this, because it's highly unusual.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u329	A number of things have gone wrong in the votes, so I am now asking on behalf of several political groups to put this motion back to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u330	It's completely out of the subject. Moreover, we have a minister here who is not about culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u331	That is why I also indicated that I did not consider an appreciation of this minister necessary. I'm asking for your coulance. If you have a point in the Rules of Procedure which states that this should not be done, I would be glad to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u332	I refer to Rule 8.15 of the Rules of Procedure, which simply states that you must stick to the subject. I'd like to read it to you. "Every speaker remains on the subject under discussion. If a speaker departs from the subject matter, the President shall call him back to the subject matter." That's what I'm doing here. This is completely out of order. We also have a minister who is not about this, so it is impossible for him to respond to this. The Minister shakes no. Mrs. Westerveld, will you help me through this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u333	Mr. Chairman. We have already had a debate on culture, so we know of the appreciation of that motion. Today something went wrong with the vote, so it didn't make it, but otherwise it would have made it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u334	What exactly went wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u335	That a group has not voted wrong, not our group, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u336	So we're sitting here with a recovery operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u337	There's a bit of a rush behind it because of a few deadlines that have to do with the expiry of aid packages, which is why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u338	Yes, but the fact that we had that debate yesterday and voted today was because there was a time pressure behind it. We're certainly not going to vote on that motion today, so you're late anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u339	Mr. Chairman. If I may make one more proposal, my proposal was not to vote on it today. If necessary, this can also be included in the votes on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u340	It has to be Tuesday, because we are not going to vote today at all. We also have a weekend. We're not gonna vote on the weekend either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u341	If that could be the coulance, the Chamber would appreciate it very much, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u342	It's not quite clear to me what the conclusion is now. Will you allow the submission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u343	Since this is completely out of order, I really need to table an order debate. I'd like to do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u344	My proposal would be not to do so and to see if, if necessary, there could be an appreciation from the minister who is going to do so before the votes on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u345	I'm going to suspend. I'm gonna go get in touch with the Registry. It's highly unusual. If we are going to introduce motions that have been rejected in another debate, every debate will be a huge chaos. Perhaps it will help if your group votes properly. That saves a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u346	That saves us a lot, we often suffer from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u347	That's just a small suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u348	Yes, we will. I always use the rule, and that's how I got old: you have rules and you have exceptions. We're not going to make a habit of it, but in this case, I support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u349	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u350	Mr. Chairman. I find it very strange, if you accidentally do something wrong and a vote falls out differently, you say: well, you know, I'll try again. I've been there before or I think I read that someone was accidentally absent somewhere and that because of that something did make it. Then the next day we didn't all come up with "I'm sorry, I'm here, I want to recount"? It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u351	Yeah, that's a basic objection, and I kind of share that. I'm gonna give the floor to several MPs and then I'm gonna suspend for a while to get in touch with the Registry. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u352	Mr. Chairman. I think it's exactly as you say. You're gonna be in complete chaos. I understand the wish and I also have some sympathy for it, but we simply shouldn't do this in a regulatory way. Then we need to find another way out of this impasse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u353	Mr. Chairman. I can't see at all what the consequences are right now. I agree with the wise words of Mr Peters of the CDA: it has happened many times. Bad luck is bad luck. Well, then there's got to be another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u354	Mr. Chairman. I have no objection to doing this, but I do think we should seal this up in regulations. In some situations, motions have been tuned by this type of error and they have not been given the opportunity to re-table them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u355	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u356	That's legal inequality, so I find it difficult, but I have no objection to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u357	I've heard Mrs Westerveld. It's gonna repeat itself, I think. I'll suspend for five minutes to get in touch with the Registry and I'll be right back with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u358	We're just talking about the motion. Is it the motion De Hoop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u359	It's recently the De Hoop motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u360	It's recently the De Hoop motion. Yeah, that'll get you into the Acts! Very cleverly done. My judgment is as follows. Listen and shudder. Mr. Beertema, Mr. Bishop. I am against this motion being tabled. I have already referred to Rule 8.15 of the Rules of Procedure, which summarizes 'Stay on subjects'. The second reason I am opposed to it is Article 8.20, with the heading of Motions, which states: 'The debate on motions shall take place during the debate on the subject on which the motion has been tabled (...)'. That is why I strongly oppose it. Of course, it's gonna be a good thing if we all re-table motions all day long. Then we'll keep going. And we already have way too many motions in this house. But I did not read Rule 8.20 (4) completely, because there is still something behind it, namely 'unless the Chamber decides otherwise'. My decision has just been not to do so, so not to submit the De Hoop motion. That is what I am going to lie down for, but the debinding condition is very simple: you can vote against my decision. It is therefore quite simple: if in this Chamber there is a majority in favour of tabling this motion, it will be tabled. I would like to hear from the various groups. So we do it by group and by seat. Mr Bertema therefore has 17 votes and so on. If there is a majority in favour of rejecting my proposal and still tabling the motion, it will be tabled. Everyone is welcome to express their views on a group basis. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u361	Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group supports your position. We are opposed to this, regardless of the subject matter. I'm not interested in the subject at all. This seems to me to be a lower limit that we cannot go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u362	Clear. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u363	Mr. Chairman. We are following your line and are therefore opposed to tabling this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u364	The motion for a resolution of the Party for Animals may be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u365	Clear. Thank you. Mr Peters, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u366	Mr. Chairman. We are opposed to tabling this motion. First of all, I didn't see it coming at all. It suddenly comes here without any consultation and without regard to the content of this debate. If we can do this, Mr. Chairman, we can do anything. Then I am not here, but then I come tomorrow and I say: If I had been there, she would have made it; I want a recount. Or I made a mistake a week later. Then you can just do anything. We shouldn't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u367	That's actually my point of view, too. Mrs. Paul.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u368	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is against filing this motion. We'll follow your line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u369	Mercy for justice. No objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u370	No objection, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u371	Let's not make it any more complicated than it is and just vote on this on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u372	No objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u373	I follow Mr Van Meenen's words in this particular case: mercy for justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u374	Mr President, I love mercy very much. Mr Van Meenen knows that. In principle, I would say 'we should not start with this', but for once the application of Article 5, let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u375	Aha! It's a very basic point of view. Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u376	Mr. Chairman. We have a bit of a problem with it, but we're not gonna lie in front of it, so no objection to filing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u377	Clear. We're pulling out for half an hour. We're gonna count the votes. Well, I'm gloriously voted away. Thank you for that. My weekend's a little messed up. No. So we're just gonna file the motion. It's the De Hoop motion, as it's called from now on. That's what we're gonna vote on Tuesday. That was your contribution right away, Mr. De Hoop? Thank you. You were immediately the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. The Minister used the time to look directly at the motions. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will deal with the motions that have been tabled. First of all, the motion in part No. 483 by Mr Van Meenen. I'd like to dissuade them. Why? I have already indicated that it is in the inspection policy that she is simply reporting if there is a suspicion of a criminal offence. That's really the title you need to report. And then there's "just" in quotes. If we want to achieve a reporting obligation, we also need to change the law. That is what should be done. But once again, it is now common policy to do so, if there is a suspicion of a criminal offence. Because that is, of course, always the title for achieving a reporting obligation. I therefore do not need to realize anything for them; it is their policy. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u379	One question, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u380	But the inspection isn't the state's attorney's office. In the case of social insecurity, it does not always have to be a criminal offence, but it can nevertheless be very unsafe. But whether it is or not, it's up to the state's attorney's office. There is therefore a reason to report, so that there are no unnecessary cases that could lead to prosecution. But that's why it says "reporting" in the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u381	But if I want to give the inspection orders now, it's gonna have to have a title. So that would mean we have to change the law. You know how long we've been working on that. We could discuss it in the evaluation of your own law or that should be part of it. But apart from that, the inspection has as its policy that if there is a suspicion of a criminal offence, it is simply a report. That is an autonomous competence and responsibility they have. You can't impose that from above. That is something they must do from their independence. That's why I advise against this motion, but I know what they're doing in practice. I think they proved that in this case, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u382	Okay, let's get to the motion on piece number one. 484.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u383	That motion is in line with what I have already said about it, but I am judging Chamber. The inspection has changed everything in this respect in connection with VMBO Maastricht. The motion in part No. 485 I take in conjunction with the motion in part No. 489. The motion in part No. 485 I advise, because it is really too general in that. In principle, a school can, of course, just write down its identity. This does not even have to be a school for special education; this also applies to public schools. The motion is actually asking for them to be banned from putting on paper who they are, what they want to convey. I would therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 489 I want to give judgment Chamber, because that is about rejecting identity. This also affects the discussion we had in November. I would, however, like to make the point that we should not go into cases about what is 'explicit' and 'implicit'. It is really up to the inspection to make the weighings. I say this in the direction of Mrs Gündoğan, who has tabled this motion. It is therefore up to the inspection to make that weighting, but with regard to rejecting one's identity, how one is, this motion is in line with the earlier motion that I believe has been adopted almost unanimously. So I'm giving this motion: Judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u384	Mr Kwint, briefly, pointy, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u385	I think there is a misunderstanding, because I am specifically talking about the declarations of identity to be signed by parents. That's what this is all about. It's not about a school vision or the identity that's on the website. It is specifically about the document to be signed by parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u386	This affects the debate on admission and what is or is not possible in it, including from our Constitution and legislation. So I think it is a little too far and too fast to do so by means of a motion in this way. So I advise against this motion. This is without prejudice to the fact that if you agitate the report that I have sent you, with the letter relating to admission policy, it can of course be discussed separately, and more carefully, I think. But I think that the disputed point is also in the motion in part No. 489 put. That's why I went over that in combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u387	Mrs Gündoğan on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 489.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u388	I have a very brief question for the Minister. Thanks for the appreciation "Judge Room." I would like a letter to the Chamber on how to implement it, so that we can also be informed about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u389	It may be a good thing to wait for the votes, but if this motion is adopted, you will of course get a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u390	Yes, this was a very optimistic interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u391	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 486 and 487. It was an omission on my part that I did not answer his question on how to deal with those affected by what has happened in recent years. We're talking to them. I even have a follow-up meeting with them. At their request, that was postponed for a while. They also wanted to hear this debate, I think. It's all pretty heavy for them, too. It's also about matters that concern their privacy. I would like to ask you both for the motion in part No. 486 if the motion in part No. 487 and I have talked to the people concerned about what they consider necessary and what they consider necessary. I shall, of course, inform your Chamber about this, within the limits that I leave to those concerned about what they want or do not want to share, also publicly. Perhaps even with the information I'm sending you about the Social Security Act, it might be part of it. May I ask the author to make the motions on items Nos. 486 and 487 until I finish the conversations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u392	That's a request to you, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u393	I'm not gonna hold them yet, but it's not Tuesday yet. Before then, maybe I will. I would like to discuss this with the group, but I get the point. I would indeed like to know at what time. The Minister says it depends on the talks, but is that going to take three months? Is it gonna take a month? Can you give any indication of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u394	The intention was even to have the next conversation this week. Because I've talked to them before. It's been postponed for a while, but we're trying to do it in the short term. If you do put the motions to the vote, I'll advise against both. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 488 I'd advise if I asked to apprehend her. That's just the judgment of the person who filed her. Why? I have just indicated to Mr Kwint how we are going to carry out further research. I believe that this has been a clear commitment towards the Chamber. Mr Kwint has also accepted it, because he has not tabled another motion for a resolution on it, but now another investigation is coming through. That, I think, is not conducive to keeping a bit of an eye on what we're doing. The second is that the new citizenship mission has been further translated into the supervisory framework that lies with you; we still need to talk about that. So hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u395	At the request of Mrs Gündoğan, I propose her motion (31289 No. 488). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u396	The motion in part No. 489 I've had. Then the motion to part No. 490. The point is that Mrs Westerveld also mentioned that commitments have already been made about this and that I also said that we would like to talk again. I think it is chic for a fellow Member of Parliament, but that is not what I am going to do, Mr President-in-Office, to withdraw the motion, because in principle it has already been dealt with here at the request of the Chamber, and my commitment is that I will bring it even further to the attention of the House, but it is up to the proposers. Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u397	I see no action from Mrs Gündoğan. Oh, she withdraws the motion in part No. 490 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u398	The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Then the question is whether you trust me sufficiently in my answer. I do not know whether I will be able to present this to you in full detail before the budget debate. I'll do my best. Whatever we know and can report, we'll report. Then I can give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u399	Judge Chamber, but you said in your own answer: I'll take it with me in the evaluation. If I knew in advance what was coming out of the evaluation, I would say: do it as soon as possible. So it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u400	What's all right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u401	That's because we're working on that right now. Then it could be part of that, but we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u402	But what's okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u403	To do it as soon as possible. That is to say, I want it for the budget. If that doesn't work...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u404	Judgment Room. I'm gonna do my best. Then I hope that there will be something so that you can discuss it further, but that cannot of course be a complete legislative amendment. It's not that fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u405	I have decided to hold the motions, with the request to the Minister that, if he has the discussions with those concerned, he should perhaps take them into account or involve them in those talks and inform us about them later. Then I can keep them until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u406	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motions (31289), Nos. 486 and 487). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u407	It's public information, so that will be part of the conversation. The motion in part No. Mr Van Baarle's 492 to start doing all kinds of independent and external research again, I do not recommend. I've been clear about the road that needs to be walked. I am always open to looking at this explicitly once again when there are very specific cases in schools where there is no way out of the school. So you know where to find us if you have back numbers, as I usually say in sports terms. Then the motion to part No. 493 by Mr Van Baarle. If it is put to the vote now, I would advise against her. Actually, I'd like to ask you to arrest her. The monitoring framework of the inspection provides for the formation of citizenship and the way in which the inspection is to monitor it. But that's with you. You're going to have a written round on that. I think it would be much more careful, when we talk about this, to look further into whether that is sufficient and whether there might be a need for more, but then we should have the debate with the Chamber first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u408	I am looking at Mr Van Baarle, but he is not responding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u409	No. Then I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u410	Then it has been dissuaded from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u411	Too bad, because it's a subject that's with you and we're still talking about. It is a pity that before we can have that conversation, we are already getting statements from the Chamber. Anyway, I obviously have to respect it when that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u412	That's right. Thank you very much, Minister, for your presence, answering the questions and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-11.u413	Next Tuesday we will be voting on the motions, including the constitutional crisis that caused Mr De Hoop today. But we got through that.
